2908
Volume 1
'  ILY  L                                  i ' 
I--'<;=
The World Bank
Annual Report
2002
Volume 1
THE WORLD BANK                  Year in Review



LQN@v d
THE WORLD BANK MISSION
TO FIGHT POVERTY WITH PASSION AND
PROFESSIONALISM FOR LASTING RESULTS.
TO HELP PEOPLE HELP THEMSELVES AND THEIR
ENVIRONMENT BY PROVIDING RESOURCES,
SHARING KNOWLEDGE, BUILDING CAPACITY,
AND FORGING PARTNERSHIPS IN THE PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE SECTORS.
TO BE AN EXCELLENT INSTITUTION ABLE TO
ATTRACT, EXCITE, AND NURTURE DIVERSE AND
COMMITTED STAFF WITH EXCEPTIONAL SKILLS
WHO KNOW HOW TO LISTEN AND LEARN.



World Bank Headquarters
in Washington, D C
~'E
Contents
Message from the Chairman                               2
The Board of Executive Directors                        5
The World Bank Group                                    8
Chapter 1 Meeting the Poverty Challenge: The World Bank's
Goals and Strategies                                     11
|   Chapter 2  Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  23
About the cover: Education shapes the        Chapter 3  Development Effectiveness                     43
future of people and nations. Yet 113 mil-
lion children around the world-most of       Chapter 4  Thematic Perspectives                         59
them girls-do not go to school. In fiscal      Addressing the Social, Institutional, and Economic
2002 the Education for All agenda gained        Dimensions of Poverty                                 60
considerable momentum, with the World         Investing in People                                     63
Bank at the forefront of global efforts to  S  Promoting Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
give every girl and boy, by 2015, an oppor-     Development
tunity to complete a free primary school       Supporting Private Sector Development and Infrastructure  70
Building Strong Financial Systems                      74
education of good quality.                     Promoting the Rule of Law                              77
Chapter 5  Regional Perspectives                         81
Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility        82
Note                                           Africa                                                 84
This is the first of two volumes that will be  East Asia and Pacific                                  89
distributed as a set. The complete Manage-     South Asia                                             93
ment's Discussion and Analysis, audited finan-  Europe and Central Asia                               98
cial statements of the International Bank for  Er    era Cntra asia    e98
Reconstruction and Development, audited        Latn America and the Carbbean                         103
financial statements of the International De-  Middle East and North Africa                          108
velopment Association, and appendixes are
published in a separate volume as The World  Chapter 6  About the World Bank                         115
Bank Annual Report 2002: Volume 2, Finan-
cial Statements and Appendixes. This Annual   Index                                                  168
Report is also available on the Internet at    List of Boxes, Figures, and Tables                    170
www.worldbank.org.                             Select World Bank Publications                        172
All dollar amounts used in this Annual Report  List of Part I and Part II IDA Member Countries       173
are current U.S. dollars unless otherwise      World Bank Web Sites                                  174
specified.                                     Abbreviations and Acronyms                            176



Message from the President of the World Bank and
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors
_.            ~     ~     ~      ~      ~~ r               -n --
-A   A~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ I' wg n;t__|I I.
It                -                           -a
L
During hs vst to Kabu n May to reopen the Word Bank office, James D Wolfensohn meets worke and views
progress on the Global Distance Learning Center which is being funded under the Emergency Education Rehabilitation
and Development Project
A NEW GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR                         Developing countries recognize that they must
DEVELOPMENT                                       commit to good governance and sound policies, build-
ing the conditions for investment and empowering
As a result of the events of the past year, more people  their people in the development process. They have
than ever before have come to realize that no wall  pledged to use aid funds to build human capacity,
divides rich and poor nations. There are not two  focusing on education and health programs. They have
worlds. There is only one. And in this world, poverty  pledged to fight the corruption that drains resources
is our collective enemy. This has been a year of tremen-  away from productive activities. They have taken the
dous challenges. But it has also been a period of reach-  initiative to identify priorities and generate their
ing out, of standing together, a time of commitment to  own development policies while representing all con-
shared goals.                                     stituencies, including women and the disadvantaged,
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) rep-   in the process. The development community is com-
resent an expanded vision of development with essen-  mitted to increasing the quantity and effectiveness
tial objectives, including halving world poverty by  of its support to developing countries as they move
2015. At the International Conference on Financing for  forward in these areas.
Development in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002,     Developed countries acknowledge that they must
the international community committed itself anew  provide more and better aid, improve policy coherence,
to achieving the goals. It formed a new global    and, critically, move forward on trade policies in sup-
partnership-the Monterrey Consensus-that marks    port of development. In particular, it is essential to
an important watershed in its aspirations to achieve  address policies that limit markets for developing
the MDGs. Both developing and developed countries  countries'products. Without greater access to global
will play important roles.                        markets and the growth in trade that follows, many
2       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



developing countries will be severely constrained, not  this approach will increasingly broaden to embrace
r ealizing their potential for investment, private sector  national parliaments, civil society, and the private
growth, job creation, and sustainably higher incomes.  sector. Country-led comprehensive processes enable
We in the developrnent community are all agreed  clients to do an increasingly good job of setting clear
that the essential conditions to foster successful devel-  priorities for policies and actions needed to deliver
opment include education and health programs that  faster growth and poverty reduction. In each case,
build human capacity; an effective system for infra-  these priorities will need to reflect the country's unique
structure provision; good and clean government; effec-  circumstances and needs and will often go beyond
tive legal and judicial systems; and well organized and  political cycles.
supervised financial systems.
The Monterrey Consensus was a historic step for-  FOCUS ON POVERTY REDUCTION AND
ward. At last developing countries saw the promise of  IMPROVEMENTS IN EDUCATION
a turnaround in the access to trade and in the volume
of aid, as an additional $12 billion was pledged by  This year the Bank has played a leading role in reliev-
donor countries over the next three years. The chal-  ing poor countries of debt in order to increase their re-
lenge before us now is to translate the new global  sources for poverty reduction. Twenty-six countries are
development partnership into action, redoubling our  now benefiting from the Heavily Indebted Poor Coun-
efforts on the part of developing countries and the  tries (HIPC) Initiative, amounting to about $41 billion
broader international community.                 from all creditors in nominal debt service relief over
What matters most is results. Over the past decades,  time. Five more countries will soon be receiving relief
impressive gains have been made in many countries in  under this program. Together with other forms of re-
life expectancy, literacy, and poverty reduction. Because  lief, HIPC cuts the total external debt in these countries
of better policies in developing countries, together with  by two-thirds. These countries can now spend between
improved performance-based allocation in recent  three and four times more per year on key social in-
years, aid is more effective today at reducing poverty  vestments, such as education and health, than on debt
than ever before. But there is more to be done. With  service requirements.
good results, we can open the door to increased re-  Education is at the heart of poverty reduction. At
sources for fighting poverty. Both developing and de-  its Spring Meetings this year, the Development Com-
veloped countries are now in a position to take the next  mittee of the World Bank Group specifically endorsed
steps toward achieving the Millennium Development  an Action Plan for accelerating progress toward Educa-
Goals.                                           tion for All (EFA), which aims to provide every girl and
Essential to those steps is the need for developing  boy with quality primary school education by 2015.
countries to use the new resources committed at  The case for faster progress toward this goal is clear:
Monterrey effectively. Donors should harmonize their  113 million children of elementary school age in devel-
lending policies and procedures, and untie aid, so that  oping countries have either never set foot in a class-
borrowing countries are not mired in unnecessary  room or dropped out of school shortly after enrolling.
requirements and reports, and can obtain resources  The Bank has subsequently invited 18 countries to join
more efficiently. Donors should also commit to helping  an Education for AB Fast Track and is working with 5
developing countries build capacity in government,  other countries to qualify them for the program. This is
business, and communities, listening to their expressed  an initiative designed to help developing countries
priorities.                                      meet the 2015 education goal. Many more countries
The Monterrey Consensus is in line with the devel-  are expected to benefit from this initiative in the
opment strategy that the World Bank Group has been  months and years to come.
progressively pursuing in recent years. The Bank's  We must continue to increase resources for poverty
knowledge resources, based on more than fifty years  reduction in the poorest countries, for which IDA re-
of development experience, have played a vital role.  mains the largest source of concessional financing.
There is now a broad acceptance of the Comprehensive  Its catalytic role can now be even greater with the
Development Framework and Poverty Reduction Strat-  13th Replenishment of IDA (IDA13), which stresses
egy Papers by low-income countries and our develop-  working with other development partners and a strong
ment partners. I believe that country ownership of  focus on results. IDA 13 represents an 18 percent
The World Bank Annual Report 2002  3



increase over IDA 12, and reconfirms the commitmenit  Bank's considerable knowledge resources we can assist
of IDA donors to addressing the goals highlighted in  our development partners and client countries in iden-
Monterrey. The increased grant funding within IDA is  tifying successful poverty reductioni efforts and in c.ar-
especially welcome and we are grateful to the donors  rying them out on a wider scale. I am especiallv grate-
for this new development.                         ful to the management and staff of our World Banik
In the past year, the World Bank Group has devel-  Group for their selfless efforts.
oped and communicated its strategy, approach, and    In a changed world, the new partnership of nations
priorities, and established many of the procedures and  can make the difference in the lives of poor people. The
tools needed to translate those broad directions into  time for action is now. The opportunity is here. We
concrete actions that can be monitored. With our   must stand firm in our fight against poverty and aim to
strategy established, our focus will continue to be on  achieve a drastic reduction of it in our lifetime, for the
implementation. We will work to scale up our impact  sake of our children. We must commit ourselves to a
because of the scale and urgency of the global poverty  poverty-free and inclusive world with renewed vigor.
challenge. Where the Bank has been successful in the
past, we know that country leadership and our strong
partners in development have played importanit parts.
We will continue to work with our partners to find
more effective ways to help clients formiulate their poli-
cies and build institutions. By sharing and applying the  James D. Wolfensohn
4       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



The Board of Executive Directors
.~~~~~~~~~~~~
From left to right (standing) Tom Scholar Luis Antonio Baduino, Neil Francis Hyden, Mohamed K Amr * Pieter Stek, Pierre Duquesne, Eckhardt
Biskup, * Pietro Veghio, Finn Jonck, Mano Soto-Platero, Girmai Abraham, Yuzo Harada, Abdul Aziz Mohd Yaacob, Bassary Toure, Emin Dedeoglu,
(seated) Zhu Guangyao, Yahya A M Alyahya, Carole Brookins, Balmiki Prasad Singh, Sharon Weber, * Helena Cordeiro, * Ahmed Sadoudi
*Altemate (some directors or alternates were not available for this photograph)
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct  is played by the Operations Evaluation Department
of the World Bank's general operations and perform    (OED), which is accountable directly to the Board
their duties under powers delegated by the Board of   to perform evaluations as set out in OED's Board-
Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement,  approved policies, strategies, and work program. OED
5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by the  provides independent advice to the Board on the rele-
member countries having the largest number of shares;  vance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of
the rest are elected by the other member countries,   operations. During fiscal 2002 the Executive Directors
which form constituencies in an election process con-  regularly met at Bank headquarters to carry out their
ducted every two years.                               responsbilities. Directors also serve on one or more
Executive Directors consider and decide on IBRD    of five standing committees: Audit, Budget, Develop-
loan and guarantee proposals and IDA credit and guar-  ment Effectiveness, Personnel, and Executive Directors'
antee proposals made by the President, and they decide  Administrative Matters. The committees help the
on policies that guide the Bank's general operations.  Board discharge its oversight responsibilities through
They are also responsible for presenting to the Board  in-depth examinations of policies and practices.
of Governors, at the Annual Meetings, an audit of        Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Direc-
accounts, an administrative budget, and an annual     tors also periodically visit borrowing countries to re-
report (this report) on the Bank's operations and poli-  view Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide
cies as well as other matters. In shaping Bank policy,  range of people, including project managers, benefici-
the Board of Executive Directors (the Board) takes into  aries, and government officials, as well as nongovern-
account the evolving perspectives of member countries  mental organizations, the business community, other
on the role of the Bank Group as well as the Bank's op-  development partners, financial institutions, and
erational experience. In this regard, an important role  resident Bank staff. This year, Directors visited the
The World Bank Annual Report 2002      5



European Union in Brussels, and also Algeria, the Arab  nary, 3 Decision Point,' and 4 Completion Point2 doc-
Republic of Egypt, and the Islamic Republic of Iran.  uments) and considered a number of joint Bank-Fund
Directors also play an active role in preparing the  papers, including "HIPC Initiative: Status of Imple-
agenda and issues papers for the semiannual meetings  mentation"; "HIPC Initiative: Completion Point Con-
of the joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund  siderations"; "External Debt Management in HIPC
(Bank-Fund) Development Committee. In fiscal 2002   Countries"; and "Actions to Strengthen the Tracking of
the Development Committee addressed the World        Poverty-Reducing Public Spending in HIPCs." The
Bank's response to the events of September 11, 2001,  Board's poverty reduction work was heavily influenced
for low- and middle-income countries, the U.N. con-  by the determination to spur progress in achieving the
ference on Financing for Development, development   Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), with the ob-
effectiveness, education for dynamic economies, and a  jective of halving world poverty levels by the year 2015.
number of other issues including heavily indebted
poor countries (HIPC), anti-money-laundering activi-  Country Programs
ties, and harmonization of multilateral development  Country assistance strategies (CASs) remained the
banks' (MDBs') operational policies and procedures.  cornerstone of Bank Group work at the individual
(See appendix 13 in volume 2 of this Annual Report.)  client level, including the Comprehensive Development
Framework (CDF) principles of ownership, partner-
STRATEGIC ISSUES                                    ship, and a focus on results. The Board reviewed
34 CASs and CAS products during the fiscal year.
The major areas of Board emphasis during the fiscal  Periodic meetings of the CDF Learning Group dealt
year are highlighted below.                          with issues such as selectivity and alignment. The
Board also participated in ongoing work on refining
Strategic Framework                                  and modernizing the Bank's lending and nonlending
The Board's work during fiscal 2002 was based heavily  instruments, and provided guidance on a number
on the Strategic Framework and Strategic Directions  of papers in this area, including design features for
Papers discussed in fiscal 2001, and reflected recent  the Deferred Drawdown Option for use with IBRD
progress in aligning Bank Group strategies and policies  adjustment loans for middle-income IBRD member
with its core poverty reduction objective. Directors also  countries.
reviewed a Strategy Update Paper for fiscal 2003-05
focusing on implementation of the Bank's Strategic   Global Programs and Partnerships
Framework. Within this context they reviewed a num-  The Bank Group continued to strengthen cooperation
ber of Sector Strategy Papers designed to help define  with the International Monetary Fund (the Fund, or
the Bank's role in poverty reduction at the sector level,  IMF), other MDBs, and the U.N. system, while increas-
including strategies for the environment, gender, infor-  ing its outreach to civil society. Directors also took an
mation and communication technologies, and private   active role in considering priorities in relationships
sector development.                                  with other development partners. Collaboration with
the IMF was especially prominent in the work on
The Bank Group's Role in Poverty Reduction           PRSPs and the HIPC Initiative, as well as the work on
The Board continued to closely monitor implemen-
tation of the Bank's poverty reduction mandate. It
considered seven Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers  1. Decisioni point: The point at which the international communLity
(PRSPs) and nine interim PRSPs, and they reviewed    agrees-for countries with unsustainable debt levels and a solid
three PRSP Progress Reports, pointing out areas where  record on econiomic reform and poverty reduction programs-
on the amount of relief needed to reduce outstanding debt to a sus-
further refinement would be useful. In addition, Direc-  tainable level. Multilateral creditors, including IDA, begin provid-
tors discussed a joint Bank-Fund comprehensive       ing significant "interim assistance" beginning immediately at the
Review of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)  decision point.
Approach. Meanwhile, the Board continued to focus    2. Completion point: The point at which all creditors provide, uncon-
ditionally, the remainder of their share of debt relief agreed on at
attention on the enhanced HIPC Initiative. They con-  the decision point. The completion point is tied to implementation
sidered 11 HIPC documents (comprising 4 Prelimi-     of key reforms and policies outlined in a country's PRSP
6       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



debt sustainability and public sector management. This  reimbursements, and included $176.9 million for the
included a joint Bank-Fund paper on strengthening  Development Grant Facility. The administrative budget
Bank-Fund collaboration on country programs and  represented a 4.6 percent real increase over the fiscal
conditionality, and a paper on enhancing operational  2001 budget. In June 2002 the Executive Directors ap-
coordination on financial sector issues. Work was also  proved a total administrative budget, net of reimburse-
carried out with other MDBs and bilateral aid agencies  ments, of $1,672.6 million for fiscal 2003.
on the harmonization of operational policies and pro-
cedures culminating in a"Progress Report on the Har-  INSPECTION PANEL
monization of Policies, Procedures, and Practices."
In addition, the Board approved key recommenda-  The Board created an independent Inspection Panel
tions in a review of the Bank's policy on information  in 1993 to address more closely the concerns of people
disclosure, which was drafted in close consultation  affected by Bank projects and to ensure that the Bank
with clients and civil society. Board members were  adheres to its operational policies and procedures in
heavily involved in preparations for the March 2002  the design, preparation, and implementation of proj-
U.N. conference, Financing for Development, which  ects. Any group of individuals who believe they may be
addressed issues such as the role of the MDGs,   harmed by a Bank-supported project may ask the Panel
strengthening the conditions for investment and  to investigate complaints that such harm stems from
growth, promoting the integration of developing coun-  the Bank's failure to abide by its policies and proce-
tries into the international trading system, the  dures. The Executive Directors decide, on the recom-
importance of enhancing development assistance   mendation of the Panel, whether an investigation will
flows, and the challenge of cooperation and coor-  take place.
dination among donors to reduce the transaction     In fiscal 2002 the Inspection Panel received three
costs of aid. Directors also took an active interest in  new Requests for Inspection relating to (a) the Uganda:
progress on refining the Bank's knowledge strategy  Third Power Project and the later approved Bujagali
and establishment of the Development Gateway     Hydropower Project, for which the Board approved an
Foundation.                                      investigation; (b) the Papua New Guinea: Governance
Promotion Adjustment Loan, for which the Panel did
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY           not recommend an investigation; and (c) the Paraguay:
Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsi-  Sectors, and the Argentina: SEGBAV Power Distribu-
bility on behalf of its shareholders, in part through  tion Project, for which the Panel registered the Request
its Audit Committee. The Committee reviewed its  for Inspection.
terms of reference to reflect the evolving scope and  The Board considered the Panel Investigation Re-
responsibilities of audit committees' roles in risk  port and the Bank management recommendations on
management. The Committee advises the Board on   the Uganda Bujagali Project, and approved manage-
financial management and other governance issues  ment's recommendations to address the Panel's find-
to facilitate Board decisions on financial policy and  ings. In addition to the Uganda investigation, the Panel
control issues.                                  is conducting two other investigations, approved by the
Board, which relate to Requests for Inspection received
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET                            in fiscal 2001 concerning (a) the Chad Petroleum De-
velopment and Pipeline Project, and (b) the India Coal
The administrative budget for fiscal 2002, reviewed  Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project.
by the Budget Committee and approved by the      Twenty-six requests have been filed since the establish-
Executive Directors, was $1,589.7 million, net of  ment of the Panel.
The World Bank Annual Report 2002  7



The World Bank Group
The World Bank Group,                The International Bank for          The International Development
Reconstruction and Development      Association
with a missio'n to fight
with a missior~i to fight            Established 1945 *  183 memiibers   Establishied 1960 * 162 members
CuIMulative lending: S371 billion    CuLImulative leInding: $135 billion
poverty and improve                  Fiscal 2002 lendinlg: $1 1.5 billion for  Fiscal 2002 lenidinig: $8.1 billioin for
-.iving standards for               96 new operations in 40 countries    133 new operations in 62 countries
people in the develop-
ing world, is among the
world's leading devel-          -     -
opment institutions. It                    ____         _ _1
provides loans, policy
advice, technical assis-            !      d                                                      A   ..
tance, and knowledge-                                                     -      -
The Turkey Marmara Earthquake Emergency Re-  IDA finances improvements in the quality of
*sha ring services. I B RD           construction (MEER) Project set a new standard  and access to basic services in education, health
for delivery of natural disaster intervention that  care, clean water, and sanitation. This culvert is
al n d I DA-to!g eth e r, the        wbalances reconstruction and recovery activities  being constructed under the IDA-funded feeder
and..IDA-together, the     ~with disaster risk mitigation and emergency  road project in Zambia,
preparedness efforts The MEER team received
"Wo rld Bank "-are                  the 200 t President's Award for Excellence.
owned by member                      IBRD aims to reduce poverty in      Contributions to IDA enable the
-           middle-income and creditworthy       World Bank to provide $7 billion to
countries that carry                 poorer coulitries by promoting      $8 billion per year in interest-free
sustainiable development throuigh    credits to the world's 79 poorest
ultimate decision-                   loans, guarantees, and nonlenid-    countries, home to 2.5 billion peo-
ing-includinig analytical and advi-  ple. This support is vital because
making power. The                   sorv-services. IBRD does not         these counitries have little or no ca-
-maximize profit but has earned a   pacity to borrow on market terms.
-World Bank Group                    net income each year since 1948.    In most of these countries, the vast
Its incomile funds several develop-  majoritv of people live on less than
today consists of five               menital activities and ensures finani-  $2 a day, and 4 out of 10 people
cial strength, which enables low-    survive on less than $1 a day.
closely associated                   cost borrowings in capital markets     IDA is financed by a partner-
and good terms for borrowing         ship of donors who come together
institutions.                       clients.                             every three years to agree on the
IBRD's 24-member Board           resources required to fuLid IDA's
represents all 183 members and       lendinig program and to determine
is made up of 5 appointed and        the policy objectives that guide
19 elected Executive Directors.     IDA's activities.
The World Bank Annual Report 2002



The International Finance              The Multilateral Investment             The International Centre for
Corporation                            Guarantee Agency                        Settlement of Investment
Disputes
Established 1956 *  175 members        Established 1988 U  157 members
Committed portfolio: $21.6 billion (in-  Cumulative guarantees issued:         Established 1966 *  134 members
cludes $6.5 billion in syndicated loans)  $10.34 billion                       Total cases registered: 103
Fiscal 2002 commitmiients: $3.6 billion  Fiscal 2002 guaranitees issued:       Fiscal 2002 cases registered: 16
in 204 projects in 75 countries        $1.36 billion'
OW.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
IFC's Mekong Project Development Facility  An employee of a MIGA-backed bottling com-  A highway construction project in Morocco is
assisted this locally owned small business in  pany in Brazil weighs recyclables brought to  being arbitrated at ICSID.
Vietnam in developing strong management  school by students.
practices that are critical to its commercial
success.
lFC promotes economic develop-         MIGA helps encourage foreign in-        ICSID helps to encourage foreign
ment through the private sector.       vestment in developing countries        investment by providing interna-
Working with business partners,        by providing guarantees to foreign      tional facilities for conciliation and
IFC invests in sustainable private     investors against losses caused by      arbitration of investment disputes,
enterprises in developing countries    noncommercial risks, such as ex-        in this way helpilg to foster an
without accepting government           propriation, currency inconvertib-      atmosphere of mutual confidence
guarantees. It provides equity, long-  ility and transfer restrictions, war    between states and foreign in-
term loans, loan guarantees, risk      and civil disturbance, or breach of     vestors. Many international agree-
management products, and advi-         contract. In addition, MIGA pro-        ments concerning investment refer
sory services to its clients. IFC seeks  vides technical assistance to help   to ICSID's arbitration facilities.
to reach businesses in regions and     countries disseminate information       ICSID also has research and pub-
countries that otherwise would         on investment opportunities. The        lishing activities in the areas of
have limited access to capital. IFC    agency also provides investment         arbitration law and foreign invest-
provides finance in markets            dispute mediation services upon         ment law.
deemed too risky by commercial         request.
investors in the absence of IFC par-
ticipation and adds value to the
projects it finances through its cor-
porate governance, environmental,       1. Includes $136 millioni leveraged through
and social expertise.                  the Cooperative Underwriting Program.
The World Bank Annual Report 2002         9






#S->-2 ~ ~ *S -*'* 
F@I.,,  q<  S %\ :;  Chapter
o       l1lSW . Meeting the Poverty Challenge:
The World Bank's Goals and Strategies
boo mD& Ay AQ= OaOnO1j
xaXC~~H~i~L3    0
$Fs~ ,~7IL
&    >~~ '0  S- 0
i   ag~Q~J
4 b   g&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Chapter 1
Meeting the Poverty Challenge:
The World Bank's Goals and Strategies
Nearly halj of tile world's 6 billionr pcople live otn less  This year in particular, world leaders recognized
thiani $2 a day; one-fifti--1.2 billioni-live oni less than711  that such poverty must be addressed in the interests
$1 a day.                                          of the world comml1un_ity, wvorld peace, and security.
The World Baank is an internationial organizationl  Attacking poverty in poor coulitries is one of the
of more than 180 member coulitries. Its missioni is to  greatest challenges facing the global development
fight global poverty, and it uses its resources and col-  community as the world moves into the 21 st century.
laborates with others to help client countries achieve
sustainable and equitable growth.                 THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Despite significant progrcss in the past few decades,
far too many people in the developing world still  In recognitioni of the enormous challenge of global
subsist at income levels insufficient to meet basic  poverty, the international development comimiunity
human needs. The poor lack opportunity. They lack  has, since 1990, adopted specific targets for poverty
voice. They are vulnerable to sickness, violence, and  reduction, nlow knowni as the Millenniumi) Develop-
natural disasters. They lack such basic services as  ment Goals (MDGs). TIhese goals, which have been
education, primary health care, and access to drink-  embraced by the World Bank and which provide a
ing water. Their life expectancy is still a fraction of  focus for its developmenit programils, are:
that achieved by people in industrial countries
decades ago. There are far too many children, par-  Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hLlnger
ticularly girls, not in school and thus facing a bleak  Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education
future.                                           Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower womIen
GOAL 2                         GOAL 3                          GOAL 4
es¶w:.tsi;             Achieve universal                *ss0TIR                        .UEUS
equality and                   mortality



Goal 4: Reduce child mortality                   1990s average of 1.8 percent. Under this scenario of
Goal 5: Improve maternal health                  robust growth, the incidenice of those living on less
Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases  thani $1 a day could fall to 12 percent and their absolute
Goal 7: Ensure environmliental sustainiability   numbers could drop to about 750 million by 2015.
Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development  Even then, many countries would still not reach the
goal. In Africa, for example, the incidenice of poverty
The Banik's store of development knowledge plays  would only fall to 39 percent and the number of poor
an importanit role as it expands its efforts to help  would increase to 345 million, compared with 240 mil-
couLntries achieve the MDGs. Informationi on suc-  lion in 1990 and 300 million in 1999.
cessful approaches and projects in low- and middle-  Recent research has shown that aid works best when
income countries is shared across the Bank and   a coulntry's overall policy and expenditure framework
with clients, and can lead to successful replication  is appropriate, its institutions are strong, its private sec-
elsewhere.                                       tor is vibrant, and its government and people together
Progress toward the M DGs is discussed in     are strongly commllitted to reform. 'I'here is also a clear
chapter 3.                                       recognition of the multidimiienisionial nature of poverty
and the interdependencies among the MDGs. The
THE WORLD BANK'S PRIORITIES                      Bank recognizes that two important engines of eco-
FOR POVERTY REDUCTION                            nomic groNvth that will benefit the poor are the private
sector and poor people themselves. As a result the
The trends in poverty indicators have challenged the  Bank's strategic priorities are based on two pillars:
Bank and the wider development community to reflect  building the climate for investment, jobs, and sustain-
on what has worked and what has not in the support of  able growth; and investing in poor people and empow-
developing countries' poverty reduction efforts. Devel-  ering them to participate in development. In addition,
oping countries need to grow rapidly in order to make  the Bank recognizes that some of the most pressing de-
a significant reduction in poverty and achieve the  velopment concernis reach across country boundaries
MDGs. The Bank's Global Ecotnioic Prospects 2002  and must be addressed on a worldwide scale through
shows that the target of halving dire income poverty by  internationally coordinated efforts. Dealing with the
2015 can be met only if the average per capita gross  maniy urgent global priorities, such as the provision of
domestic product growth rate for developing countries  global public goods, will require better management
can be sustained at 3.6 percent a year, or twice the  and finanicing of cross-cutting issues.
0^£                        GOAL 6                        GOAL7 7
117-ItMlSiEl       Combat HIV/AIDS,               Ensure                         6i.IT;             1
malaria, and                   environmental                  a.
other diseases                 sustainability                 [     1     I I



Building the Climate for Investment, jobs,         in global and regional trade negotiations. At the na-
and Sustainable Growth                             tional level, activities are aimed at helping developing
The Bank helps clients to enhance investor confidence  countries harness trade by integratinig pro-poor re-
and private investment, both domestic and foreign. It  forms into their national development and poverty
supports rural and urban development, the building of  reductioni strategies. (See box 1.1, Globalization and
effective infrastructure, financial sector reforms, regu-  Irade.) Informiiationi and knowledge priorities include
latory reforms, and competition policies. Financial sec-  redressing the digital divide aild equipping countries
tor reforms promote stability, transparency, access, and  with the capacity to access knowledge, and promoting
competition. In addition, the Bank supports measures  the understaniding of development and poverty reduc-
to improve public sector governance as a necessary  tion. Financial architecture includes developing inter-
condition to the engagement of the private sector in  national standards, financial stability, and interniational
economic growth. Improved governance focuses on the  accouLnting and legal frameworks.
rule of law and anticorruption efforts, public adminis-
tration and civil service reform, and judicial reform.  POVERTY REDUCTION AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL
Investing in Poor People and Empowering Them       The Bank's approach to poverty reduction is tailored to
to Participate in Development                      each country's particular needs. The country busilless
The Bank recognizes that the MDGs can be achieved  model is centered on1 the country's vision, a good
only through the empowerment of poor people as par-  diagnosis of the policies proposed, a Bank program to
ticipants in development. Engaging poor people in the  support the vision, and a focus on results. It translates
development process leads to more effective and vital  into specific approaches to support low- and middle-
poverty reduction efforts. Gender mainstreaming, civic  income countries.
engagement, and social risk management are priority   In this regard, the Bank's corporate advocacy priori-
areas. The Bank recognizes both education and health  ties are critical enablers of poverty reduction, translat-
programs as essential to empowerment efforts. Activi-  ing the two pillars into action at the country level. The
ties in education focus on access to education for all  priorities include a focus on the investmiienit climate
and on building human capacity for the knowledge   anid public sector governance; empowermcnit, security,
economy. Health activities focus on maternal and child  and social inclusion; education; and health. The Bank
health care, access to clean water, and sanitation.  builds awareness of these priorities and shares kniowl-
edge with clients, developmenit partners, and other
GLOBAL PRIORITIES                                  stakeholders.
The Bank addresses global issues where common      Low-Income Countries
action can alleviate adverse conditions that all develop-  The Bank's task of poverty reduction is particularly
ing countries share. Five areas requiring specific atten-  challenging in low-income countries, where the inci-
tion are communicable diseases, the environment,   dence of poverty is highest, the institutional constraints
trade and integration, information and knowledge, and  are most severe, the policy environment is most hostile
international financial architecture. Communicable  to private investment, and access to resources is most
disease priorities include fighting human immunodefi-  limited. Bank programs in these countries emphasize
ciency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome   country ownership of development priorities.
(HIV/AIDS), tuberculosis, malaria, and childhood      The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
diseases, as well as promoting vaccines and drug   approach is a major recent addition to the global effort
development to combat major communicable diseases.  to attack poverty based on nationally owned strategies
Environmental priorities include addressing climate  for poverty reduction that serve as a framework for de-
change, access to water, protection of forests, biodiver-  velopment assistance. The approach is founded on the
sity, ozone depletion, and land degradation; and pro-  principles underlying the Comprehensive Develop-
moting agricultural research. Trade activities aspire to  ment Framework-that is, PRSPs are to be country
help make the world trading system more conducive to  driven, results oriented, comprehensive, long-term in
development by promoting market access by develop-  perspective, and designed to foster strong domestic and
ing countries and fostering their effective participation  external partnerships.
14      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Ownership means that PRSPs are prepared by the     Poverty Reduction Support Credits have been intro-
countries themselves, relying on broad-based participa-  duced to provide targeted support in line with coun-
tory processes and reflecting countries' unique circum-  tries' strategic priorities for poverty reduction. Bilateral
stances and needs. It is recognized, however, that many  and other multilateral donors are increasingly support-
poor countries need time to prepare full PRSPs; there-  ing the concept of aligning their assistance programs
fore, interim PRSPs, or I-PRSPs, with a relatively sim-  with country-owned poverty reduction strategies. (See
ple format, have been introduced to avoid holding up  also Special Assistance in Fiscal 2002 in chapter 2.)
the countries' access to concessional assistance (no-
interest loans) and debt relief. Once prepared, PRSPs  Low-Income Countries under Stress
are expected to be living documents, revised every few  The Bank has recognized the need to identify a more
years in light of experience. Whenever an I-PRSP or  effective approach to those low-income countries with
full PRSP is prepared, the Executive Boards of the Bank  chronically weak performance indicators, either where
and the Fund review its suitability as a sound basis for  it has had limited engagement in the last decade or
concessional lending (and, where appropriate, debt  where its traditional instruments have not been suc-
relief), supported by a Joint Staff Assessment prepared  cessful. In fiscal 2002 a task force set out to identify the
by Bank and Fund staff. Poor countries have responded  key distinguishing characteristics of these countries
positively to the approach, recognizing that PRSPs  and to propose a suitable combination of instruments
are their documents expressing their priorities. (See  for the Bank to use in support of their development
chapter 4, box 4. 1.)                              priorities.
BOX 1.1 GLOBALIZATION AND TRADE
Globalization-the growing integration of economies  general, these countries have seen negative growth
and societies around the world resulting from in-  and rising poverty. Clearly, helping countries that want
creased flows of trade, capital, people, and ideas-  to integrate with the global economy is an important
remains one of the mbst debated issues of our time.  task for the World Bank Group.
The World Bank has made important contributions to
the discussion of globalization in the areas of research  Investment Climate
and ideas. In fiscal 2002 the Bank published the Policy  Two of the research findings from the Bank's work
Research Report Globalization, Growth, and Poverty:  on globalization have shed light on crucial tasks that
Building an Inclusive World Economy The report sum-  would enable more poor countries to participate in
marized the findings of a large-scale Bank research  and benefit from globalization. This has helped.
program on the various dimensions of globalization.  sharpen the institution's strategic focus. The first issuer
The study found no evidence that there is growing  is the improvement of the investment climate. Many
inequality within the ,typical developing country that  developing countries have carried out first-generation
is opening up to the global economy. In fact, some of  reforms, including liberalization of formal trade poli-.:
the fastest-growing locations in the world are places  cies. The locations that benefit the most from these re-
in the developing world that were extremely poor   forms are those that have reasonably good investment
,20 years ago but that have made serious efforts to inte-  climates: a regulatory environment in which firms can
grate with the world "market. Bangladesh, China, India,  start up, increase productivity, and expand; efficient
Uganda, and Vietnamri are all examples of globalizing  public services, such as customs administration; and
developing countries.that have experienced unprece-  complementary infrastructure, such as power, ports,
dented poverty reduction. On the other hand, many  and telecommunications-services that can be provided
low-income countries!are actually less integrated into  by the private sector given a proper legal and regula-
the world economy t%riay than 20 years ago, and in  tory framework.
(Box 1.1 continues on the following page.)



BOX 1.1 (continued)
Recognizing the importance of good investment  from developing countries, though low, are four times
environments, the Bank Group has started a large-scale  those collected from industrial-countries. Subsidies and
effort to help developing countries assess their invest-  other support to agriculture in the high-income coun-
ment climates and the impact of specific bottlenecks  tries are now running roughly $1 billion a day, or more
through surveys of private firms, and to analyze the  than six times all development assistance worldwide.
impact of different bottlenecks on productivity. The  The Bank's research has highlighted the cost to
Bank's Private Sector and Infrastructure Network and  developing countries of Organisation for Economic
its Development Economics Group have started a joint  Co-operation and Development protection of textiles
Investment Climate Unit to increase such support to  and garments, and subsidies to agriculture. It also
countries.                                        points out the potential costs to developing countries
from the TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
Social Protection                                 Property Rights) Agreement, which requires 20-year
A second important issue that has been highlighted by  patents on pharmaceutical products and imposes new
the work on globalization concerns social services and  legal and administrative costs on developing countries.
social protection. Integration with the global economy  The Bank has called for better market access by poor
leads developing countries to grow faster because it  countries and for reform of TRIPS implementation to
creates a more dynamic environment in which there is  ensure access of poor countries to essential drugs.
greater competition and entry and exit of firms. But  Protection is not an issue solely for high-income
this dynamism has a clear social cost: there will be more  countries, however. Developing countries have also
turnover in the labor market, highlighting the need for  placed high barriers on agricultural products, labor-
good social protection. Furthermore, the jobs created  intensive manufactured goods, and other products and
in developing countries as a result of foreign trade and  services. Developing-country tariffs in manufacturing
investment will generally have higher skill.require-  are, on average, four times higher for imports from
ments than most existing jobs. This upgrading can be a  developing countries than are tariffs in industrial
powerful force for aggregate productivity growth, but  countries on imports from developing countries. Also,
it is crucially important that it be supported by a good  restrictions on services trade are usually more common
educational system and that the poor, in particular,  in developing countries than in industrial countries.
have good access to basic education.                 Global Economic Prospects 2002 makes a case for
Thus, going forward in the globalization debate,  reshaping the global architecture of world trade to
the Bank has an important role to play in research and  promote development and poverty reduction by focus-
in building the twin pillars of a sound investment cli-  ing on four policies: using the World Trade Organiza-
mate and good social services with social protection.  tion (WTO) ministerial to launch a development round
of trade negotiations that would reduce global trade
The Global Arcnitecture OT Trade                  barriers; engaging in global collective action to pro-
An important role for the Bank is trade advocacy on  mote trade outside the negotiating framework of the
behalf of developing countries. While developed coun-  WTO, including increasing multilateral aid-for-trade
tries have low trade protection, on average, the areas  assistance; adopting protrade development policies of
where they maintain protection are exactly the sectors  high-income countries unilaterally; and enacting new
where poor countries are potentially competitive, namely  trade reforms in developing countries. Some 2.8 billion
agriculture and labor-intensive manufactures. These  people live on less than $2 a day. The current projected
sectors confront the greatest trade barriers, putting the  baseline growth could reduce poverty by 600 million to
world's poor at a particular disadvantage. According to  2.2 billion by 2015. The report argues that seizing the
estimates in the Bank's Global Economic Prospects  opportunity to reshape the global trade architecture
2002, the average poor person selling into globalized  in this way would enable developing countries to grow
markets confronts barriers that are roughly twice as  at rates that could reduce such poverty to 1.9 billion
high as those facing the typical nonpoor worker. In  by 2015, effectively lifting an additional 300 million
general, tariffs in high-income countries on imports  people above the $2-a-day poverty line.



Middle-Income Countries                            include bilateral aid agencies, the United Nations and
A substantial proportion of the world's poor live in  its various specialized organizationis, the IMF, other
middle-income countries. The Bank has an essential  multilateral developmenit banks, the Organisationi for
role in helping these countries reduce poverty and  Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD),
advance toward becoming developed market econ-     nongovernmiental organizations, and private founda-
omies. These countries generally have access to the  tions. Tnhese partnerships have led to a number of suc-
international capital markets, although that access is  cessful global initiatives dealing wvith global public
limited and often volatile. For these countries the key  goods. Two of the major global initiatives are higih-
to developimient and poverty reduction lies in enhanc-  lighted here.
ing private investment and strengthening the invest-
menit climate, and establishing efficient and equitable  Consultative Group on Iiiternational
social expenditure progranis geared toward building  Agricultural Research
humani capital and providing equality of access to  The Consultative Group on Interinational Agricultural
economic opportunity.                              Research (CGIAR) is fostered by a broad-based part-
The crucial roles for the Bank are to help these  nership comprising the Food and Agriculture Organi-
countries with the cornplex structural, social, and  zation of the United Nations, the International Fund
institutional reforms that make them attractive to pri-  for Agricultural Development, the U.N. Dcvelopment
vate investment; stipport their restructuring and invest-  Programme (UNDP), 22 developing and 21 indtIstrial
ment needs while access to long-term capital is still  countries, private foundations, and regional organiza-
constrained; help them reduce the concentrations of  tions. Since 1971 the Bank has provided strong support
poverty that remain; assist them in reducing vuliera-  for CGIAR-a network of 16 Future Harvest Centers
bility to economic shocks and in mitigating the social  that mobilize cutting-edge science to reduce huniger
impact of crises; and support the country-level imple-  and poverty in developing colintries, improve health,
mentation of the global public goods agenda.       and protect the environimiienit.
One of the keys to rapid poverty reduction in      CGIAR recognizes that agricultural growth, while
middle-income countries lies in the growth of the  feeding thc world's growinig population and reducing
private sector. The Bank continues to help couLitries  poverty, must be achieved through socially acceptable
complete basic market-opening reforms while also   and environmentally sustainable methods. Research is
supporting the complex structural and social reforms  a key meanis of providing newv crop and farminig tech-
that generally follow. As reforms take hold, countries  nologies. CGIAR research products are public goods
become more attractive to private investors, both  freely available to all. The benefits are far-reaching. For
domestic and foreign. The Bank uses a number of in-  example, CGIAR scientists developed quality protein
strumenits to catalyze and leverage the private sector,  maize that helps fight malnutrition, winninig the World
including offering partial credit and partial risk guar-  Food Prize. In West Africa's humid regions, NewN, Rices
antees to mobilize private sector financing for individ-  for Africa (NERICAs) are boosting rice prodtictioni;
ual projects. Its support for financial sector develop-  in Guinea, NERICAs are planted on 90,000 hectares,
ment draws on the complementary roles of IBRD,     saving $13 million in crippling imiport bills.
IFC, and MIGA.
Global Environment Facility
POVERTY REDUCTION AT THE GLOBAL LEVEL              The Bank has formed a strategic partnership with
the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the only newv
The scale and complexity of global poverty make it  funding source to emerge from the 1992 Rio Earth
imperative that the different development agencies-  Summit. GEF, in partnership with the Bank, UNDP,
governments, multilateral and bilateral organizations,  and the U.N. Environment Programme, is a major
the private sector, and civil society organizations-join  catalyst for protecting the global environmenit. It fos-
forces to work on the most important and difficult is-  ters cooperation and finances actions to conserve bio-
sties of development. The WVorld Bank has forged part-  diversity, r educe risks of climate change, protect the
nerships with a numliber of such organizationis over the  ozone layer, clean up inter-national waters, stop land
past few years around specific issties or programs of  degradation, and eliminiate persistent organic pollu-
global importance. The institutional partnerships  tants. GEF is the designated financial mechanisimi for
Chapter 1 Meeting the Poverty Challenge: The World Bank's Goals and Strategies  17



activities supplemented with a range of technology-
based programs to enhance knowledge sharing; and
-  *6-.-,                               helping clients enhance their capacity to generate,
access, and use knowledge from all sources.
The Bank's global knowledge outreach initiatives
<   -  .  include the World Bank Institute (WBI) learninig
programs, which broker and distill local and global
-____  ..  -'      <..             knowledge; the Global Development Learning Network
--____                            -                            > -^~ A . -- -(GDLN); the Development Gateway; World Links; the
t   s   _ ;  ;- .* ~    - .Global Development Network; African Virtual Univer-
N-              ;,            1 K                           sity; and InfoDev. (See www.worldbank.org/ks/
r          *             ' initiatives.html.)
The growing awareness that the efficient use of
knowledge makes the Bank a more effective institution
'  ~;-  -  has led to the mainstreaming of capacity building in its
operational work. For example, a "knowledge economy
assessment tool" is being used to help countries diag-
As one of the three implementing agencies of the Global Environment niose their policy anid inivestmenit nieeds as they eniter
Facility the Bank assists its member countrles to conserve and sustalnably  the global economy. In fiscal 2002 knowledge assess-
use their natural resources.
ments were completed for China and the Republic of
Korea, and they are under way in the Russian Federa-
the conventions on biological diversity, climate change,  tion and EU accession countries.
and persistent organic pollutants.                   Capacity enhancement, especially in public sector
The Bank's partnerslhip with GEF has been in-   managemiienit, is also critical in order for low-inicome
strumental in GEF's success. Through the Bank-GEF  countries to implement their poverty reduction strate-
Secretariat, the Bank plays a key role in managing  gies and provide improved basic public services. In re-
GEF-financed projects.                            sponse to increasinig country demanid, WBI leverages
As one of the GEF implemenitinig agencies, the Bank  its partnerships with other content providers and
helps its client countries to prepare and supervise GEF  donors to deliver, for example, courses for journalists,
projects. More than 300 Bank-GEF projects, includinig  seminiars for parliamentarians, and action-learniing
some joint projects with other imiplemeintinig agencies,  programs on anticorruptioni and legal and judicial re-
are being carried out in 127 countries. The projects are  form for government officials and policymakers.
financed by $1.5 billion in GEF grants and more than  As part of its rapid response to the crisis in
$9 billion in additional funding from public and pri-  Afghanistan, the Bank is btuilding a distance-learning
vate partners. The Bank also serves as the trustee of the  center under its GDLN in Kabul at the request of the
GEF Trust Fund and provides administrative support  government's Aid Coordination Agency.
for the GEF Secretariat. (See www.gefweb.org or
www.worldbank.org/gef.)                            FINANCING THE WORLD BANK'S POVERTY
REDUCTION EFFORTS
KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
I'he World Bank is a cooperative institution that
Creating, sharing, and applying knowledge through its  mobilizes financinig by means of outright contribu-
analysis and advisory services has always been an im-  tions from the richer member countries for IDA, and
portant part of the Bank's role in assisting client coun-  by borrowing from the international capital markets
tries to promote growth and reduce poverty. In recent  for IBRD. It channels these resotirces for the benefit
years the Bank has begun to organize its knowledge  of the poor in borrowing countries.
activities in a systematic way. It focuses on three areas:  The clients of IDA are the poorest countries, wvho
making effective use of knowledge to support the qual-  usually cannot afford to borrow on commercial terms.
ity of its operations; sharing knowledge with its clients  IDA offers concessional, no-interest loans (or credits)
and partners, leading to participatory development  to the poorest countries, repayable in 35 to 40 years
18      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



BOX 1.2 LENDING FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
The Bank offers an array of customized services       Both investment and adjustment loans are used
through IBRD and IDA-including loans, technical    flexibly to suit a range of purposes.
assistance, and advice-to its developing and in-
transition member countries. It uses two basic types  How a Loan Is Made
of lending instruments: investment loans and adjust-  Lending is developed in several phases. On the basis
ment loans.                                        of economic and sector work, often supported by the
Bank, the borrower identifies and prepares the project,
Investment Loans                                   and the Bank reviews its viability. During loan negotia-
Investment loans finance goods, works, and services in  tions the Bank and borrower agree on the develop-
support of economic and social development projects  ment objective, components, outputs, performance in-'
in a broad range of sectors. The nature of-the Bank's  dicators, an implementation plan, and a schedule for
investment lending has evolved over time. Originally  disbursing loan funds. Once the Bank approves the
focused on hardware, engineering services, and bricks  loan and it becomes effective, the borrower imple-
and mortar, investment lending has come to focus   ments the project or program according to terms
more on institution building, social development, and  agreed on with the Bank.
the public policy infrastructure needed to facilitate  All loans are governed by the World Bank's opera-
private sector activity as the Bank's priorities have  tional policies, which aim to ensure that Bank-financed
changed.                                           operations are economically, financially, socially, and
environmentally sound. Fiduciary policies and proce-
Adjustment Loans                                   dures govern the use of project-related funds, particu-
Adjustment loans provide quick-disbursing external  larly for the procurement of goods and services. Safe-
financing to support policy and institutional reforms.  guard policies help to prevent unintended adverse
Adjustment loans were originally designed to provide  effects on third parties and the environment.
short-term balance of payments support for macro-     The Bank supervises the implementation of each
economic policy reforms, including reforms in trade  loan and evaluates its results. Three-fourths of out-
policy. Over time they have evolved to focus more on  standing loans are managed by country directors locat-
medium-term structural and institutional reforms in  ed away from the Bank's Washington, D.C., headquar-
the financial sector, social policy, and public sector  ters. Nearly 30 percent of Bank staff are based in nearly
resource management.                               100 countrv offices worldwide.
after a 10-year grace period. In fiscal 2002 IDA pro-  Through partnerships with other institutionis, cofi-
vided $8.1 billion in financing for 133 projects in  nancing and trust funds are also made available for
62 low-income countries.                           projects.
The clients of IBRD, on the other hand, are gen-
erally the middle-income countries and, because of  The Role of IDA
the limitation on IDA resources, some of the larger  IDA is the world's largest source of concessional finan-
low-income countries that are deemed creditworthy  cial assistance for the poorest countries and invests in
for borrowing. IBRD offers loans at near-market terms  basic economic and human development projects. Eli-
but with long maturities. In fiscal 2002 IBRD provided  gibility for access to IDA resources is governed by two
loans totaling $11.5 billion in support of 96 projects  basic criteria: a country's relative poverty (as measured
in 40 countries.                                   by per capita income) and its lack of creditworthiness.
Poverty reduction is at the core of lending from  The operational income cutoff for IDA eligibility in
both IDA and IBRD, through investments that support  fiscal 2002 is a per capita gross national income of
growth as well as investments in basic public services.  $885. In order to receive IDA resources, countries must
(Box 1.2 describes the Bank's lending instruments and  also be pursuing sound policies to promote growth
the process of loan approval.) See chapter 2 for details  and reduce poverty; IDA assistance is allocated based
of lending during the year.                        on annual assessments of countries' policies and
Chapter 1 Meeting the Poverty Challenge: The World Bank's Goals and Strategies



institutiois. In exceptional circumstances IDA extends       'rC
eligibility to countries that are above the inicome cutoff            ,
but are not fully creditworthy to borrow from IBRD.
Stich exceptions have been made for small island
econoliies.                                              '     X, .
IDA recipient countries face complex challenges in
striving for progress toward the MDGs. IDA supports       !=
counitries in their developmenit efforts by promoting                            I 9
sound policies to secure the basis for economilic growth  '_ r
and poverty reduction. Policv priorities include im-
proving the quality of and access to basic educationr
by the poor; strengthening the fight against the spread
of comnllLinicable diseases, inciLiding HIV/AIDS; anld                        al-- r
building a healthy investimieint climilate. IDA is a leader                                                          NCA;j-';  -
amonig developmenit institutionis in targeting assistance  -   ;        \ 
to countries that pursue sound policies, and it has re-
fndits performance-based allocaition system1 to place  The TreasuJry tradin g roomn isj the Bnerve rentelr th5et Bankgsn
finidispronac-ased loainssei opae                       financial transactions. investing the Bank's liquJid assets, managing
an even greater emphasis on good governance.            balance sheet risks, and rrieeting bond investor needs are crucial to
IDA is financed by a partnership of donors, who     the Barik's ability to respond to clients financing needs.
come together every three years to decide on the
amounllat of new resources required to fund IDA's future  Figure 1.1 IDA's Stepped-Up Effort in the Social
lendinig program and to discuss lendinig policies and              Sectors
priorities.~~~~~~~~~~~ 297 projects ongoing (compared with
priorities.                                                        190 a decade ago)
Fiscal 2002 marked the last year of the 1 2th1
Repleniishlimlenit of IDA, which finded coiTimitimienlts  Number of projects
for fiscal 2000 through 2002. Special drawing rights        under implementationa
(SDRs) of 8.7 billion were provided by donors, and      300                               =   Water Supply
SDR 6.6 billion came from internal resotirces, incltid-                             48        and Sanitation
ing repaymen1ts of past credits, service charges, and                     47               =  Social Services
IB3RI) net inicome. (See chapter 2 for an update on1                      _         67        Health, Nutrition,
and Population
IDA.) Figure 1.1 shows IDA's increased effort in the    200               52 l                Education
social sectors.                                                 36
22
The Role of IBRD                                                          806
Countries with a per capita income of less than $5,225  100    :           -e
that are not IDA-only borrowers are eligible to borrow                    -
from IBRD. Countries with higher per capita incomiies           78                  89
may borrow tinder special circumstances or as part of     0. -                         _
a graduation strategy. It is importanit to note, howevei',     FY92      FY97      FY02
that the amoulilt that counltries cani borrow Iromii I BID)  a. Includes projects in both IDA-only and blend countries.
depenids onl their creditworthiniiess. TIItIS, couniitries  IDA commitment value of ongoing social sector projects
may be eiigible to borrow but may not have access to    Fiscal 1992: $8.1 billion
IBRD resources because of poor creditworthiness. In     Fiscal 1997: $13.2 billion
addition, IBRD loans outstandinig to any individual     Fiscal 2002: $13.7 billion
borrower, irrespective of its creditworthiness, may not
exceed S13.5 billion.                                   countries are eligible for IDA lendinig due to their low
Seventy-five percent of people who live on1 less thani  per capita incomiies, but they are also creditworthy for
$1 per day live in countries that receive IBRD lending.  some IBRD borrowving. These counltries are known
IBRD borrowers are typicallv middle-incomile couLntries  as blend borrowers. Eveni excluding IBRD loans to the
that enjoy some access to private capital markets. Some  blend countries, a full 25 percent of those who live on1
20       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



less thani $1 a day live in countries that are IBRD bor-  grew to $5.34 billion. (See chapter 2 for more on trust
rowers. IBRD provides important support for poverty  funds.)
reduction by facilitating access to capital in larger
volumes, on good terms, with longer maturities,      IMPROVING DEVELOPMENT EFFECTIVENESS:
and in a more sustainiable manier than the market    STRONGER FOCUS ON RESULTS
provides.
IBRI) is a AAA-rated finanicial institutioni-with  Development experience over thc past 50 years has
some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sov-  highlighted the importance of focusinlg on outcom1les.
ereign govermiients. Its member borrowers have       Donors demand that funds provided by their taxpavers
a voice in setting its policies. IBRD loans (and IDA  achieve results. 'I'he citizens of developing countries are
credits) are typically accompanied by nonlendinig scrv-  impatient to see tangible improvemenits in their living
ices to ensure more effective use of funds. Also, unlike  conditions within a reasonable time frame. Both expect
commercial banks, IBRD is driven by development      the World Bank and other development agencies to be
impact rathel than profit maximization.              able to demonistrate the results of joint efforts. Devel-
In fiscal 2002 IBRD raised $23 billion at medium-  oping more accurate and timely data on social and eco-
to long-term maturities in internationial capital mar-  n1omiliC outcomiles and conductilig independent evalua-
kets. The year's funding volume was above the $17 bil-  tions of projects and country programs provide a basis
lion raised in fiscal 2(001. Borrowinigs, along with share-  for ensurinig accountability and, more importalitl',v
holder equity, fund 113RD's loans and investments. Its  learning from experience. (Figure 1.2 shows official
financial strength is based on the support it receives  development assistance by country.)
from its shareholders and oin its financial policies and  The Bank has, in the last few years, significanitly
practices, which are designed to maintaini a high credit  increased its focus on moniitoring the quality of
standing in the inter-nationial markets.             implemenitationi, sustainiability, and developmelit out-
comes ofl the programs it finances. Its monitorinig and
Cofinancing                                          evaluation systems are being strengthened to more
Cofinanicinig describes funds committed by official  comprelhensively capture the poverty impact of its
bilateral partners, muIltilateral partners, export credit  policy-based and investmenit lending, as well as its
agencies, or private sources to specific Bank-funded  advisory services, and will enable it to more closely
projects. Cofinanicinig enables the WAforld Bank to lever-  track its progress toward meeting the MDGs. Evalua-
age its resources with additional financinig, often at ino  tions of completed projects by the Bank's Operations
interest or as grants, to benefit the recipient country.
Finanicinlg provided by multiple sources in support
of individual projects also allows harmonization of  Figure 1.2 Net Official Development Assistance as
policies and procedures, thus reducing the administra-  F       NeOc         ent         asistance
a Percentage of Gross National Income
tive burden on the recipient country and improving
effectivxeness. In fiscal 2002 IBRD and IDA financinig  0.8
of $19.5 billion wvas supplemented by $4.7 billion   0.7
from such sources. (See chapter 2 for more on        0.6
cofi nalnci ig.)                                     0.5
0.4
Trust Funds                                          0.3
A numilber of industrial countries, a few of the larger  0.2                            _
developing countries, the private sector, and non-   0.1
goveriillental organizations maintain trust funds with  0.0
the World Bank that can be used to supplement Bank       1991                 1996                 2001
resources for specific agreed-on initiatives. The trust  -     United States  -  United Kingdom
funds available cover areas that facilitate grant funding  -   Japan      -   Average for all DAC countries
of highi-priority developmienit needs, includinig techni-  -   Germany    -   U.N. Target = 0.7%
cal assistance and advisory services, debt relief, and  Note: Data for 2001 are preliminary.
postconflict transitioni. In fiscal 2002, trust fund assets  Source: OECD's Development Assistance Committee.
Chapter 1 Meeting the Poverty Challenge: The World Bank's Goals and Strategies  21



Evaluation Department (OED) indicate continuing       The changes were approved in August 2001 after
improvement, with 82 percent of the projects account-  the Batik published its draft review of the policy and
ing for 78 percent of financing rated as satisfactory.  held extensive consultations to solicit the views of civil
OED has also conducted over 55 country assistance  society, industry groups, and governments in 21 coun-
evaluations through fiscal 2002. Mechanisms are in  tries around the world. The Bank also invited comn-
place to monitor the quality of operations on an   ments through its WAleb site.
ongoing basis.                                        Under the revised policy the Bank will release
The World Bank periodically undertakes a broader  more project-related documents, and provision of
assessment of its major progranis, going beyond the as-  Banik information and archives will be more system-
sessmenits of individual operations. In fiscal 2002 an  atic, timely, and user-friendly. The Bank also made
evaluation was carried out on IBRD and IIDA lending  plans that will, over time, substantially iniprove access
going back 50 years. (See chapter 3 for a complete dis-  to informationi through Bank offices in developing
cussion of development effectiveness.)             countries. Thirteen pilot programs across the Bank
will enable Country Management Units to develop
OPENNESS AND TRANSPARENCY                          and test ways of making even niore inforniation
available, especially for consultations associated
Informing and consultillg stakeholders has contributed  with country strategy, lending preparation, and
to effective and sustainable developmenit by stimulating  implementationi.
debate, broadeninig understanding, and strengthening  Task forces have designed strategies for upgrad-
country ownership of development activities. Building  ing public inforniation services worldwide. (See
on previous efforts to make more information publicly  www.worldbank.org/operations/disclosure/ for the
available, the Bank has revised its policy on informa-  full text of the revised disclosure policy and updated
tion disclosure.                                   procedural guidanice on implenientation.)
22      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



-(  -~~~-'rL -AAU L       ~ \J   
t            Chapter2
I1,inh; VXW,E17if    lWh MOfU1              Overview of World:Bank'Activities
in Fiscal 20O2
U  **~~  I  I  -  D  I 
-   e  *       v  JIIJg4irqEei!



FISCAL 2002 HIGHLIGHTS
*   IBRD and IDA lending commitments increased to  *  The Bank studied the past 50 years of develop-
$19.5 billion, reflecting highest-ever lending levels  ment assistance and recorded its findings in The
by IDA, which reached $8.1 billion for 133 new   Role and Effectiveness of Development Assistance:
operations. IDA's strong lending program was     Lessons from World Bank Experience. The study
driven by record lending to Africa and South Asia,  took a broad view of the relationship between
which together accounted for $6.4 billion.       development experience and official development
*   In fiscal 2002 Bank support to HIV/AIDS (human   assistance over the past 50 years, with particular
immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune defi-     emphasis on the World Bank's experience in re-
ciency syndrome) projects amounted to new com-   cent decades. It found that progress in improving
mitments of over $300 million. Lending operations  well-being has been rapid, if uneven, and that-
were approved in Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi,   notwithstanding some significant shortcomings
Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Jamaica,  and failures-such assistance has often helped to
Madagascar, Nigeria, Senegal, and Sierra Leone,  underpin and support success. It also found that,
and HIV/AIDS components were significant in a    in large part because of lessons that donors and
number of other new and ongoing projects. The    governments have learned from both successes
Bank supports HIV/AIDS work in over 64 countries.  and failures, development assistance is becoming
By far the greatest concentration of HIV/AIDS ac-  more effective in supporting growth and poverty
tivities supported by the Bank has been in Africa.  reduction.
To date, 16 Multicountry HIV/AIDS Programs  *  In March 2002 more than 50 heads of state gath-
(MAPs) totaling commitments of over $550 million  ered in Monterrey, Mexico, at the Financing for
have been prepared in record time in Africa to   Development Conference, where they adopted the
match the emergency nature of the epidemic.      Monterrey Consensus, which calls for freeing
The MAP approach has involved extensive col-  trade, increasing aid, and reducing external debt
laboration with national governments, partners in  to sustainable levels in order to provide countries
the Joint U.N. Programme on HIV/AIDS, bilateral  that follow sound policies and good governance
donors, the International Partnership against AIDS  with the means to obtain the Millennium Devel-
in Africa, key nongovernmental organizations,    opment Goals. An additional $12 billion in aid over
persons living with HIV/AIDS, and other key      the next three years was pledged by donor coun-
stakeholders.                                    tries at the conference.
The Bank's Board of Executive Directors ap-  *  In April 2002 the Bank approved its first operation
proved a second phase of the approach, known as  in Afghanistan since 1979-a $10 million grant to
MAP2, in February 2002, earmarking another       assist the Afghanistan Interim Administration with
$500 million. MAPs, such as a fiscal 2001 MAP in  key public administration functions-to enable it
the Caribbean, are channeling a substantial share  to effectively use its public resources, including
of resources (in most cases about 50 percent)    millions of dollars in donor funding, for rebuilding
directly to local communities to carry out HIV/AIDS  and development. The Board of Executive Direc-
activities of their own design.                  tors also endorsed the Transitional Support Strat-
*   The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)      egy, the Bank's plan for support to Afghanistan for
approach, which stresses the centrality of country  the following six to nine months.
ownership based on broad participation for suc-     In May the Bank opened its Afghanistan office
cess in fighting poverty, received support from  and launched the Afghanistan Reconstruction
developing-country, donor, and civil society par-  Trust Fund, to help the Afghanistan Interim Ad-
ticipants at the joint World Bank-International  ministration fund physical reconstruction projects
Monetary Fund PRSP review conference in January  and salaries for civil servants. The Bank provided a
2002. The approach gained momentum in fiscal     total of $100 million in grant financing in fiscal
2002, when an additional nine countries complet-  2002 and has proposed a further $470 million
ed interim PRSPs and seven countries completed   for the lifespan of the transitional government
their first full PRSPs.                          elected by the Loya Jirga in June.
24      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Chapter 2
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002
In fiscal 2002 the World Bank underscored its efforts in  of the events of September 2001. Greater uncertainty
poverty reduction, forming new initiatives in response  and slower world growth resulted. The developing
to world events. It assessed the impact on poor coun-  countries hardest hit were those dependent on com-
tries of the events of September 11 and offered special  modity exports-as many commodity prices reached
assistance to countries experiencing particular eco-  historical lows-and those with highly indebted
nomic shocks. The Bank's operations were temporarily  emerging economies-as private investors reduced
affected this year as country teams adapted travel plans  their exposure in emerging markets. Countries with
and worked to focus country activities with fewer  high-tech sectors were also hard hit, and tourism
missions.                                        industries suffered. Gross domestic product (GDP)
Rich and poor nations fostered a new develop-  growth for the developing and transition countries fell
ment partnership when they came together to address  from a record average of 5.4 percent in calendar 2000
the challenges faced by the global community at the  to 2.8 percent in calendar 2001, and per capita growth
Financing for Development Conference in Monterrey,  declined to 1.4 percent.
Mexico, in March 2002. The Bank, other multilateral  All regions showed a decline in GDP growth in
organizations, and many countries pledged additional  calendar 2001, with the exception of South Asia, which
financial and technical resources to fight poverty.  grew at 4.3 percent, up from 4 percent in 2000. Growth
in the East Asia and Pacific region slowed to 4.6 percent
GLOBAL CONTEXT                                   in 2001 from 7.4 percent the year before; it was affected
by the collapse of global demand for high-tech com-
The global economic slowdown that began in fiscal  modities and the slowdown in tourism. Growth in
2001 was compounded by the economic aftermath    the Middle East and North Africa region slowed to
3.1 percent in 2001 after above-average performance
1111iill :of 4.2 percent during 2000, largely due to falling oil
prices. Africa grew by 2.6 percent, down from 3.1 per-
cent the prior year. Europe and Central Asia grew by
2.2 percent, contrasted with 6.4 percent in 2000; it was
.V             Z                  -4      affected by a contraction in Turkish exports and a fall
-  in Russian growth. Latin America and the Caribbean
,mm                                 ; 2            registered the lowest growth rate at 0.6 percent, down
s;-&S F,- from 3.8 percent in 2000; this reflected adverse external
--r  i  s  conditions, a progressive worsening of the political and
ineconomic situation in Argentina, and a steep decline
in tourist bookings. Even excluding Argentina, GDP in
Latin America and the Caribbean grew by only 1.3 per-
"'>iiA:'*_ >sAs in every slowdown, poor people pay the highest
_' ,;,vr:._-: -  <{ 'W price. Without buffers or safety nets to rely on, their
For poverty reduction, the Hank supports policies and projects to increase  ability to satisfy basic needs is immediately at stake
land access and productivity                     when their incomes decline. The Bank's ability to
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  25



respond to the recent global shocks has proven the   BOX 2.1 NEW CODING SYSTEM FOR
overall soundness of its approach in such situations. Its  BANK LENDING
existing instruments and policies make available a wide
variety of options for providing tailored financial assis-  To better track the distribution of the Bank's work
tance to its clients affected by the economic downturn.  programs, a new two-dimensional coding system
Civil conflict, terrorism, money laundering, and cor-  was implemented in fiscal 2002. All lending data in
ruption have increasingly become the focus of interna-  this report will reflect the new coding system. Each
tional concern. The combined effects of slower economic  loan will be tracked by both theme and sector
growth, the significant decline of private capital flows,  codes. The theme codes correspond to the goals
and growing populations in developing countries have  and objectives of Bank activities, and the sector
increased the need for official development assistance.  codes indicate the parts of the economy that
directly benefit from Bank support.
THE WORLD BANK'S LENDING AND ADVISORY                   The new coding system enables the Bank to
SERVICES IN FISCAL 2002                              better manage its portfolio and monitor progress
toward achieving its goals as defined by its corpo-
The Bank's lending and advisory services focus on    rate priorities and the MDGs, while maintaining a
work at the country level and reflect the Bank's focus  focus on economic segments. It allows for up to
on the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs), its cor-  five themes and five sectors per activity, recogniz-
porate priorities, and its identified global public goods  ing that many Bank projects are multifaceted.
priorities. The Bank tailors its lending to the needs of  The picture generated by the new coding sys-
individual countries while keeping in mind its larger  tem will differ in many respects from the picture
overall goals.                                       generated by the old system. In moving to a new
system, and thereby establishing a new baseline, it
The International Bank for Reconstruction            is inevitable that significant shifts will appear to
and Development                                      have been made in the Bank's portfolio.
At $11.5 billion, new lending by IBRD in fiscal 2002    For example, in the new system, all technical
was $1 billion above the previous year's level. The  assistance provided to government agencies is as-
number of new operations approved was higher than    signed uniformly to the public administration sec-
last year, at 96.                                    tor, while the goal of the technical assistance (such
New IBRD lending to Europe and Central Asia       as private sector development or environmental
reached a record high of $4.9 billion, or 43 percent of  protection) determines the selection of the the-
total IBRD commitments, followed by Latin America    matic code. Advisory services provided to a ministry
and the Caribbean with $4.2 billion. The East Asia and  of education, for example, are assigned to the pub-
Pacific region was third with $1 billion.            lic administration sector and an education category
Public administration was by far the leading sector  under the human development theme. This differ-
for IBRD lending, receiving $3.6 billion, over 30 per-  ence in coding rules explains the public administra-
cent of the total. The significant amount of lending in  tion sector's significantly higher share in the new
the public administration sector reflects the Bank's  coding system in comparison with the old one.
focus on assisting its clients to improve development
strategies, implement reform policies, and build insti-
tutional capacities. Lending to the finance sector was
second, representing $2.1 billion, about 18 percent of
the total. (Box 2.1 describes the Bank's new coding
system for lending.)
The prevalent themes correlated to the sector lend-
ing, with a major focus on strengthening the financial
and private sector regulatory framework and improv-
ing public sector governance. Human development,
economic management, and urban development were
also supported.
26      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



The share of adjustment lending by IBRD rose to a  Figure 2.1 IBRD Lending by Region, Fiscal 2002
record high of 64 percent in fiscal 2002, compared with        Share of total lending of $11.5 billion
38 percent in fiscal 2001, and with 47 percent and
63 percent during the East Asian crisis years of fiscal                 South  - Africa <   1%
Middle East & Ai %    Es sa&Pcfc9
1998 and 1999, respectively. Argentina, Brazil, Jamaica,  North Africa 40i                   f
Tunisia, Turkey, and Ukraine are among the countries
where Bank lending sought to alleviate the effects of             /           7 ;;i
falling export demand, commodity prices, and capital
market access. Figures 2.1 through 2.3 show IBRD
lending by region, theme, and sector in fiscal 2002.                                         Europe &
Latin America &                         Central Asia
Table 2.1 shows the Bank's adjustment lending in      the Caribbean                          42%
2000-02.                                                     37%
The International Development Association
IDA lending this fiscal year reached a record high
of $8.1 billion for 133 operations, compared with    Figure 2.2 IBRD Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002
$6.8 billion for 134 operations last fiscal year. (An          Share of total lending of $11.5 billion
IDA guarantee for $115 million was also approved for
Uganda in fiscal 2002. This guarantee was not effective             Environmental & Natural
as of June 30, 2002.)                                               Resource Management 4%
This robust lending program was driven by record        Rural Development 5%   Economic Management 9%
lending to Africa and South Asia. Lending to Africa     Development 8%
constituted nearly one-half of total IDA lending this                                        Public Sector
Human                   ~~~~~~Governance
year, with $3.8 billion financing 63 new operations.  Development                           24%
The largest borrowers in this region included the
Democratic Republic of Congo ($500 million),               Social
Nigeria ($427 million), and Tanzania ($402 million).  Development
Genlder 
Lending to South Asia totaled $2.6 billion or about   Inclusule of Law
one-third of total IDA lending. The largest borrowers  Social Protection &1%
in this region were India at $1.3 billion and Pakistan at  Risk Management  ' _ _
$800 million.                                                   6%       Financial & Private Sector
Trade & Integration 2% Development 30%
IDA's investment lending was strong at $5.6 billion,
accounting for 70 percent of new commitments. This  Note: See Table 2.2.
includes $100 million in IDA grants to Afghanistan to
support emergency reconstruction, education, public  Figure 2.3 IBRD Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002
administration, and community empowerment.                     Share of total lending of $11.5 billion
A significant portion of IDA lending supported
operations in the social sectors where $2 billion        Water, Sanitation &  Agriculture, Fishing &
financed 44 projects in the areas of education, health,  Flood Protectior 2%  Forestry 5%
social services, and water and sanitation. Lending in  Transportation 13%
the area of public sector administration was also       Energy &                           Law & Justice &
substantial this year at $1.6 billion for 34 operations,  Mining 6%  \gz'                 Public
reflecting the focus on supporting IDA countries in   Industry &                          Administration
their effort to establish the efficient and accountable  Trade 5%                          31%
public sector institutions needed for growth and        Health &\
poverty reduction. This emphasis was also reflected   Other Social                       Information &
in the thematic breakdown, where lending in support  Services 12%                        Communication
of public sector governlance featured prominently,                                       1%
along with lending in the area of financial and private           Finance 18%    Education 7%
sector development. Figures 2.4 through 2.6 show IDA  Note: See Table 2.2.
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  27



Table 2.1 World Bank Adjustment Commitments, Fiscal 2000-02
Fiscal 2000         Fiscal 2001        Fiscal 2002
Millions            Millions           Millions
of dollars  Percent  of dollars  Percent  of dollars  Percent
Adjustment commitments by region
Africa                                    495       10        908      16       1,437      15
East Asia and Pacific                     552       11        250       4         17        0
Europe and Central Asia                   950       19      1,132      20       4,743      48
Latin America and the Caribbean         2,860       56      2,788      48       2,517      26
Middle East and North Africa                0        0        185       3        263        3
South Asia                                251        5        500       9        850        9
IBRD and IDA adjustment commitments
IBRD                                    4,426       87      3,937      68       7,383      75
IDA                                       682       13      1,826      32       2,443      25
Total adjustment loans                   5,108     100      5,763     100       9,826     100
Total World Bank lending commitments
IBRD                                    10,919             10,487            |11,452
IDA                                     4,358               6,764            1 8,068
Total IBRD + IDA                        15,276             17,251             I19,519
Share of adjustment loans                           33                 33    I             50
Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding
lending by region, theme, and sector in fiscal 2002;  broader, and faster initiative, providing more relief to
table 2.2 shows overall IBRD and IDA lending by  more couLntries more rapidly.
theme and sector for 1993-2002; and figures 2.7     Fiscal 2002 saw contilued progress toward imple-
through 2.9 show overall IBRI) and IDA lending by  mentation of the HIPC Initiative, when four countries
region, theme, and sector.                       completed the initiative and three more counltries qual-
ified for assistance. Altogether, 26 countries are now
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL 2002                receiving HIPC debt service relief that, ulider the cur-
rent framework, is expected to amoulit to $41 billion
Accelerated Debt Relief                          from all creditors and to contribute to an overall re-
Significant progress was made in fiscal 2002 in provid-  ductioll in debt stock of nearly two-thlirds.
ing increased debt relief to some of the world's poorest  Notable progr-ess was achieved in extendinig these
countries, many of them in Africa, under the Heavily  benefits to countries emerging from conflict. Ethiopia
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, which wvas  arid Sierra Leone received debt service relief, arid pre-
proposed by the World Bank and Internationial Mone-  liminary work was commenced for the Democratic
tary Fund (IMF) arid agreed to by the interinationial  Republic of Congo and the Republic of Congo. Work
community in 1996. It was the first coniprehensive ap-  continiues in this area, as most of the HIPCs yet to
proach to reducing the external debt of the wvorld's  qualify for relief are conflict affected.
poorest, most heavily indebted countries, and repre-  'Work was also stepped up in HIPCs to help them
sented a major advance by placing debt relief within arn  address the challenges of maintaininig external debt
overall framework of poverty reduction.          sustainability over the long terni, particularly in light of
Early promise established the basis for an even  the weakened global economy arid the effects of declin-
more dynamic approach, and in 1999 multilateral  ing conimimodity prices. In addition to identifyinig the
organizations, bilateral creditors, HIPC governments,  potential costs of the economic slowdown, steps were
and civil society worked together to create a deeper,  taken to help strengthenl capacity in the public sector in
28      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 2.4 IDA Lending by Region, Fiscal 2002      areas such as debt management and the adminlistration
Share of total lending of $8.1 billion   of public expenditures. These are scen as critical to
endinig the debt problem and establishing the founda-
tion for successful poverty reduction strategies.
South Asia 32%                                     When fully implemented, the expanded FIIPC
Initiative is expected to cancel more than $50 billion in
Africa 47%  the debt service of some 34 countries. Arguably more
important, it has created a strong and transparent link
Middle East &\
North Africa 1%  _                                 between debt relief and poverty reduction by leading to
the adoption of nationally owned Poverty Reduction
Latin Amerib a 20/a                             Strategy Papers (PRSPs) as the basis of HIPC relief and
the Ca ri bbea n 2%  D _        /
concessional lending. HIPC debt relief is shown in fig-
Europe & Central Asia 8%  East Asia &              ure 2. 10. Trends in social spending before and after
Pacific 10%                    HI PC relief are shown in figuire 2.1 1.
Figure 2.5 IDA Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002       Argentina
Share of total lending of $8.1 billion   'I'he Bank will direct $100 million from undisbursed
Environmental & Natural                         existing loans to meet Argentina's urgent social needs
Resource Management 6%   Economic Management 5%   in health, education, and community development.
Rural Development                   P     S        The funds will provide for primary health care and
13%     \       /     \Public Sector..
Governance 190/c  essential medicines for mothers and infants, educa-
tional supplies for public schools, and funds for social
Development                                       work, community kitchens, and work with non-
7% r L9'-* -- 1         --t Rule of Law    governimlental organizations (NGOs) to administer
2%         the program.
Human       2 
Developmen                                       Afghanistan
11% \4          ^        /  Private Sector  Afghanistan
Social Development,      -       Development   The Bank approved a grant of $10 million in direct
Gender & Inclusion 11%                            budget support to the Interim Adminiistration, and
Social Proetn & Trade & Integration 2%  comimaitted an additional $90 millioni in grant fi-
Risk Management 5%                       nancing in fiscal 2002 for a series of reconstruction
Note See Table 2.2.                               and capacity-building projects. It has proposed a
further $470 million over two years beginniniig in fis-
Figure 2.6 IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002      cal 2003.
Share of total lending of $8.1 billion
Water, Sanitation &                              KNOWLEDGE SHARING
Flood Protection 5%  Agriculture, Fishing &
Forestry 8%                 In fiscal 2002 the Bank continued to make effective use
Ta   > spOratk                             of knowledge to support the quality of its operations.
,./      a   Law & Justice &  Thematic technical units are charged with capturing
Public
Administration 20%  the information the Bank and other institutions have
Energy &                                            acquired in their areas of specialty, and with using that
Mining                            Information &   knowledge to support the Bank's operations in coun-
16%                             C - communication  tries. Each thematic group has a Web site providing
Education 8%       access to important studies and information relevant
Industry &                                        to the topic, as well as specially commissioned best-
Trade 10%   _   /   _    ' Finance 10%            practice papers designed to distill the Bank's unique ex-
Health & Other                            perience in supporting projects in different countries.
Social Services 13%                             Knowledge sharing with the Bank's clients and
Note: See Table 2.2.                                partners has led to participatory activities in which
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  29



Table 2.2 World Bank Lending by Theme and Sector, Fiscal 1993-2002
(millions of dollars)
1993-97   1998_99a
(annual   (annual
average)  average)    2000      2001      2002
THEME
Economic Management                               1,057.9   1,952.7    799.6     895.3   1,408.0
Public Sector Governance                          1566.9    2,552.4   2,142.5   2,053.7  4,247.2
Rule of Law                                        314.4     362.9     373.6     410.0     273.2
Financial and Private Sector Development         6,191.7    9,486.0   3,368.4   3,940.9  5,055.4
Trade and Integration                              847.1      813.2    426.4    1,059.9    300.9
Social Protection and Risk Management             1,128.9   2,653.9   1,895.0   1,651.0  1,084.2
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion         1,034.4   1,320.5    800.8    1,469.7  1,385.7
Human Development                                1,900.4    2,484.8   1,190.3   1,134.7  1,756.1
Urban Development                                2,112.6    2,403.3   1,036.6   1,458.6  1,482.4
Rural Development                                2,390.7    2,746.4   1,413.7   1,822.3  1,602.2
Environmental and Natural Resource Management    2,965.4    2,018.6   1,829.4   1,354.6    924.0
Theme Total                                     21,510.5   28,794.8  15,276.2  17,250.6  19,519.4
SECTOR
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry                1,699.2   2,097.1    837.5     695.5   1,247.9
Law and Justice and Public Administration        3,201.7    6,127.2   4,525.4   3,843.0  5,199.6
Information and Communication                      261.8      179.4    273.8     216.9     153.2
Education                                         1,700.1   2,154.3    728.1    1,094.7  1,384.6
Finance                                           1,962.1   5,167.1   1,580.9   2,253.4  2,862.4
Health and Other Social Services                  1,897.6   3,114.5   1,491.7   2,521.2  2,366.1
Industry and Trade                                1,925.9   2,922.7   1,036.7    718.3   1,394.5
Energy and Mining                                3,480.6    2,311.0   1,572.4   1,530.7  1,974.6
Transportation                                    3,439.1   3,511.3   1,717.2   3,105.2  2,390.1
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection           1,942.3   1,210.2   1,512.6   1,271.7    546.0
Sector Total                                    21,510.5   28,794.8  15,276.2  17,250.6  19,519.4
Of which IBRD                                  15,410.8  21,634.3  10,918.6  10,487.0  11,451.8
Of which IDA                                    6,099.7   7,160.5   4,357.6   6,763.6  8,067.6b
Note: Lending is summarized in the 1I main theme categories and 10 main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral coding system, which in-
cludes 68 themes and 57 sectors. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. Please see appendix 11 in volume 2 for detailed IBRD and IDA
lending by theme and country.
a. Bank lending in fiscal 1998 and 1999 are presented together, the two being exceptional years due to the East Asian financial crisis.
b Excludes HIPC grants
government officials, NGO and private sector represen-  Ultimately, the success of national development
tatives, and donor government colleagues become part  efforts depends on the trained human resources and
of a team that builds programs with genuine owner-  institutional arrangements available to carry them
ship and commitment on the part of the client govern-  out. Supporting client countries to enhance their
ment. The Comprehensive Development Framework     capacity to generate, access, and use knowledge from
(CDF) and PRSPs are products of this new way of   all sources is central to the Bank's mission of poverty
working.                                          reduction.
30      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 2.7 Total IBRD-IDA Lending by Region,           The Bank's approach to creating, sharing, and ap-
Fiscal 2002                               plying knowledge helps it to leverage its IBRD and IDA
Share of total lending of $19.5 billion  lending activities for a greater impact on development.
South Asia 18%     7        Africa 19%       Traditional analytical and advisory services include
economic and sector work (ESW) and nonlending
Middle East &                                    technical assistance. ESW, the Bank's main analytical
North Africa 3% ' - -                              and advisory product line, provides the basis for the
East Asia &  Bank's policy dialogue with clients, the development of
Pacific 9%  country strategies, and the formulation and implemen-
Latin Arnerica &                                   tation of effective lending programs. Nonlending tech-
the Caribbean                                    nical assistance encompasses capacity-building efforts
22%                                       conducted jointly with clients. As the main analytical
-.  Europe & Central   and advisory tool, the ESW program is closely moni-
Asia 29%            tored by the Bank.
Figure 2.8 Total IBRD-IDA Lending by Theme,            In fiscal 2002, 457 products were delivered for
Fiscal 2002                               country clients, compared with 335 in fiscal 2001.
Share of total lending of $19.5 billion   Of these, about 90 were core diagnostic reports, such as
poverty assessments, country economic memoranda
Environmental & Natural              and development policy reviews, public expenditure
Resource Management 5%                reviews, country financial accountability assessments,
Rural Development 8%       Economic Management 7%  and country procurement assessments. These support
Urban,           -            | /<Public Sector  the Country Assistance Strategies (CASs), Poverty Re-
Development 8%                       Governance 22%  duction Support Credits (PRSCs), and other adjustment
lending. They also facilitate policy dialogue with clients.
Human / -iE-.                                    Public sector governance had the largest share
Development - l
Development                                 (25 percent) of the total ESW output in fiscal 2002,
r ,.    -Rule of Law   followed by economic management and financial and
Developmentc                                      private sector development (15 percent each). Financial
Gender &  n   tj!          /                   and private sector development, social protection and
Inclusion 7%                 nancial & Private   risk management, and human development reports
Social Protection & Trade &  Sector Development 26%  provided the diagnostic bases for project design and
Risk Management 6% Integration 2%                  country programming. Europe and Central Asia deliv-
Note: See Table 2.2.                                ered 26 percent of the program, followed by Africa
with 22 percent, and East Asia and Pacific with 16 per-
Figure 2.9 Total IBRD-IDA Lending by Sector,
Fiscal 2002                               cent. Country reports were supplemented by regional
Share of total lending of $19.5 billion   reports focusing on issues such as human immuno-
deficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome
Water, Sanitation &  Agriculture, Fishing &     (HIV/AIDS), rural and urban poverty, public expendi-
Flood Protection 3%   Forestry 6%               ture management, gender, and labor.
Transportation 12%                                    The high commitment to public sector governance
Law & Justice &  reflects the importance the Bank attaches to issues such
Energy              &               ,,0    i    ?s_oY \ Public  as public expenditure management, financial manage-
mining 10././.            ~~~~Administration
Mining 10%/~-j f.27%                          ment, corruption, procurement, civil service reform,
and decentralization.
Industry &                          I         &      The Bank has worked with partners to divide re-
Trade 7%                               i Information &
-> .d;    '  1  Communication  sponsibility for some diagnostic ESW at the country
Health &     Y            /     1%            level, and to enable joint preparation and wider
Other Social    .         2  Education 7%        dissemination of the diagnostic work. Particular em-
Services 12%      nance 15%                      phasis in fiscal 2002 was placed on trade, the invest-
Note: See Table 2.2.                                ment climate, the MDGs, cross-country benchmarking,
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  31



Figure 2.10 Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt    The program aims to improve the resiliency of national
Relief-Reduced Debt Stock and            and interinational financial markets through in-depth
Improving Debt Service Ratios
assessments of the strengtlhs, risks, and vuLlnerabilities
Billions                       of countries' financial systems. The Bank's contribution
Percent            of dollars                      focuses on the financial sector's instititional infra-
30                     90       Debt service as   structure and its ability to support broad-based inclu-
percent of exports  sive developmenit.
$62 21%                    (left axis)           Twenty-one coun1tries participated in the FSAP
5%   60       Debt service as   in fiscal 2002. FSAP reports were delivered this year
15                              (left axis)       to 12 countries, and Financial Sector Assessments for
30 +     Debt stock, billions  seven countries were delivered to the Bank's Executive
:  10%/o $27     of dollars net     Directors.
present value
0 _     '- _ |  _  _ . _0      (right axis)         A total of 55 countries wvill have participated in the
Before HIPC After HIPC                         program between its launchi in May 1999 arid the end
(1999)  (2001-02)                            of fiscal 2002. Between the inceptioni of the program
Source: World Bank. 2002. Status of Implementation. Washinqton, D.C.  and the end of January 2002, over 190 standards assess-
ments have been conducted, drawing on 157 experts
Figure 2.11 Trends in Social Spending before and    from 1 27 cooperating official institutions.
after Assistance under the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries Initiative       THE WORLD BANK'S RESOURCES
Millions                                         The Bank's resources in fiscal 2002 were drawni from
of dollars          Percent                       member country shareholder eqUity and funds raised
8,000           8%       8
CO Fin iiiterinationial capital markets.
7 o     S    sng          The International Development Association
4,000                            million of dollars  Fiscal 2002 was the third year of the 1 2th Repleniish-
6       (left axis)       ment of IDA (IDA 12). This replenishmenit provided
6%       :              Social spending,  IDA with resources to funld credits comimlitted during
..   .           ~~~~~percent of GDP
0             5       (~~~~~~prcent ofxis)  the period July 1, 1999, to Junie 30, 2002. Forty-onie
Before HIPC After HIPC                       countries are now IDA donors. Historically, doiior con-
(1999)  (2001-02)                          tributionis have been determined based on countries'
relative economiiic strengths and on their commitmiien1t
and basic service delivery (to be examined in W\4orld  to poor countries, and as such the major industrial na-
Developmieit Report 2004). Joint programs are being  tions have been the largest contributors to IDA. Never-
carried out between the Private Sector Development  theless, donor nations also include developing and
and Infrastructure Network and the Development Eco-  transition countries-some of them IlBRD borrowers
nomics and Data Group (DECDG) on trade, the Hu-      and former IDA borrowers-such as Argentina, Brazil,
man Development Network and DECDG on the MDGs,       Hungary, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federa-
and among the Poverty Reduction and Economic Man-    tion, and Turkey. (For a complete list of IDA donors,
agement Network, the World Bank Institute (WBI),    see appendix 12 of the IBRD/IDA Appendixes in
and DECDG on PRSPs and other cross-sectoral issues.  World Ba7nk Aiinnual Report 2002: X/olunie 2, Fina(ntcial
Statentents aind Appcndixes.) IDA's financial strength is
FINANCIAL SECTOR ASSESSMENT PROGRAM                 based primarily on the strong and continiued support
of its donors, as well as on repaymeiits of past credits.
The IMF and World Bank have put in place the joint   This year concluded the IDAI3 negotiations in which
IMF-World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Pro-      representatives froiii donor counltries agreed on a
gram (FSAP) following the East Asian crisis of the late  framewvork for the projected IDA 13 program anid asso-
1990s. The objective is to help countries strengthen  ciated financing needs. IDA 13 will make possible the
their financial systems and institutional infrastructure.  comniitment of special drawving rights (SDRs) of
32      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



18 billion (about $23 billion) to poor IDA members         serve-higher than the previous year, when $618 mni-
over the next three years, including approximately SDR     lion was retained-in keeping with IBRD's strategy to
10 billion (approximately $13 billion) from new donor      preserve long-term financial strength and support oth-
contributions. Within the IDA13 framework, donor           er development needs. IBRD maintained adequate liq-
representatives adopted a program for the increased        uidity in fiscal 2002 to ensure sufficient cash flow to
use of IDA grants to help address the special difficulties  meet its obligations. As of June 30, 2002, the liquid as-
faced by the poorest and most vulnerable countries.        set portfolio was $25 billion.
The framework also provides for the establishmnent of a
results-based measurement system to link IDA pro-          Managinig Retuirns to Maintaini Strengtlh. As a coopera-
grams to countries' development outcomes. This year        tive institution, IBRD does not seek to maximize profit
the replenishment discussions were opened up to rep-       but to earn a return on assets sufficienit to ensure its
resentatives of borrowers and civil society, and back-     financial strength and sustain its development activities
ground documents were made publicly available on the       on an ongoing basis. IBRI) achieves a net return on as-
Bank's Web site. Figure 2.12 shows the sources of IDA's    sets of about 1 percent per year. In fiscal 2002 the net
funding over the last three replenishments.                return on assets recovered to the 1 percent level after
declining below 1 percent in fiscal 2001 as a result of
The International Bank for Reconstruction                  an increase in the provision for loan loss. Figure 2.13
and Development                                            shows the net return on assets for 1998-2002.
As part of its regular financing operations IBRD raised
$23 billion at mediumr- to long-term maturities in in-     Managing Risk. Consistent with its development
ternational capital markets in fiscal 2002. This funding   mandate, IBRD's main financial risk is the credit risk
volume was above the $17 billion raised in fiscal 2001.    of its loan portfolio. This risk is closely managed.
IBRD issued loans in 10 currencies, with a wide range      IBRD keeps its exposure to market risk quite limited.
of maturities and structures in fiscal 2002. Product       Some market risk arises due to movements in market
diversification helps IBRD to expand its investor base     variables, such as interest rates and exchange rates.
and to reduce lending rates on its loans. IBRD's finan-    IBRD's equity-to-loans ratio is a summary measure of
cial strength is based on the support it receives from its  its risk-bearing capacity. The ratio is conservatively
shareholders and on its array of financial policies and    managed in light of IBRD's financial and risk outlook.
practices.                                                 Figure 2.14 shows the equity-to-loans ratio as of
June 30, 2002.
IBRD Financial Strength. IBRD's operating income in
fiscal 2002 was $1,924 million. IBRD retained $1,291       Achieving Efficient Inter,nediation. IBRD enjoys an
million out of operating incomiie in its general re-       exceptional franchiise in capital markets, reflectinig the
Figure 2.12 Sources of IDA Funding                         Figure 2.13 Net Return on Assets
(billions of dollars)                                      (percent)
15.0                                          1.5                        1.34                 1.30
11.0            11.6                0.96       10
4.1 0.9             1280 09                          0.0                                  0.7
IDA1O FY94-96    IDA11 FY97-99   IDA12 FYOO-02               FY98      FY99      FYOO      FY01a     FY02a
m  IDA Own Resourcesa  .~l New Funding  a. In fiscal 2001 IBRD adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
IDA O RsrsNNo. 133 and International Accounting Standard No. 39, which require that
m  IBRD Net Income Contribution                    derivative instruments be reported at fair value. The returns shown above
for fiscal 2001 and 2002 are presented before the effects of these standards
a. IDA Own Resources include principal repayments, service charges,  in order to facilitate comparison with prior years. With the inclusion of
and investment income.                                   the effects of these standards, the ratios would be 0.87 and 1.87 for fiscal
2001 and 2002, respectively.
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002     33



Figure 2.14 Equity-to-Loans Ratio as of               Figure 2.15 Borrowings and Investments as of
June 30, 2002                                         June 30, 2002
(percent)                                             (billions of dollars)
24    21.4     20.7     21.2      21.5     22.9       125     05.6    118.6    114     111.5    111.2
75
2524.8    30.1     24.3    24.4     25.1
25L_L_                  _ _L
0                                                         FY98     FY99     FY00    FY01     FY02
FY98     FY99      FY00     FY01      FY02         |     Cash and liquid investments
|    Borrowings outstandinga
capital commitments of its sovereign shareholders and   a. Net of swaps.
the preferred creditor status accorded by its borrowing
members-which provide it a high credit rating (AAA)   HIPC Trust Fund have amounted to a total of about
and allow it to borrow for long maturities on favorable  $890 million, averaging about 13 percent of annual
terms. This is reflected in the relatively low cost basis  IBRD net income.
of its new lending; an average spread of about 34.6      IBRD's net income helps meet other development
basis points (1 basis point equals 0.01 percent) below  needs from time to time. It enables IBRD to respond to
London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) in fiscal       unforeseen humanitarian crises and provide grants or
2002; and the high volumes it can intermediate        other support for worthy causes. IBRD also regularly
relative to its paid-in capital and retained earnings.  shares income with its borrowing members through
In fiscal 2002 the Bank's outstanding borrowings      partial waivers of the interest and commitment fees it
from capital markets was in excess of $110 billion,   contractually charges on its loans.
while its total disbursed and outstanding loans were     Financial strength and standing in the markets
$122 billion. This was about five times the size of its  allow IBRD to leverage its equity by five times in the
equity. Figure 2.15 shows the Bank's borrowings and   international bond markets. This leverage increases
investments as of June 30, 2002. Table 2.3 shows select  IBRD's ability to lend for development activities.
IBRD financial data for fiscal 2001 and 2002.         Figure 2.16 shows the proposed allocation of the
Bank's net operating income.
DISTRIBUTION OF IBRD'S NET INCOME                     Figure 2.16 Proposed Allocation of Fiscal 2002 Net
IBRD's net income serves several purposes related to              Operating Income of $1.9 billion
the Bank's mission.                                               (millions of dollars)
A portion of net income is retained annually to                                   HIPC 240
ensure IBRD's financial integrity. The general reserve
allows IBRD to assume credit risk in lending to coun-
tries at the lowest funding costs-which in turn bene-                                         IDA 300
fits borrowers. Income retention has enabled IBRD to
maintain financial soundness through past periods of
both deteriorating loan quality as well as surging loan
demand.                                                                                   7   Reservea 93
Support to IDA has consistently been a priority.    General Reserve
Over the last five years $1 .622 billion (or about               '                    /
24 percent of IBRD's net income) has been trans-
ferred to IDA.                                         Note: Proposal to the Board of Governors.
ferred toIDA.                              a. Pension Reserve is used exclusively for the income derived from the
Support for the HIPC Initiative has also been       difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan and
Over tepsfiyertrnthe accounting expense associated with it, required by Generally Accepted
important. Over the past five years transfers to the   Accounting Principles. These funds are not allocable.
34      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Table 2.3 Select IBRD Financial Data
(millions of dollars)
For the fiscal year a
Income from loans                                                               8,143
Income from investments                                                         1,540
Borrowing expenses                                  (                          (7,152)
Administrative expenses                                                          (881)
Other                                               ____(506)
Income, excludes FAS 133 adjustments                                            1,144
Loan commitments                                                               10,487
Loan disbursements                                                             11,784
At fiscal year enda
Cash and liquid investments                                                    24,407
Loans outstanding                                                            118,866
Borrowings outstanding                                                       (t 1 1 482)b
Equity                                         '    r231)(29,570)
a Excerpted from the audited financial statements presented in volume 2 of this Annual Report.
b. Outstanding borrowings, net of swaps.
WORLD BANK COFINANCING
*   The Colombia Structural Fiscal Adjustment
The Bank's cofinancing partners include regional de-  Loan-which was cofinanced by the IADB for
velopment banks and public and private sector organi-  $400 million.
zations. The Bank's cofinancing figures reflect the com-  *  The Tunisia ECAL III Project, which was cofi-
bination of the Bank's resources with those of other  nanced by the African Development Bank for
donors for projects in specific regions and sectors.  $194 million and the European Commission,
Cofinancing in fiscal 2002 amounted to $4.7 billion.  through the EuropeAid Co-operation Office, for
Major partners inclucled the Inter-American Develop-  $72 million.
ment Bank (IADB), the African Development Bank,
the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and the Japan  Figure 2.17 shows the ratio of total cofinancing to
Bank for International Cooperation.              World Bank lending.
The Latin America and the Caribbean region ac-
counted for the largest share of cofinancing in fiscal  TRUST FUND HIGHLIGHTS
2002 ($2.3 billion), followed by the Africa region
($1.3 billion) and the Middle East and North Africa  Trust funds, which are accounted for separately from
region ($0.4 billion).                           the Bank's own resources, are financial and admini-
strative arrangements with external donors that lead
Examples of Cofinancing in Fiscal 2002           to grant funding of high-priority development needs,
A total of 109 projects were cofinanced by the Bank  including technical assistance and advisory services,
and its partners in fiscal 2002. Examples of projects  debt relief, postconflict transition, and cofinancing.
with significant cofinancing include:            Trust funds help the Bank leverage its poverty reduc-
tion programs by funding key due diligence activities
*   The Ghana Road Sector Development Project,   for development operations, promoting innovative
which leveraged $745 million from 13 donor   approaches for projects, forging partnerships, and
agencies.                                    expanding the scope of development collaboration.
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  35



Figure 2.17 Ratio of Total Cofinancing to World    Trust Fund ($50 million)-totaled $1.20 billion, or 62
Bank Lending                            percent of total disbursements.
Of dollars                                        Accounting Policy
40                                             The trust fund financial information provided in the
L   Total Bank :Lending, 
a]i TotalinankcLending       preceding paragraph reflects contributions on an ac-
30      29                                     crual basis for the HIPC Trust Fund and on a cash basis
for all other trust funds. Disbursements for all trust
20                       17       19           funlds, including the HIPC Trust Fund, are reported on
15                            a cash basis.
10   8                 6                       Major New Programs
°F     1        -          | '' ] | | - - F  -   Responding to the emerging challenges, the donor
FY99     FY00    FY01     FY02           community agreed to establish several major new trust
28%      47%     35%      26%            fund programs for Bank administration during fiscal
Fiscal Year and Percent             2002. These included the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuber-
Note Cofinancing ratio = fiscal year total cofinancing/fiscal year  culosis, and Malaria; the Afghanistan ReconistrLuctioni
total lending. Cofinancing figures as of end of fiscal 2002.
Trust Fund; the Nile River Basin Trust Fund; The East-
ern Greater Great Lakes Trust Fund; the Knowledge for
Change Trust Fund; the TrLst Fund for Capacity BLuild-
They enable the Bank to complement and strengtheni  ing for Poverty Reduction Strategies in Low-Incomile
investment activities by breaking new ground with  Countries; and the Financial Sector Reform and
research and accessing a broad internationial knowl-  Strengthening Initiative.
edge base.
In fiscal 2002 management and the Board con-    Donor Consultations on Policy Reforms
ducted a review of the cost-effectiveness and risk impli-  The Bank initiated a series of consultationis with the
cations of managing a large and complex trust fund  trust funid donors to review audit results, propose
portfolio. Major new programs were funded, a series  standardizing the terms of trust fund agreemenits,
of focused audits and reviews were conducted, and  and discuss policy reforms for ensuring the alignment
reform initiatives for streamlining the channels of  of priorities. The focus of the policy reforms is on
assistance, prioritizing proposals, and enhancing the  Consultant Trust Funds and Single-Purpose Trust
control environment are well under way. These initia-  Funds supporting Bank lending development and
tives are expected to help ensure that the trust fund  analytical work.
program is well managed and closely aligned with the
Bank's overall strategy.                           Trust Fund Reforms
The trust fund program expanded in fiscal 2002.  The Bank also initiated a series of internal reforms to
Trust fund assets rose from $4.38 billion to $5.34 bil-  improve the control environment and reporting. These
lion (22 percent). The disbursements totaled $1.93 bil-  reforms included organizational changes, such as the
lion, an increase of $0.08 billion, or 5 percent. The con-  strengthening of the donor-relations function and the
tributions received from donors totaled $2.61 billion, a  establishment of a separate compliance unit, as well as
decrease of $0.11 billion, or 4 percent. The five largest  complementary system enhancements for the financial
donors were the United States ($640 million), Japan  accounting and reporting on trust funds.
($316 million), the Netherlands ($268 million), the   Another measure to enhance donor relations was
World Bank Group ($222 million), and the United    the establishment of a Web-based donor center that
Kingdom ($187 millioni), accounting for 62 percent of  provides access to trust fund information on a real-
all contributions. Disbursements on five major pro-  time basis. In addition, a trust fund awareness cam-
grams-HIPC ($758 million), GEF ($225 million), the  paign, reaching about 1,000 staff and managers, was
Policy and Human Resource Development Fund ($85    implemented, and a Trust Fund Learninig and Accredi-
million), the Consultative Group on International  tation Program is being developed to ensure that staff
Agricultural Research ($82 million), and the Ozone  are trained in all aspects of trust fund management.
36      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 2.18 Contributions to Bank-Administered    ment favors aid effectiveness and where the 13ank's
Trust Funds, Fiscal 1998-2002          presence will have a high impact. To address the needs
(millions of dollars)                  of countries with weak institutions and poor policy en-
vironments where development assistance is urgently
3,000 | = Bank Group            2,719   2,613     needed but likely to have little impact, the Bank is
2,500 |=  External             ' 422  - 222       exploring ways to adapt its assistance instruments to
2,000                   1769 .' '                 countries' specific needs. Corporate advocacy priorities
1,544   1,568 -  .    .                   help the Bank to incorporate the twin pillars of its de-
1,500  ~~~200    _   1,
1,5000                          2,20    2 391    velopment strategy into its country level work. Selectiv-
1,000      H                    2,297    .       ity at the global level reflects the Bank's global public
500   1,153   1,368   1,359                     goods priorities: communicable diseases, the environ-
ment, trade and integration, information and knowl-
1998    1999    2000     2001    2002     edge, and international financial architecture. The
Bank's Global Public Goods Incentive Fund, launched
in 2001, helped to achieve a stronger link between
global and country progranis. Box 2.2 describes the
Figure 2.18 shows contributions to Bank-administered  Bank's CDF.
trust funds in fiscal 1998-2002.
COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGIES
A FRAMEWORK FOR THE WORLD BANK'S                   The World Bank prepares a GAS for each of its borrow-
ASSISTANCEThWolBakpeaeaCAfoeahoItbrow
ing members in consultation with the government,
In fiscal 2002 the Bank moved to implement its Strate-  civil society organizations such as private nonprofit or-
gic Framework worldwide. In the past year the Bank  ganizations, and other development agencies. The pur-
has developed and communicated its strategy, ap-  pose of the CAS is to set out a Bank Group program
proach, and priorities, establishing many of the proce-  of lending and advisory services linked to a country's
dures and tools needed to translate those broad direc-  development strategy. Where there is a PRSP, CDF,
tions into concrete actions at the country and global  or other country-led process in place, it provides the
levels. The March 20(02 Strategy Update Paper for fiscal  general framework for the Bank's CAS. Beginning in
2003-05 focused on the evolution from strategy devel-  fiscal 2003, the Bank expects that all new CASs for
opment to implementation and results. The corporate  IDA-borrowing countries will normally be based on
priorities can now be more accurately monitored be-  a PRSP. To facilitate this alignment, the Bank has gen-
cause of the new system of identifying and coding bank  erally updated its strategy in a CAS progress report
lending activities.                               pending the PRSP completion.
In fiscal 2002 the Board discussed 34 CAS products,
Selectivity and Alignment                         including the first regionally integrated assistance strat-
The ongoing process of managing priorities is done  egy for 15 countries in WAest Africa, and 5 transitional
within the three-level framework for selectivity within  support strategies for postconflict countries such as
countries, across countries, and at the regional and  Afghanistan, Burundi, and the former Yugoslav Repub-
global level. Selectivity within countries combines a  lic of Macedonia. In fiscal 2002, 18 CAS documents
comprehensive analysis with a selective set of program  were prepared jointly with IFC, underscoring the
activities based on the client's priorities, the Bank's  importance of private sector investment in these
comparative advantage, and the comparative advantage  countries' economies.
of its partners. Sector Strategy Papers (SSPs) are linked  Significant progress has been made on CAS disclo-
closely to the PRSPs and CASs. They can further evolve  sure. All fiscal 2002 CAS documents (except one, which
into outcome documents with a strengthened focus  is pending) have been or are in the process of being
oni results.                                      disclosed. (See www.worldbank.org/cas.) Also, in cal-
The key criteria guiding the Bank's selectivity across  endar 2002 disclosure was extended to include the
countries are poverty and performance, focusing its  Chairman's Concluding Remarks to Board discussions
lending on countries where the overall policy environ-  for CAS documents that are disclosed. The Bank is also
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  37



BOX 2.2 STRENGTHENING THE COUNTRY BUSINESS MODEL: THE COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
The CDF is the approach the Bank has adopted for its  The CDF principles form the basis for PRSPs. Nearly
work at the country level. It fosters more effective and  50 low-income countries around the world are pursu-
sustained poverty reduction by working according to  ing the CDF approach explicitly through the PRSR Many
four key interrelated principles: a long-term holistic de-  middle-income countries have also embarked on the
velopment agenda; broad-based country ownership,   CDF approach. To support CDF implementation, staff at
where countries identify priorities; a country-based  the Bank, as well as other external partners, recognize
partnership; and accountability for development re-  country priorities and form partnerships to maximize
suits. The CDF enables each country to take charge of  the impact of the development effort.
its development process in a manner that reflects a   For the Bank's clients in the future, there are two
broad national consensus, beyond government alone.  particular challenges: to further improve participatory
There is beginning to be a more inclusive role for civil  approaches that ensure better engagement of key con-
society in such policy discussions, and there is good  stituencies, such as the poor, the sectoral ministries, the
progress in engaging a wide range of external as well  private sector, and parliaments; and to develop the
as internal partners in a country's strategy formulation.  national and institutional capacities to monitor and
This approach has been widely accepted by devel-  evaluate policy reforms and their impact in relation to
oping countries and major development partners-   country-specific targets, using the MDGs as a frame of
the U.N. system, the multilateral development banks  reference. Harmonizing external partners' strategies,
(MDBs), the European Commission, and bilateral    policies, and procedures, both at the institutional level
donors. These key partners are taking concrete steps  and the country level, is an additional challenge for all
to achieve better alignment of their assistance strate-  partners (see www.worldbank.org/cdf for more details
gies with nationally owned country strategies.    on the latest CDF progress report).
piloting the disclosure of information on CASs that are
under preparation.
In fiscal 2002 a draft CAS retrospective study found      - -.
that their quality continues to improve, with noticeable  ; 
progress in the treatment of poverty, gender, gover-      =._                                    '     -
nance, private sector, and financial sector issues. Never- E
theless, some areas need strengthening. Developing
practical performance monitoring and evaluation
frameworks remains a major challenge.                                             _
SUPPORT TO LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES
The PRSP approach offers a new opportunity for de-                             -
velopment strategy-and development assistance-to   The Bank's rural enterprise project in Uzbekistan will support newly
be grounded in a broad-based and country-owned    created private sector farming initiatives and result in improved farm
process. PRSCs are designed to support this approach  productivity and profitability
in countries with good policies and sound public
institutions. PRSCs have been approved this year for  implementation through improved harmonization of
Albania and Burkina Faso. Recent discussions with  donor policies.
representatives from PRSP countries, development
partners, and civil society organizations reinforced the  SUPPORT TO MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
importance of adapting PRSP processes to specific
country circumstances, setting realistic priorities and  Faced with a different set of development challenges,
targets in country-owned PRSPs, and supporting their  middle-income countries continue to seek Bank serv-
38      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



ices to enhance their debt/risk management flexibility  tive funds involved, and the flow of managed funds
and to improve their institutional capacity for design-  through partnerships. In recognition of the potential
ing and implementing economic and sector reforms.  risks, the Bank established explicit criteria for partner-
Following the recommendation of the 2001 middle-  ships in fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2002 the Partnership
income country task force, the Bank now emphasizes  Approval and Tracking System was put in place to
the complementary role of advisory services and has  provide centralized information on the Bank's regional
improved its lending instruments to meet the dynamic  and global partnerships. The Bank's partnership with
needs of middle-income countries. For example, a  the Development Gateway Foundation is described in
deferred drawdown option for adjustment loans was  box 2.3.
approved by the Board, and the corresponding instru-
ment became available to clients during the fiscal year.  World Bank Institute: A Partnership for Knowledge
The Bank has also introduced new financial products,  and Learning
including variable-spread single currency loans, fixed-  WBI, which supports the Bank's learning and knowl-
spread loans, and local currency loans, which provide  edge agenda, fosters a wide range of institutional part-
more flexible options for both low- and middle-  nerships, including 20 bilateral donors, over 100 train-
income clients.                                 ing and content partners, more than 40 private sector
and foundation partners, and 16 international, region-
SECTOR STRATEGY PAPERS                          al, and national institutions.
In the past year WBI has expanded its partnerships
SSPs help organize the Bank's work on global priorities  with the IMF and the U.N. Development Programme
such as disease eradication and the environment. They  (UNDP). WBI worked with the IMF on PRSP learning
are a launching point for promoting public action at  events and on other programs at two regional insti-
the global level, pulling together global programs and  tutes: the Joint Africa Institute (Abidjan, C6te d'Ivoire)
partnerships, and providing incentives for client coun-  and the Joint Vienna Institute (Austria). WBI has
tries to take action. More generally, SSPs help shape  worked closely with UNDP to develop capacity-
the Bank's approach and activities in a given sector  building strategies and policies, and contributed
or thematic area in order to enhance the impact on  substantially to the UNDP publication Capacityfor
growth and poverty reduction. SSPs also lay out strate-  Development-New Solutions to Old Problems, a major
gic options for sector and thematic areas, identifying  book launched at the Financing for Development
aspects of relatively weak country performance for  Conference in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002.
priority attention. They are developed with broad  The Global Development Learning Network
stakeholder consultation, and their implementation  (GDLN), a rapidly expanding network of distance-
is regularly monitored.                        learning centers, uses videoconferencing and other
In fiscal 2002 the Bank reviewed four SSPs, cover-  technologies to share learning activities worldwide.
ing the areas of environment, gender, information  Thirty-seven GDLN sites are now operating, and an
and communications, and private sector development.  additional 42 are under development. In China the
The titles of the SSPs include "Making Sustainable  distance-learning center hub in Beijing is linked with
Commitments: An Environmental Strategy for the  a regional center in Ningxia via a high-speed fiber
World Bank Group"; "Integrating Gender into the  network: the China Education and Research Network
World Bank's Work-A Strategy for Action"; "Sector  is creating a network of networks, reaching out to uni-
Strategy Paper: Information and Communications  versities throughout China. WBI's partnership with
Technologies"; and "Private Sector Development  TEC de Monterrey in Mexico also provides access to
Strategies: Directions for the World Bank Group."  more than 500 downlink points in Latin America
and the Caribbean.
PARTNERSHIPS FOR DEVELOPMENT                       Some WBI partnerships focus on specific topics.
For example, the Clean Air Initiative, which advances
Partnerships, as a way of doing the Bank's business,  innovative ways of improving air quality in cities
have grown dramatically over the past 10 years. The  around the world, involves a wide range of partners
Bank has recognized the importance of tracking the  including city governments, automobile companies,
number of partnerships, the amount of administra-  and donors. A distance-learning course on clean air
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  39



BOX 2.3 THE DEVELOPMENT GATEWAY                  diploma and degree programs by the end of calenidar
FOUNDATION                                       year 2002. Box 2.4 provides a list of knowledge sharing
and partnership Web sites.
The Bank has played a major role in launching the
Development Gateway Foundation, an independ-     United Nations
ent, nonprofit organization that combines public  The Bank's relationship with the United Nations has
and private support for a variety of efforts geared  advanced as a fundamental business partnership this
toward addressing the digital divide. The core   past year. The common ground, underpinned by a
mission. of the Foundation is to reduce poverty  comprehensive development agenda and the MDGs,
and support sustainable development through      evolved during 2001-02 as a consequence of the Inter-
the use of information and communication         national Conference on Financing for Development
technologies (ICT).                              preparation process, complenmented by the work to
In addition to the World Bank, Founding Merr,-  link economic, social, and environmenital issues in the
bers of the Foundation include the governments   World Summit on Sustainable Development. These
of Australia, China, Germany, India, Italy, Japan,  solid building blocks have encouraged creation of
the Republic of Korea, Mali (sponsored by the    stronger platforms to support country efforts to cre-
Netherlands), Pakistan, and Rwanda. Founding     ate poverty reduction strategies, and to harmonize
Members contribute at least $5 million (in cash or  operational issues with the U.N. Development Group.
in kind) over a three-year period.               In addition, the two institutions are revitalizing their
The Foundation is moving forward in four key  joint work on conflict prevention and reconstruction,
areas: the Development Gateway portal, an inter-  two areas in which the Bank, the United Nations, and
active portal facilitating access to information and  other partners share a common challenge of helping
knowledge on development and poverty reduc-      countries that are faced with the special needs associ-
tion; the Network of Research and Training Centers  ated with conflict.
withl hubs in the developing world, designed to ex-  At the global level, inniovative efforts to work
change ideas and test information and technology  together are embedded in such initiatives as joint
applications that will benefit the poor; an ICT De-  work to address the challenges of commullicable
velopment Forum for debate and knowledge shar-   diseases (Global Fund to Combat AIDS, Malaria, and
ing on key issues, and for promoting partnerships  Tuberculosis, and the WA'orld Health Organization's
between civil society and the public and private  Commission on Macroeconomics and Health), joint
sectors; and the Grants and Investments Program,  exploration of linkages between economic develop-
designed to support innovative projects and pro-  ment and human rights, and joint efforts to accelerate
grams that bridge the digital divide at the local,  Education for All action.
national, regional, and global levels.              The Bank is involved in interagency groups includ-
The Foundation held its inaugural meetings    ing the Chief Executives Board of agency heads within
in December 2001 and its second meeting in       which issues of coherence, coordination, and strategy
April 2002. (See www.dgfoundation.org.)          have emerged as part of learning and working with the
U.N. system as a whole.
Management and staff continue to participate in in-
tergovernmental processes and with agency governing
was delivered through the Inter-American Educational  bodies to build engaged, proactive, and forward-
Television Network's 500 affiliates in Latin America.  looking partnerships across the United Nations.
Several partnerships are aimed specifically at
enhancing the capacity of regional learning organi-  Multilateral Development Banks
zations. The African Virtual University (AVU), head-  Collaboration with MDBs such as the African De-
quartered in Nairobi, is one of these. In fiscal 2002  velopment Bank (see www.AfDB.org), the Asian
AVU strengthened the information technology      Development Bank (see www.ADB.org), the Inter-
capabilities at its 31 partner universities throughout  American Development Bank (see www.lADB.org),
Africa and is preparing for the launch of accredited  and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-
40      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



opment (see www.EBRD.com) intensified significantly,  BOX 2.4 WEB SITES: KNOWLEDGE SHARING
particularly in the aftermath of September 11.     AND PARTNERSHIPS
The presidents of the MDBs had regular consulta-
tions, leading to coordinated responses to the global  Knowledge Sharing
economic downturn and specific country issues and is-  Attacking poverty:
sued a joint statement on October 5, 2001. Building on  www.worldbank.org/wbi/attackingpoverty
established operational cooperation, now supported by  Country Analytic Work:
memoranda of understanding between the Bank and      .www.countryanalyticwork.net
most of the regional development banks, and on work  Development Forum:
done to harmonize operational policies and procedures,  www.worldbank.org/devforum
the MDBs embarked on a major new initiative-a col-  Development Gateway (focus on poverty
laboration on results-based management, including de-  reduction): www.developmentgateway.org
velopment of outcome indicators in country operations.  Global Development Learning Network:
A jointly hosted roundtable, "Measuring, Mon-      www.gdln.org
itoring, and Managing for Results," brought together  Global Knowledge Partnership:
developing- and industrial-country representatives,   www.globalknowledge.org
bilateral and multilateral institution representatives,  Information for Development Program:
and academics to discuss challenges in results-based  -  www.infodev.org
approaches and next steps to be taken jointly. They is-  Knowledge Sharing: www.worldbank.org/ks
sued a joint statement on March 19, 2002, in Monter-  World Links for Development (technology in
rey. In joint reports, MDBs articulated their role on the  education): www.worldbank.org/worldlinks
provision of global public goods and analyzed global
poverty and progress toward the MDGs, with a special  Thematic Topic-Focused Partnerships
focus on Africa. Work on harmonization of policies  Clean Air Initiative:
and procedures, involving MDBs and the Organisation   www.worldbank.org/wbi/cleanair
for Economic Co-operation and Development             www.worldbank.org/wbi/airelimpio
(OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC),        www.worldbank.org/wbi/arlimpo
progressed according to an agreed-on action plan   Health Flagship:
endorsed by the Bank's Development Committee.         www.worldbank.org/wbi/healthflagship
HIV/AIDS: www.worldbank.org/wbi/aidsleadership
Organisation for Economic Co-operation             World Business Council for Sustainable
and Development                                       Development Virtual University: www.wbcsd.ch
The partnership with OECD has deepened and broad-
ened considerably in recent years, with the objective of  Regional Capacity-Building Partnerships
maximizing complementary activities and synergies  African Capacity Building Foundation:
and minimizling duplication. Collaboration with the   www.acbf-pact.org
organization's DAC has been an especially important  African Virtual University: www.avu.org
focus of this partnership. DAC provides a forum for  Joint Africa Institute: www.ima-jai.org
OECD members to achieve, as bilateral donors, greater  Joint Vienna Institute: www.jvi.org
coherence and convergence in their development pro-  Mediterranean Development Forum:
grams. T he DAC Guidelines on Poverty Reduction       www.worldbank.org/wbi/mdf
have been the basis for the remarkable degree of con-
vergence and consensus among the bilateral donors for
the CDF-PRSP approach, who have expressed an inten-  digital divide. A partnership of the OECD, 13ank, and
tion to align aid programs within the PRSP framework  IMF initiated the establishment of an International Tax
and to untie their aid to least-developed countries. Be-  Dialogue to facilitate discussions and experience shar-
yond low-income countries, the Bank collaborates with  ing among government officials responsible for tax
the OECD on a broad agenda including trade, environ-  policy and administration, to the benefit of developing
ment, corporate governance, anticorruption, and the  and industrial countries alike.
Chapter 2 Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002  41



International Monetary Fund                      institutions throughout the country program cycle
Cooperation between the World Bank and IMF       through early collaboration, clear delineation of re-
intensified in fiscal 2002. The two institutions made  sponsibilities by designating the lead agency, and trans-
substantial progress in approving debt relief for heavily  parent reporting in Board documents of each institu-
indebted poor countries under the HIPC Initiative.  tion's views. Nonetheless, each institution remains
The executive boards approved debt reduction pack-  ultimately accountable for its own lending decisions
ages for 16 countries and discussed the poverty reduc-  and for safeguarding its resources. Under the PRSP
tion strategies of 29 countries. In the context of their  framework for low-income countries supported by the
cooperation, each organization is concentrating on its  Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, the
area of comparative advantage: the IMF is responsible  Bank and Fund are expected to work closely together
for the dialogue with country authorities on macro-  to support the implementation of a common country
economic and related structural issues, while the World  strategy while focusing their efforts on their respective
Bank takes the lead on social and structural issues.  areas of responsibility. For middle-income countries
In August 2001 the Boards of the Bank and Fund  there will be a need for greater flexibility to accommo-
agreed to strengthen Bank-Fund collaboration on  date variations in country circumstances, but benefits
country programs and conditionality. The strategy is  are expected from improved coordination and infor-
intended to strengthen collaboration between the two  mation sharing between the Bank and the Fund.
42      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



- ¢ ~~~~~~~~~~Chapter 3 -;0: 
_ Z , t ' . wf1                _    -
%^           ?    1     *            -~~ Development Effectiveness  ,   -
-|   00    {   i  0  - ,e a>
DXhSaL~~ 00     j .4S> i.Jo  -  00  r
0:li 0                                                         ^L
~~k~~~ll~S ^  ;  >- zd -1



Chapter 3
Development Effectiveness
The second half of the 20th century was a period of  15 percent in 1982 to about 7 percent in 1997. They
unprecedented progress in living standards at the  have worked to integrate more rapidly with the global
global level. Better technology, policies, and institu-  economy and have often seen benefits from doing so.
tions not only spurred rapid growth in the advanced  The two dozen developing countries that have inte-
economies-they also made possible substantial    grated most rapidly since 1980-which together have
improvemiients in the lives of poor people throughout  a population of about 3 billion people-have seen
much of the developing world. In this context, many  their annual growth rate of per capita gross domestic
countries have made great strides in development,  product (GDP) increase from less than 3 percent in
but others are still mired in war, epidemic disease, or  the t970s to 5 percent in the 1990s.
communal and political collapse.                    External development assistance has contributed to
In 2002 the World Bank published The Role anid  this progress, and indeed has become more effective
Fffectivetness of Developmenit Assistanicc: Lessonis fromz  over time in lifting people out of poverty. In maniy
World Batnk Experience, which examinied the develop-  countries internationial aid and advice have helped cre-
ment conmmunity's experience over the past 50 years.  ate the conditions for social development and a flour-
This study, prepared as a contribution to the March  ishing private sector. As evidence has mounted that aid
2002 Financing for Development Conferenice in    is most effective in countries with reasonably good
Monterrey, found that where countries have developed  policies, institutions, and governanice, the internationial
rapidly, the most important factors have been the poli-  community has improved its allocation of aid, and the
cies, institutions, and governance of the countries  estimated effectiveness of aid in poverty reductioni has
themselves. Development assistance cannot substitute  risen sharply.
for domestic commitment, but where aid has sup-     But not all developing cotLntries have enjoyed sLich
ported countries committed to development, it has  progress. For example, Africa as a region saw no in-
contributed markedly to development progress.    crease in its overall per capita income betweeni 1965
This development progress can be summarized in  and 1999, despite significant improvemenits in certain
some remarkable transformations. In the past four  social indicators. And in Africa and elsewhere, too
decades life expectancy in developing countries has in-  many countries have suffered deteriorations in eco-
creased by an unprecedented 20 years. In just the past  noinic and social conditions over long periods. The
three decades, adult illiteracy in the developing world  challenges are not just economic and technical but also
has been cut almost in half, from 47 to 25 percent. And  political, social, institutionial, and financial. Even in
in the past two decades the number of people living in  nullmerous countries that have worked hard to reform
abject poverty (defined as living on less than $1 a day)  policies (for example, by achieving macroeconomic
has finally begun to fall, by perhaps 200 million  stability and increasing openness and competition),
people-after rising through most of the 19th and 20th  an unfiniished agenda in governance and institutional
centLiries. (Figure 3.1 shows the proportion of people  reform has hampered economic growth and limited
living on1 less than $1 and $2 a day, by region.)  poverty reduction. External factors such as Organisa-
Developing countries themselves are largely respon-  tion for Economic Co-operation and Development
sible for this progress. They have taken many difficult  (OECD) agricultural subsidies and trade barriers have
steps to improve policies and institutions-for   impeded developing countries' efforts to integrate
example, by cutting their median inflation rate from  and develop. Mistakes by the donor commilunity-such
44      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 3.1 Population Living below $1 and $2 a Day
(percent)
Africa                                  East Asia and Pacific
50                                             50
50 47    .7                   ---_4.
39.3       27.6
25                                             25
23.9                                           13.8
14.2  -  - -      ~~~2.8
1990         1999                    2015      1990         1999                    2015
South Asia                               Europe and Central Asia
50 44                                          50
25                            *                25              19.3
22         96_                     _   ___     8.7
O                                  0 ~~1.6        36       _0^
090                                            0                 -        ---0.6
1990         1999                    2015      1990         1999                    2015
Latin America and the Caribbean                 Middle East and North Africa
50                                             50
38.1
------  ~ 33.1
--0. - - l - - - -        23.4                    29.9
25 1                               - 8  - -.   25 1*                     -
2.4          2.3                    1.2
90                                     8.4     0                 -                   2
1990         1999                    2015      1990         1999                    2015
-   Actual $1 a day poverty rate -  Average path to $1 a day target - - - Projected path ($1 a day)
-   Actual $2 a day poverty rate  -- Projected path ($2 a day)
Note: The graphs for Africa, East Asia and Pacif ic, and South Asia do not include figures for $2 a day.
Source: World Bank. 2002. World Development Indicators 2002. Washington, D.C.
as politically motivated aid allocation during the Cold  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The Bank
War-have also impeded development in some coun-      set out an analysis and an agenda for change in the
tries. Evaluation and research are essential, so that the  World Development Report 2000/200 1: Attacking
Bank and the development community can learn from    Poverty. In March 2002 the Poverty Reduction Group
both the successes and failures of the past 50 years.  reviewed progress in Poverty Reduction and the World
Bank. The following observations are based on this
PROGRESS ON THE MILLENNIUM                           work and the statistics published in the World
DEVELOPMENT GOALS                                    Development Inidicators 2002. It should be emphasized,
however, that data are poor in many cases, a problemn
As one indicator of development progress, the        discussed at length in the fall 2001 edition of the World
World Bank tracks country performance against the    Bank Research Observer.
Chapter 3 Development Effectiveness   45



Goal 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger
The percentage of the world's population living on less
than $1 per day fell from 29 percent in 1990 to 23 per-  ,   A '  'm      '
cent in 1999. However, almost all of the reduction in  , -
the number of people living in extreme poverty was      :                     i   !
in East Asia and Pacific, where China has made rapid
progress. In Europe and Central Asia the number and
proportion living in extreme poverty have increased.       .. ^
Elsewhere the poverty ratio has decreased, but the _
absolute number of people in dire poverty increased.  ,
The result has been little change in the number of
poor people in the world-about 1.2 billion. And the                   .                    e
number of people living on less than $2 per day, a   Goal 1: Eradicate extreme
more realistic poverty line in many countries,       poverty and hunger
increased from 2.7 billion to 2.8 billion from 1990
to 1999.                                            Figure 3.2 Prevalence of Child Malnutrition in
The World Bank's Global Economic Prospects 2002            Low- and Middle-income Economies
estimates that the proportion of the world's popula-          Weight for age
tion in extreme poverty could be halved by the MDG            (percent of children under age 5)
target date of 2015 if the growth rate of GDP per   50
capita in developing countries averages 3.6 percent                           -    Actual progress
a year for the next 15 years. This growth rate is twice  30.8                    to meet goal
the actual rate during the 1 990s. In Africa, where               28.2
growth is projected to be less than half the global  25
average, the number of people living in poverty will
increase.
Halving the proportion of undernourished and      0
malnourished people by 2015 will require concerted    1990        1998                       2015
action by the affected countries and the international  Note: Europe and Central Asia region is excluded.
Source: World Bank. 2002. World Development indicators 2002.
community. Many countries have made dramatic        Washington, D.C.
progress in reducing the proportion of underweight
children-one measure of malnutrition-during the
past three decades, but progress has slowed. In 2002
there are an estimated 150 million children under age
five in developing countries who are malnourished.  Approximately 80 developing countries have built a
At current rates of improvement there will still be  sufficient number of schools to place all of their
140 million underweight children in 2020.         primary-school-age children, but only about 27 retain
most of their students through to completion. Since
Goal 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education        1990, 1 7 developing countries have seen completion
The Education for All Conference, held in Jomtien,  rates stagniate or decline.
Thailand, in 1990, pledged to achieve universal pri-
mary education by 2000. But in 1999 there were still  Goal 3: Promote Gender Equality and
120 million primary-school-age children not in school,  Empower Women
three-quarters of whom live in South Asia or Africa.  In most low-income countries girls are less likely to at-
The MDGs set an ambitious target, for which there is a  tend school than boys. Reflecting this difference, female
strong commitment, of ensuring that all children can  youth literacy rates are lower than male youth liter-
enroll in and complete a full course of primary school-  acy rates in all regions except Latin America and the
ing by 2015. In many places schools fail to achieve  Caribbean. The MDGs seek to eliminate the gender gap
either objective. There can be large gaps between re-  in primary and secondary education by 2005, and at all
ported enrollment, attendance, and completion rates.  levels of educationi by 2015. Although the gender gap
46      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



I-1 ITT:Tr;lTO   .  increased. At the end of the 20th century only 37 devel-
!   I  '' 1".................. .   T . ' : ,  -   .. oping countries were making fast enough progress to
-P I  _            ' T '             reduce under-five child mortality to one-third of its
1990 level by 2015. The World Health Organization
(WHO) estimates that more than two-thirds of these
_  . ^   '$  i  .t,_ q.; -  deaths are caused by a combination of malnutrition
r     ~      . x ' ( and diseases that are readily preventable in high-
income countries. Vaccination is essential for reducing
child mortality, but in some parts of the world vaccina-
tion coverage has declined. In 1999, 55 countries had
not attained 80 percent measles vaccination of children
under one year of age; another 48 reported no data.
primary educ ation                               Goal 5: Improve Maternal Health
The goal is to reduce the maternal mortality ratio
Figure 3.3 Primary Completion Rate               by three-quarters between 1990 and 2015. Data on
(percentage of all children who
complete primary school)
100                        __ __ __ __ __ __
100  9086  9093      m1i99       19991
8       ~~87 86
80            ~78
63
60
49
*  44 45
40                    * X
20 
x C> x Sn S <- x > Gioal 3: Promote gender equality
,  _. E-  S Oand empower women
-~                             Figure 3.4 Ratio of Girls to Boys in Primary and
Source: Human Development Network Education Team. 2002. 'Achieving  Secondary Education in Low- and
Education for All by 2015: Simulation Results for 47 Low-income Countries."  M
World Bank, Washington, D.C.                                 Middle-income Economies
(percent)
100 |__ Actual progress |
95   -    Progress needed
narrowed in the 1990s, many countries in Africa and           to meet goal
South Asia will miss the first target date.
85
Goal 4: Reduce Child Mortality                        80
The goal is to reduce under-five child deaths by two-
thirds between 1990 and 2015. Deaths of infants and     1990                1998              2005
children decreased rapidly from 15 million per year  Note: The break in series between 1997 and 1998 is due to the change
in 1980 to about 11 million in 1990. Unfortunately  from ISCED76 to ISCED97.
Source: World Bank. 2002. World Development Indicators 2002.
progress slowed almost everywhere in the 1990s, and  Washington, D.C.
in parts of Africa, infant and child mortality rates
Chapter 3 Development Effectiveness  47



a   ~  * !   - ^   --I  incidence, by 2015. HIV/AIDS is having a devastating
- j   ,    s                  impact in developing countries, especially in Africa.
s   r     -      '                Major breakthroughs in prevention are needed in the
next few years if there is to be any hope of stabilizing,
[ 4                 t*                     -    s L 1-t ,  -  .............. let alone reversing, the epidemic by 2015. Approxi-
,, .;,§i!jit               and so far, about 20 million people have died from the
- disease. Malaria is endemiiic in more than 100 countries
and affects approximately 300 million people each year.
-'uberculosis is the main cause of death from a single
infectious agent among adults in developing countries.
*  --  '---- -- - Over the past decade its incidence has grown rapidly
Goal 4: Reduce child mortality                   in several regions. Based on present trends there will
be about 10 millioni new cases in 2005. The directly
Figure 3.5 Mortality Rate in Low- and Middle-
Income Economies
Children under 5 years of age
(number per thousand)                   I
100 88              84     -   Actual progress                                        -
80                        -   Progress needed
to meet goal           . 
60
40                                         9
20
01990          1999          2008       2015
Source: World Bank. 2002. World Development Indicators 2002.
Washington, D.C.
Goal 5: Improve maternal health
maternal mortality are in many instances unavailable
or unreliable. In 1995 WHO estimated that more than
0.5 million women died from complications of preg-   Figure 3.6 Births Attended by Skilled Health Staff
nancy and childbirth, more than half of them in Africa.        (percentage of total)
In Rwanda, for example, the maternal mortality ratio  90
was 2,300 per 100,000 births. In high-incomile counitries  74                                    8
it is typically less than 10. Many actions are needed,
including a reduction in the number of closely spaced                                            63
pregnancies, better nLtrition and care during preg-      49                                      49
nancy, and better availability of skilled birth attendants  44
and emergency facilities.                                                                        44
39
30
Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and                   1989
Other Diseases                                        I-_Asia    -Latin America & the Caribbean
Other~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Africae                         -   ideEs &NrhArc
The Millennium Declaration resolved to halt the          Afrca     Middle East & North Africa
spread of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired       Note. U.N. regions.
Source: World Health Organization, U.N. Children's Fund, and
immune deficiency syndromie(HIV/AIDS), malaria,       U.N. Population Fund estimates.
and other major diseases, and begin to reverse their
48      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



and well-being of poor people. It can also reduce the
AUY80D"CAn GT                  -      risk of natural disastcrs from storms and floods. Access
to clean water is important for controllinig diarrheal
diseases, and better drainage reduces malaria; both are
major causes of child mortality. The World SuLmmit
i ;. b!N! --, on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in August 2002
i -.                     !   8 - 1 LF is expected to produce implemenitation frameworks
anchored in the MDGs, reflecting time-bound
,-_.  -   AREF                      commllitments from governmllenits, the private sector,
it  -  _   M~TKE CARE
and civil society. Building on the accomplishmenlts of
the Monterrey conference on Financing for Develop-
ment, the WSSD is focused on applications in key
areas relevant to the accomplishment of the MDGs-
agricultural growth, sustainable energy, health and
Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS,                         the environment, and sustainable managemiienit of nat-
malaria, and other diseases                      ural resources. The World Developmiient Report 2003:
Sulstainiable DevelopmIen1t in a Dynamic Vorl rd addresses
Figure 3.7 Prevalence of HIV/AIDS among Young    these issues.
People Ages 15 to 24,1999
(percent)                              .L .
10      M                                 9.2                       -,      -   -L--
8   = Female
6
4.54
4
2
0.190.16  0. '     . 67-0.3  0 290r48
East Asia  Europe &  Latin  South   Africa
& Pacific  Central  America &  Asia
Asia the Caribbean
Note: No data for the Middle East and North Africa region or for females
in the Europe and Central Asia region.
Source: World Bank. 2002. Worfd Development Indicators 2002.  Goa 0 7: Ensure environmental
Washington, ..                                       Gol7oc.r              evrnm      na
sustainability
Figure 3.8 Access to an Improved Water Source
in Low- and Middle-Income
observed treatmienit, short course (DOTS) protocol           iEconomies
has proven effective, but in 1999 less than half the          (percentage of population with access)
population in the 23 countries most affected had
access to it.                                       100       A   lg
-Actual progress|
-   Progress needed
Goal 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability          90      to meet goal
The MDGs call on the world to reverse the loss of envi-                                        86
ronmental resources, halve the proportion of people
without access to safe drinking water, and achieve a sig- 80
nificant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million
slumdwellers. Sustainable environmental policies are  7°1 90         1999          2008       2015
important because the environment provides goods
Source: World Bank. 2002. World Development Indicators 2002.
and resources needed for human development. Better  Washington, D.C.
natural resource management can increase the income
Chapter 3 Development Effectiveness  49



regimes in developing countries. This is the essence of
the Monterrey consensus: developing countries take re-
sponsibility for their own development programs and
set in place the policies that will put them on track to
achieve the MDGs, and bilateral and multilateral agen-
cies will work together to support them and create a
-v3 ,,|rK ^ global environment conducive to poverty reduction
and growth.
ASSESSING DEVELOPMENT EFFECTIVENESS
World Bank Impact
When assessing the effectiveness of the Bank's work,
-  t      '9iit is important to recognize that one of the most im-
portant roles of the World Bank is to be an agent of
,      '     -   -   l I                   change, through analysis and advice, as well as lending.
Goal 8: Develop a global                        In many countries the resource flows from the World
partnership for development                     Bank-and even official development assistance
(ODA) flows more broadly-are not large enough for
Figure 3.9 Aid to Low- and Middle-income         the money aloine to make a major difference relative
Economies                              to the scale of the challenge. ODA totaled about
(billions of dollars)                  $54 billion in 2000. This was only one-third as much as
the private foreign direct investment flowing to devel-
40                                               oping countries, which in turn made up only about
30                              =                one-tenth of those countries' total investment of nearly
20                                               $1.5 trillion. Similarly, the Bank usually lends about
10                 |-   Low-income economies     $1 billion per year in direct assistance to the education
10                  - Middle-income economies   sector (plus additional assistance through program-
1990               1995               2000    matic lending with education-related conditions),
Note: In 1999 dollars. Includes both official development assistance and  compared with annual public education spending in
official aid. Amounts not specifically allocated to countries are distributed  the developing world of more than $250 billion. There-
proportionately to low- and middle-income totals.
Source: World Bank. 2002. World Development Indicators 2002.  fore when the international financial institutions and
Washington, D.C.                                 other donors have had major effects on development,
it is because their assistance has gone beyond mere
resource transfer and has helped countries to make
fundamental changes-for example, through building
Goal 8: Develop a Global Partnership              institutions or through demonstration projects that
for Development                                   have been replicated widely.
This goal is about the means to achieve the first seven  These fundamental and wide-ranging changes are
MDGs and calls on high-income countries to join with  typically more difficult to trace to particular donor
developing countries to ensure fair and open trading  actions or projects than are traditional project out-
and financial systems, better market access for the least  comes, especially when governments are the prime
developed countries, improved debt sustainability,  movers behind reform. Nevertheless, the need to con-
and increased development assistance. It is clear that  tinue to improve results means that good evaluation
business-as-usual will likely fail to achieve the MDGs  and management for results are essential. The World
by 2015. The World Bank has called for rich countries  Bank recently launched an initiative to enhance the
to provide increased aid, to open their markets, and to  results orientation of its activities. Working with the
cut their domestic agricultural subsidies. At the same  other multilateral development banks (African Devel-
time, the Bank has committed its support for improve-  opment Bank, Asian Development Bank, European
ments in weak policy, institutional, and governance  Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and Inter-
50      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



American Development Bank) and in cooperation with     mlent Effectiveness (ARDE). OED reports to the
the Dcvelopmcnt Assistance Committee of the OECD,      Board on the status of all evaluation activities
the Bank cohosted an international Roundtable on       across the Bank Group through the Annuial Rcport
Better Measuring, Monitoring, and Managing for         on Operations Evaluation, and tracks manage-
Development Results on June 5-6, 2002. The Round-      ment's responses to major evaluationi recommen-
table explored the strategic context for results-based  dations. It also supports evaluation capacity devel-
development, the challenges of day-to-day manage-      opment in client countries.
ment for development results, and the role of inde-  *  The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) mon-
pendent evaluation in institutional accountability and  itors the quality of the Bank's activities during im-
learning. It established a platform for follow-up by   plementation to facilitate better management. It
both the Bank and partner agencies.                    examines project quality for both loans (shortly
The Bank has engaged partners more broadly in its   after project approval by the Board) and advisory
work on knowledge development, including experts       services (after delivery to country clients). It also
drawn from academic and research institutions, the     monitors the quality of supervision of projects
private sector, and nongovernmenital organizations     and reports to the Board on the overall health of
(see Drive to Partnerslhip: Aid Coordination and the   the portfolio of ongoing projects through the
World Bank, April 2001). 'T'he Bank holds workshops,   "Annual Report on Portfolio Performance." QAG's
conducts external reviews, and uses other mecha-       work is in addition to that of the quality assurance
nisms to draw upon the knowledge and experience        teams maintained by the operational vice presi-
of partners and staff to help it design its strategies and  dencies. In 2002 QAG has two experimlental
activities.                                            assessments under way: a study to look at the
Frank and open disclosure and dissemination of the  relevance and coherence of entire programs of
Bank's papers contributes substantially to the intellec-  advisory and learning activities in a country, and
tual resources of the development community. Recent    a pilot study to examine the effectiveness of the
reviews by the Evaluation Cooperation Group, com-      work of the Bank's Sector Boards. The experience
prising the heads of the evaluation offices of the major  of these pilots will be used for a possible main-
multilateral development banks, concluded that the     streaming in fiscal 2003.
World Bank is generally their exemplar of best prac-  *  The Internal Auditing Department assists Bank
tices in evaluation.                                   managemenit in establishing and maintaining
Analysis and advice is a core business of the World  sound risk management and internal controls. It
Bank. This shows itself in the strong analytical capabili-  achieves this through the delivery of an integrated
ties of mainstream operational divisions. The couLntry  audit service that provides an objective assurance
economists and other professional staff, for example,  to managemenit as to the adequacy and effective-
play a vital analytic role, as do the specialists within the  ness of the Bank's risk management and internal
Bank thematic networks. There is an extensive research  controls and any need for improvement, and ad-
program, leading to publications such as the World     vice on the identification, control, and manage-
Developmuent Report and World Developnment Indicators.  ment of risk, especially as it concerns issues related
The Bank has also developed specialized units with     to the design, implementation, and operation of
responsibility for evaluation of effectiveness and risk  internal control systems. The Department carries
control, including the following:                      out an annual business risk analysis and prepares
the detailed annual work program, which is part of
*   The Bank has an Operations Evaluation Depart-      a three-year plan that covers high-risk areas. The
ment (OED) that is independent of management,      three-year plan is revised and approved by the
reporting directly to the Board of Executive       Bank's president and endorsed by the Audit Com-
Directors. OED carries out four main types of      mittee each year. The Department performs its
evaluations: sector and thematic reviews, country  work in accordance with the Standards for the
assistance evaluations (CAEs), project reviews,    Professional Practice of Internal Auditing of the
and process reviews. Each year evidence from all   Institute of Internal Auditors.
these evaluations is marshaled to produce a    *   In fiscal 2001 the Bank established a Quality
summary report, the Annu(al Review of Develop-     Assurance and Compliance Unit in its
Chapter 3 Development Effectiveness  51



Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Devel-  nesses that required continuinig action. Every year the
opment Vice Presidency to enisure the conisistenit  SRM Vice Presidency produces a strategy uipdate that
implemilenitationi of safeguard policies, such as the  reviews progress against the Bank's objectives, priori-
policy on indigenious people or the policy on in-  ties, and commitmenits.
voluntary resettlement, and to give advice on safe-
guard issues in projects. Safeguard coordinators  Independent Evaluation
with dedicated fuLiding have been appointed in  At the project level, each ICR is reviewed by OED.
each region. In 2002 the safeguard policies are  In addition, OED conducts field assessments for one-
being updated.                                  quarter of completed projects each year, and a small
*   In November 2000 the Corporate Committee on     number of impact evaluations for projects completed
Fraud and Corruptioll Policy was created to en-  5 to 10 years earlier. 'I'his work also provides the build-
sure that the 13ank Group develops anticorruption  ing blocks of project knowledge and performiaice that
policies and strategies that contribute effectively to  contribute to coulitry, sector, and thematic evaluations.
its poverty reduction goals. Tlie B3ank's corruption  OED presents to the lBoard an ARDE, which reviews
and fraud investigationi unit is now knowvn as the  the performanice of completed projects and discusses
Department of Institutional Integrity (INT). INT  development challenges faced by the Bank. The theme
investigates any allegations of fraud and corrup-  of the fiscal 2001 ARDE was the importance of select-
tion within the Bank Group or in coniectioni with  ing the right developmeint instrumilenit for a given COUn1-
Bank-financed contracts, and any allegations of  try situation and development objective.
unethical behavior by Bank staff. In addition, the  OED's CAEs concentrate on the developimienit effec-
Ethics Office reports directly to the 13ank's Ilresi-  tiveness of the Bank's enitire program of assistance to
dent and is responsible for outreach and        each country. They provide opportullities to assess
comImlunlicationis oil ethics matters.          lendinig and advisory services in the context of the
country assistance strategy (CAS). In fiscal 2002 nine
Self-Evaluation                                     CAEs were under-taken. A major findinig from these
'I'he Bank relies on self-evaluation validated by inde-  studies is that the overall impact of the B1ank's work in
pendenit evaluationi. 'Task maniagers must produce an  a country is often greater thani a simple aggregation of
Implemilenitationi Completion Report (ICR) for each  the results of individual projects.
operation. These reports are the B3ank's maini self-   OED sector and themilatic evaluations address issues
evaluation and learning tool. The Balik also conducts  that cut across Banik operations, such as the effective-
Country Portfolio Performance Reviews. The regional  ness of dialogue between borrowers and the Bank on
managemilenit teams use these to engage borrowers in  policies and on project selection, design, and imple-
discussions about the periormanice of the whiole port-  mentation. Many of these studies compare experiences
folio of Bank operations in a country. These discus-  across countries.
sions address both the accountability issues that affect  OED conducts special studies to review the Bank's
the performance of individual operationis and those  performance and experienice in an economilic sector
that are systemic in nature. The performanice of the  or thematic area over 5 to 1t) vears and reports on
Bank's entire portfolio is assessed in the "Aninlual  developmenit effectiveness and on complianice with
Review of Portfolio Performanice."                  Banlk policy. To maximilze the impact of sector and the-
The Bank has siginificantly increased self-evaluations  matic evaluations, these studies are, to the exteilt possi-
of its products and services in receint years. The Opera-  ble, scheduled prior to a revisioil of the related Sector
tions Policy and Country Services Vice Presidency,  Strategy Paper (SSP). Sector and thenmatic evaluations
working jointly withi other network vice presidencies,  completed by OED in 2001 and 2002 included "'l'he
periodically assesses select clieiit services aind products,  Gender Dimensioni of Bank Assistance: An Evaluation
aind assists the regions in iillplemilenitinig recoimnmeilda-  of Results"; "Promoting Enviroililenital Sustainability
tions for improvement. The Strategy and Resource    in Developmenit: An Evaluation of the World Bank's
Malagemient (SRM) Vice Presidency assesses the effec-  Performance"; and "Social Funds: A Review of World
tiveness of resotirce use. Its "Asscssment of the Strategic  Baink Experience."
Compact," completed in fiscal 2001, evaluated the      The thematic evaluation titled "i'he Gender Diillen-
achieveilenits tinder the Compact and identified weak-  sion of Bank Assistance: Ani Evaluation of Results,"
52      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



completed in fiscal 2002, examined Bank assistance in  mental resources and often have delivered small-scale
12 counltries. Key findinigs were that Bank assistance  projects in poor communiiities well (altlhouiglh project
was satisfactory in the health and education sectors  performance has varied considerably). The review also
but weak in promoting the economic participation   found that projects have been less successful in achiev-
of women and in imlproving national institutional  iig lasting imiprovemenits or in facilitating institutionial
frameworks for gender equity. The study called for bet-  development. It suggests better integrating social funds
ter integration of gender considerations into the Bank's  into poverty reduction strategies, paying more atten-
CASs and into the design of Bank-supported projects  tion to long-term implicationis, and having clearer cri-
so that both men and women are able to access the  teria for supporting such funds. The findinigs of this re-
benefits equitably, especially in countries with high  view are being incorporated into future project designs
gender disparities. These lessons were incorporated  and are among the inputs to the social developmenit
into the SSP, "Integrating Gender into the World Bank's  SSP, forthcoming in fiscal 2004.
Work: A Strategy for Action." Among other interven-   OED is carrying out an evaluation of global pro-
tions, the strategy recommended the gradual rollout  grams and policies, which address critical development
of country gender assessments in all active Bank client  problems that affect many counltries (such as environ-
countries over the next few years, to underpin CASs  mental degradation, the spread of commllullicable dis-
and project work.                                  eases, and the digital divide). To this end, OED and
The study" Promotinig Environmental Sustainability  B3ank partners convenied an internationial conference
in Development: An Evaluation of the World Bank's  on evaluation of global public policies and programris in
Performance" found that the Bank has made valuable  July 2000. A groundbreaking evaluation stLdy of global
contributionis to environmiienital work. It has played a  public policy was initiated at that conierenice and is
leading role in addressing global issues, helped maniy  currently under way.
governments build environmental institutions and
programs, mitigated the negative effects of its develop-  OPERATIONS QUALITY
ment interventions, produced high-quality policy
analysis and economic and sector work (ESW), and   In fiscal 2002 the fourth "Quality-at-Entry Assessmenlt"
promoted awareness of the linkages between the envi-  by the World Bank's QAC. rated 94 percent of opera-
ronmenit and development. The evaluationi, however,  tions as satisfactory or better. This is 12 percentage
found that environmiienital sustainability has not fea-  points higher than in the first annlual assessment.
tured adequately in either the Bank's core objectives  Six of eight quality dimensionis improved comiipar ed
or in its country and sector strategies. The linkages  with the previous year. Only two dimlensions-risk
between macroeconomic policy, poverty alleviation,  assessment and managemenit, and implementation
and environmental sustainability have not been made  arrangemiients-have yet to reach 85 percent satisf-ac-
sufficiently explicit. In response to the recommenda-  tory. Nevertheless, some inconsistencies in the design
tions of this OED sector review, the Bank Group's new  of operations were noted, as well as some rigidities in
environmiiient SSP, "Making Sustainable Commitmiients,"  applying fiduciary rules and a tendency to shy away
outlines a comprehensive institutional effort to main-  from components that might trigger review under the
stream environmental considerations in CASs.       Bank's safeguard policies. Overall, there have been
The second thematic evaluation was "Social Funds:  robust gains in the quality of Bank operations.
A Review of World Bank Experience." Social funds      QAG also reports that both commitments-at-risk
projects create autonomous iniplementing agencies to  and projects-at-risk fell to about 12 percent of the
finance small projects based on proposals submitted by  portfolio in fiscal 2001, less than half the level five years
local groups. Most social funds are set up temporarily  ago. However the "Annual Review of Project Perfor-
to channel resources to needy communities during a  mance" warns that the current at-risk system may be
crisis. However, virtLtally all Bank-supported social  understating the true level of risk and that more candid
funds are still in operation, have been supported by  project supervision reports and ratings are needed.
successive Bank loans and grants from other donors,  QAG completed "Supervision Quality of Risky Proj-
and have assumed longer-termii objectives. The evalua-  ects" in April 2002, which states that supervision was
tion found that the funds have responded effectively  less than satisfactory for almost one-quarter of projects
in emergencies. Thev have mobilized nongovern-     that had been rated at risk, significantly wvorse than for
Chapter 3 Development Effectiveness  53



the portfolio as a whole, and that routine ratings for  the wvork of the Bank in partnership with its clients.
projects at risk are not always realistic. The maniage-  However, gains have been unleveni. For example, strate-
ment is following up on1 the QAG recommllenidations to  gic relevance is very strong at 97 percent satisfactory,
help improve the supervision of risky projects. QAG is  but the likely impact is weaker at 76 percent. Bank
also working with the Banlk's regions to refine the cur-  processes, at only 66 percent satisfactory, and peer
rent portfolio iiidicators to improve realism of project  review processes need strengtheninig. Coverage of
ratings. (Figures 3.10 through 3.12 show the Bank's    poverty reduction issues in ESW has improved, with
currenit portfolio by region, theme, and sector.)      82 percent rating satisfactory. Having had four vears'
The fourth annual report on the "Quality of Eco-    experience in assessing the quality of ESW, QAG has
nomic and Sector Work Fiscal 2001 " notes that overall  recently conducted a review of its methodologies and
quality was rated satisfactory, or better, for 91 percent  the costs and benefits of its assessmenits. I'he review has
of tasks, and that, while this excellent result partly  suggested moving toward assessment of country and
reflects the continuing cleanup of operationis in the  thematic programs of analytical and advisory activities
pipeline, it also shows a solid general improvemiient in  by fiscal 2004.
RESULTS
Figure 3.10 Active Project Portfolio by Region
as of June 30, 2002                        The outcomes of Bank projects that were completed in
Share of total lending of $102.1 billion   fiscal 2001 are among the best recorded in two decades.
The long-term trcnd shows a decline in performance
South Asia 17%     <      tIca 15%from 1977 to 1989 and a strong rebound sincc. TIhe
target of 75 percent of projects having satisfactory out-
Middle East &                                      comes, originlally set in the Bank's Strategic Compact
North Africa 5%                                      in 1995, has beeni met. In the first half of fiscal 200 1,
82 percent of projects reaching completion had satis-
East Asia &  factory outcomes, only slightly beloxv the peak of
Pacific 25%
Latin America &                                     84 percenit in 1999. Figure 3.13 shows satisfactory
the Caribbean 22%  a  lY                               project outcomes from 1974 to 2001.
The theme of the 2001 ARDE by OED states that
Europe & Central           the right combinationl and sequenicinig of activities in a
Asia 16%
Figure 3.11 Active Project Portfolio by Theme          Figure 3.12 Active Project Portfolio by Sector
as of June 30, 2002                                    as of June 30, 2002
Share of total lending of $102.1 billion               Share of total lending of $102.1 billion
Environmental &   Economic Management 1 %              Water, Sanitation &    Agriculture, Fishing &
Natural Resource       Public Sector Governance 8%    Flood Protection 10%     Forestry 9%
Management 15%               ule of Law                                                   Law & Justice &
Transportation     .    '             Administration
Financial &2                                           5
Rural a        '             -   Private Sector
Development                        -    Development                                            Information &
14%                              19%                                                    Communication
1%
Education 9%
N     y Trade &               Energ
Urban                         Integration
Development                         3%                  Mining 12%                      Finance 6%
13%                    Social Protection &        Industry & Trade 5%/-
Human                                                          Health & Other
Development        Risk Management 6%                               Social Services 13%
11 %    Social Development,
Gender & Inclusion 8%
54       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 3.13 Satisfactory Project Outcomes,                 Figure 3.14 Trends in Institutional Development
1974-2001                                                  Impact
(percent)                                                  (percent substantial or better)
100                                                        70
80                                                        60                                               -
50-
60
40
40
30
20
0F                                                       20                                -+- By projects
F'Y{74     FY80       FY86       FY92      FY98 FY01     10                                 -- By disbursements
Note: Includes only lending operations.                       FY90                   FY95                  FY00 FY01
Source: OED calculations.
Note: Data refer to independent evaluation assessments by OED of projects
that have completed their loan disbursement phase and have exited the Bank's
active lending portfolio. Results for fiscal 2001, based on all currently available
independent assessments, as reported in the Annual Report for Development
Effectiveness 2001.
given setting can make the difference between success
and failure. Choice of instrument is complex because       Figure 3.15 Trends in Sustainability
of the diversity of member countries and objectives                     (percent likely or better)
and because of the wide range of Bank instruments
and possible partners. Being wisely selective is key.      80
With regard to institutional development impact,        70                                                 -
52 percent of projects completed during fiscal 2001        60                                                S.
achieved a rating of substantial or better, an improve-    50
ment of 15 percentage points over the fiscal 1996 to       40
1999 average. This result is the best on record, weighted  30
either by the number of projects or by size of disburse-   20                          -4-_ By project-3-point scale
ments. Figure 3.14 identifies the trends in institutional  10| -*- By project-4-point scale
development impact.                                         0
Seventy-one percent of projects completed during
fiscal 2001 were rated as likely or highly likely to be re-  Note: Data refer to independent evaluation assessments by OED of projects
that have completed their loan disbursement phase and have exited the Bank's
silient to future risks using a recently introduced four-  active lending portfolio. Results for fiscal 2001, based on all currently available
point scale. However, the operating environmillent has     independent assessments, as reported in the Annual Report for Deve/opment
become more risky and there is some question whether
gains will be durable. Figure 3.15 identifies trends in
sustainability of projects.
Project Performance, by Sector
Transportation, education, and public sector manage-
PROJECT AND LOAN PERFORMANCE                               ment are the best performing sectors for projects
reaching completion in fiscal 2000-01, while the energy
Project Performance, by Region                             sector continues to lag. T he high ratings for projects in
Project outcomes in all regions continue to improve.       the transportation sector are partially due to improved
Projects in Africa show the largest improvement, up        borrower financial resources, together with improved
19 percentage points since 1999 to 71 percent in fiscal    budget allocations for maintenance. Figure 3.17 shows
2001. On the negative side, average outcomes ratings       trends in project outcomes by sector.
for projects in the Middle East and North Africa may
deteriorate over the next few years, since QAG ratings     Performance of Adjustment and Investment Loans
of those projects currently under implementation show      Satisfactory outcomes of adjustment operations
higher-than-normal risk. Figure 3.16 shows trends in       fell from 82 percent for fiscal 1996-99 exits to 79 per-
project outcomes for Africa and other regions.             cent for fiscal 2000-01 when weighted by nmLber of
Chapter 3 Development Effectiveness       55



Figure 3.16 Trends in Outcomes for Africa and                  Figure 3.18 All Adjustment Lending
Other Regions                                                  (percent satisfactory outcomes)
(percent satisfactory by project)
100
100                                                             90
90
80                       6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~80
70                                                             70
50                                                             5
40
40
30
20                                                             30
20  Africa       |
10                              -     Other regions            20
0   F-4- By projects
FY96     FY97    FY98     FY99    FY00     FY01           10                                 4   By disbursements
Note: Data refer to independent evaluation assessments by OED of projects  0
that have completed their loan disbursement phase and have exited the Bank's  FY96  FY97  FY98    FY99      FY00     FY01
active lending portfolio Results for fiscal 2001, based on all currently available  Note: Data refer to independent evaluation assessments by OED of projects
independent assessments, as reported in the Annual Report for Development  that have completed their loan disbursement phase and have exited the Bank's
active lending portfolio. Results for fiscal 2001, based on all currently available
independent assessments, as reported in the Annual Report for Development
Effectiveness 2001
Figure 3.17 Trends in Outcomes by Sector,
Select Sectors
(percent)                                       large loan coming to completioni. For example, the out-
come of a $1 billion operation can make a difference of
100              WM FY96-99     0   FYOO-01   m   Active       up to 4 percentage points in the outcome for the whole
90                                                           Bank in that year. In fiscal 2001 the unsatisfactory per-
80                                                           formance of two adjustment loans to Russia signifi-
70                                                           cantly dampenied the Bank's overall outcome rating.
60                                                           This volatility is likelv to continue given the nuiber of
50                                                           large adjustment loans in the active portfolio. As risk
40                                  lmanagemenlt in the Bank receives more attention,
30    limaniagers are considering additional quality assuranice
20                                                           arrangements for such large projects. Figure 3.18 shows
10                                                           performance of adjustmenit lending overall.
0 _  _ _at_After a static period of performianice scores in the
.o  ° 2<  o o   >                s late 1990s, outcomres for investment projects have
slowni signiificanit recen t i mprovemenits. The percent-
< : c  S        =        age of investment projects vith satisfactory outcomlies
rose from 69 percent in fiscal 1999 to 78 percent in fis-
cal 2001. Figure 3.19 shows performance of all invest-
Note: Sectors in this table do not reflect the new coding system implemented
in fiscal 2002. Data refer to independent evaluation assessments by OED  Iimenlt lendinig.
of projects that have completed their loan disbursement phase and have
exited the Bank's active ending portfolio. Results for fiscal 2001, based on all
currently available Independent assessments, as reported in the Annual
Report for Development Effectiveness 2001.                     BANK SELECTIVITY         BORROWER
COMMITMENT, AND CAPACITY
projects, and from 87 percent to 70 percent wvhen              Experience suggests that borrowver capacitv and com-
weighted by disbursemiienits. Performanice weighted by         mitmiienit are critical for development effectiveness.
disbursemlients xvas volatile. One should note that the        Selectivity based on a countr-y's policy environmen1t
outcome data, weighted by disbursemenits, can be               and capacity is therefore an importanit considerationi
strongly iilflueniced in a particular year by a single very    in the Bank's decisions on wvhat type of support is most
56        The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 3.19 All Investment Lending                       *   A weak policy and institutional environment comn-
(percent: satisfactory outcomes)                 promises the effectiveness of both lending and
nonlendinig interventions, and calls for a nuanced
100                                                          selection of instruments. The outcomes of projects
90                                               00         are closely correlated with the Bank's Country Pol-
80                                            -             icy and Institutional Asscssment (CPIA) ratings,
as is the success rate of individual instrumnents. In
0weak country environmiienlts, signified by low CPIA
60                                                          ratings, simple project designs-or a series of sim-
50                                                          ple interventions-provide better results than
40                                                          complex, multifaceted undertakinigs. Even if lend-
ing is constrained by poor performance, carefully
30                                                          selected nonlending activities can be useful, espe-
20                                                          ciallv in keeping the Bank prepared for possible
10_* By projects            re-engagemienit.
1 0                              _4-- By disbursements
0
FY96     FY97    FY98     FY99     FY00    FY01    MANAGEMENT IMPLICATIONS
Note: Data refer to independent evaluation assessments by OED of projects
that have completed their loan disbursement phase and have exited the Bank's  In the continuing drive to enhanice the impact of dev-
active lending portfolio. Results for fiscal 200t, based on all currently available
independent assessments, as reported in the Annual Report for Development  elopniienit assistanice on poverty reductioni atld growtlh,
Effectiveness 2001.                                      the 2001 ARDE nioted areas in which the Banik can
improve by making the right choice of activity.
The ARDE states that the Banik's best practice in
appropriate. The Bank distitiguishes between couLntries  regard to each instruLmient should be standardized to a
that require and cani absorb high volumes of lendinig    greater extent than in the past. TIhe otigoitig update oti
asid those where a large lending program would be        adjuistment lending, to be followed by a similar process
counterproductive; in this latter group of countries,    for investment lending, will offer a good opportLtiity
capacity building ancl advisory services, along with     to do this.
well-targeted grants, are the primary intervention.         The Bank is devoting rentived attention to achiev-
Despite improvements over the past decade, there is      ing better results in countries with poor policy and
still scope for improving perfortiiatice through in-     institutional etivironmenits, with a curretit focus on
creased selectivity at all levels of Bank assistance: the  nioillending support. The 2001 ARDE presents evalua-
individual instrunient, the country assistanice program,  tioil findings that are gertimaie to this difficult task.
and the Banik's global, sectoral, and thematic priorities.  Recognizing the significant performance differetitial
The 2001 ARDE review of selectivity has identified       across instruments is an imilportant first step. In addi-
three themes conimon to the project, sector, and coun-   tion, siiiiple projects are best when coutitry capacity is
try levels of analysis.                                  liniited. Nonfinancial activities and pilot projects may
be useful in poorly performing countries even when
*   Good diagnosis, provided by high-quality ESW, is     clients are not actively borrowiiig.
critical in establishing realistic development objec-   Implementation of sector strategies within coun-
tives. CASs, sector strategies, and operational      tries requires clarity about the country's developtiietit
guidance all inifortii the matching of instruments   objectives as well as a good understanding of the pre-
with objectives in light of country and sector       vailing conditions. Adjustmenit lending, supported as
characteristics.                                     necessary by capacity-building assistance, is more effec-
*   The choice of instrument should reflect not only     tive when national ownership and consensus on sector
the objectives of the individual operation but also  reforms are strong, and wvhen monitoring and evalua-
past perforiiiance in the country and sector con-    tion arrangenients are in place. In sectors where these
text. Appropriate sequencing atid tappitig of comn-  prerequisites are lacking, progratiimatic investment
plementarities among instrunients improve            lending tiiay be preferable, supported by Learnitig atid
outconies.                                           Iitiovatioti Loans, and targeted to capacity building.
Chapter 3 Development Effectiveness      57



On the other hand, implementation of the Bank's    The magnitude of the challenge as articulated in
cross-cutting, thematic objectives depends less on the  the MDGs is daunting and will continue to grow as
use of specific lending instruments than on genuine  developing countries' populations grow by an esti-
mainstreaming of these operational emphases across  mated 2 billion over the next 30 years. A new interna-
all instruments, on the strategic application of safe-  tional commitment and increased understanding of
guards, and on partnerships.                       development effectiveness means that the scale of re-
In its Strategic Forum 2002, senior managers from  sponse can rise to meet the challenge. The response,
the Bank Group focused on six areas that are key. The  as articulated in the Monterrey Consensus, involves
Bank will therefore address them in the coining years.  reforms in developing countries themselves as well as
They include a sharp focus on the MDGs, assisting  in the international economy, particularly in the areas
clients to build good investment climates, finding ways  of trade and aid.
to assist low-income countries under stress, improving  For external donor agencies such as the Bank, the
knowledge services as a complement to lending, align-  overriding importance of promoting change requires
ing staff skills wvith Bank strategy, and improving the  an increased focus on partnerships, along with policy
measurement of results.                           analysis and financial support.
58      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



A 4-~                            
?~~~~Y ~~~~~~ ~Chapter4
ftet      mao         i   M .                                 Thematic Perspectives-
Addressing the Social, Institutional
and Economic Dimensions of Poverty.  '- 60>`
Investing in People                 -    63
Z 2 = Ri(d  bB  Promoting Environmentally.'  
and Socially Sustainable Development   67
-Supporting Private Sector Development.
and Infrastructure. -                  70
0  I 0DA                             Building Strong Financial Systems        74
Promoting:the Rule of Law                77
Xg& ?'-y                   .Om-



Addressing the Social, Institutional,
-:              and Economic Dimensions of Poverty
In fiscal 2002 the World Bank intenisified its efforts to  .  -
help countries address social, structural, and economic     - ~              -' --
aspects of poverty, in particular by ensurinig that its            --X                 :
support for poverty reduction reflected the prior-ities
of developing coulitries themselves and by workinig
to sharpetn the impact of its own work on fighting
poverty. 
STRATEGY
Sustained economic growth remainis critical for     _     ,                              h
poverty reductioll. Withotit it, poor people's prospects ,r
for greater opportunity, empowerment, and security-
essential elemenits of the strategy for poverty reduc-
tion described in the WVorld Development Rcport
2000/2001-will be harder to rcalize. Thus growth is
a necessary condition for attacking poverty-but it is  Poverty is a call to action, a cail to change the world so that maniy more
nlot a sufficienit one. Banik poverty reduction  ..tivities   may have enough to eat, adequate shelter access to education anid
iotasuffkpoverty reduIction activitis  health, protection from violence, and a voice in what happens in their
therefore extend beyond supporting growthi in memilber  communities
countries to fostering poor coulitries' leadership in
poverty reduction strategy makinlg, addressing gender
inequalities, investing in poor people and empowering  Other Bank work related to PRSPs in fiscal 2002 in-
themii, supporting key aspects of good governance and  cluded expansioni of a learninlg agenda for clients (in-
institutionial reform, and helping cotintries participate  volving large regional learninig events in Africa, Centr-al
effectively in the global trading systemn. Highlights of  Europe, and East Asia, complemiienited by individual in-
activities in these areas during fiscal 2002 included  country workshops) and for staff (including the first
condticting (jointly with the Interniationial Monetary  of a series of new courses on1 building and supportinig
Ftind [IMF]) a comprehenisive review of the Poverty  PRSPs, drawing on1 findinigs from the PRSP Review);
RedLCtioll Strategy Paper (PPRSP) approach, launchiing  completioni and publication of a two-volumne PRSP
a strategy to integrate gender into the mainistream of  Sottrcebook that provided practitioners with materials
Bank lendinig and nonleniding work, and designing a  covering macro, sectoral, and cross-cutting issues,
framework for empowerment strategies. Meanwhile,   along witlh core techniqties for PRSP preparation; and
responding to the challenge of the World Trade Orga-  thematic work with relevance for middle-inlcome as
nization (WTO) miniisterial meeting in Doha, Qatar,  well as PRSP couLntries, such as preparing a "User's
the Bank stepped up its efforts to help developing  Guide to Poverty and Social Impact Analysis," develop-
countries benefit from the world trade system.     ing indicators and monitorinig progress in poverty re-
duction, workinig on pro-poor growth, and preparing
POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPERS                 gtiidance to staff on incorporatinig poverty reduction
AND RELATED ACTIVITIES                             inito their work.
The momenitunm of the PRSP approach continued dur-  GENDER
ing the year. An additional nine countries completed
interim PIRSPs, and seven countries completed theii  Also during the year the Bank launclhed a newv gender
first full PRSPs. A major initiative undertakeni during  mainistreaminlg strategy, "Integratinig Gender inlto the
the year was a comprehenisive review of the first two  World Bank's Work-A Strategy for Action," designed
years' experience with the approach (see box 4. 1).  to help foster couLntry-led, cotintry-specific efforts to
60      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



BOX 4.1 REVIEW OF THE POVERTY REDUCTION          a community empowerment project in Fast Timor,
STRATEGY PAPER APPROACH                          and a water and sanitation project in Ghana. The
Bank's Development Marketplace has promoted
The review covered tne Tirst two years' experience  several innovative gender projects, such as support-
with the PRSP approach. It was based on a broad  ing an artisan enterprise institute in Peru, reducinig
consultative process involving PRSP countries and  female genital cutting in Africa, aiid helping poor
multilateral, bilateral, 3nd nongovernmental part-  women and girls in Egypt obtain identity cards and
ners, and it culminated in an international confer-  birth certificates to enable them to access microcredit
ence in January 2002. The review evaluated ex-   and basic services.
perience with a wide range of features of the       The Bank is also active in promoting gender equal-
approach; while recommending no major changes,   ity through nonlending activities, including wor-k on
it included sets of gooa-practice suggestions for  gender and human imimluniodeficienicy virus/acquired
countries and develop,ment partners, including the  immune deficiency syndrome and on emerging issues
Bank and Fund. Its broad findings on the impact  such as gender and the digital divide. A new initiative
of the approach to date included the following: the  on gender and macroeconomic policy will identify
concept of country ownership had been and        effective actions for integrating gender into country-
remained crucial to su,cess; the approach had    level analysis and policy dialogue.
gained strong and widespread acceptance among
low-income countries, had promoted enhanced      EMPOWERMENT
national dialogue, ana was helping to put poverty
at the center of countries' development efforts;  Empowernment is a key focus of the Bank's poverty
PRSPs were also helping to promote better-       reduction efforts. Empotvermien-t antd Poverty Reduction:
informed decisionmaking and more effective use   A Souircebook was produced in fiscal 2002 to improve
of public resources; and development partners    the Bank's understanding of empowerment anid its im-
also widely endorsed the approach and were mov-  plications for ongoing work. The report cites evidence
ing toward better aligning their assistance with  linking empowernment to improved project perform-
country-owned PRSPs                              ance and governance and to growth that is more pro-
The review also noted challenges and areas for  poor. It is based on extensive consultationis within the
improvement as the PKSP approach evolves. These  Bank and with governmenit officials, other donor
include the importance of arriving at realistic  representatives, and civil society.
growth projections, effectively prioritizing and    Since institutional environnments vary with
sequencing key strategic initiatives, institution-  I location and context, there can be no single model
alizing participatory processes with respect to  for empowerment. 'I'he Souirccbook offers a frame-
strategy implementation and monitoring as well   work for the design of empowermenit strategies, rec-
as strategy preparation, ensuring an appropriate  ommending that they focus on four key elemncits:
role for national parliaments in the PRSP process,  information, inclusion and participation, account-
and ensuring clear and close linkages between    ability, and local organizational capacity. These
PRSPs and countries' public expenditure programs  elements can be linked to five priority areas of the
and medium-term expenditure frameworks.          Bank's work: access to basic services, improving
national governance, improving local governance,
pro-poor market development, and access to justice
change gender patternis that adversely affect growth,  and legal aid. The Peru Programmatic Social Reform
poverty reduction, and human well-being. The strategy  Loan, for example, includes many features that enable
also calls on the Bank to ensure that gender assess-  citizens to hold government accountable, including
ments arc conducted in all borrowing countries, based  mesas de concertaci6n-roundtables for dialogue and
on inclusive consultations and analysis, in order to  collaboration that include participants froni local
identify and help countries to address critical issues  commnuniities, civil society, local and national
and priorities.                                  governmiien1t, and the donor commii unLity-that are
Bank-supported gender operations in fiscal 2002  charged with monitoring all public funds allocated to
include a women1 and justice project in Argentina,  poverty reduction.
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  61



GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM              .   BOX 4.2 INTEGRATING TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT
The Bank has increasingly moved governance and pub-  The Bank has continued to play a leading role in
lic sector institutional reform to center stage in its as-  conducting diagnostic trade integration studies
sistance to client countries, recognizing that good gov-  through the Integrated Framework for Trade-
ernance and strong public institutions lie at the core of  Related Technical Assistance to Least Developed
achieving development and poverty reduction. Fiscal  Countries (IF), a partnership with other multilateral
2002 has been a year of further deepening these efforts  institutions and bilateral donors. Studies have been
and of taking stock of what has been learned thus far.  completed for three pilot countries-Cambodia,
Many ongoing initiatives moved to a second phase  I  Madagascar, and Mauritania-and are being pre-
this year. First, the Public Expenditure and Financial  pared for. another four-Lesotho, Malawi, Senegal,
Accountability (PEFA) Program-developed to coordi-  and the Republic of Yemen. Work is being expand-
nate and integrate PEFA efforts both within the Bank  ed to select low-income countries not classified
and across donors-was formalized. Second, a report,  as least developed. The studies identify key con-
"Actions to Strengthen the Tracking of Poverty-     straints to a country's integration into the multilat-
Reducing Public Spending in Heavily Indebted Poor   eral trading system and the global economy, and
Countries (HlPCs)," a follow-up to last year's HIPC  the implications for policy reform and technical
expenditure tracking study, was prepared by Bank    assistance needs. The Bank and IF partners are
and IMF staff. Finally, a joint proposal from the Bank,  actively pursuing mobilization of trade-related
IMF, and Organisation for Economic Co-operation     assistance to poor countries as a follow-up to the
and Development for the establishmenit of an Initerima-  Doha declaration.
tional Tax Dialogue was approved.                  -------  - --             ------------*- - -
TRADE
At the global level, work has focused on strengthen-
While openness to trade can be an important spur to  ing the developmenit aspects of the global trade agenda.
growth, trade liberalization alone is insufficienit for  For examliple, Global Ecoiionoic Prospects 2002, released
generating widely shared incomile gains. The Bank's  in November 2001, and the Policy Research Report
trade-related activities seek to improve understanding  Globalizatiotn, Growvthl anld Poverty: Butildinlg anl Inclusive
of the conditions that lead from openiness to growth  WVorld Economy have helped shape the global trade
and poverty reduction, and to help integrate develop-  debate and the agenda set at the WVTO ministerial
ment considerations into international collective ac-  meeting in Doha, Qatar. Trade work is based on a
tions on trade-and trade into development strategies  strengthenied program of technical research, focused on
(see box 4.2).                                   a better understanidinig of how institutionial and regula-
At the country level the Bank seeks to help devel-  tory reforms affect trade and investment liberalization;
oping countries respond to new market opportLiuities.  provision of an analytical framework to help develop-
The challenge is to integrate trade reforms into na-  ing countries set priorities for reform and multilateral
tional development strategies that support growth  trade negotiations; analysis of howv trade policy reforms
and poverty reduction. The Bank also provides direct  and domestic institutiolIs can together help to reduce
advice and capacity building, includinig for WTO  poverty; and work to make the global trading system
accession negotiation. In June 2002 the Bank published  more transparent and more attuned to the needs of
Development, Trade, and the IAVTO: A Hanidbook,  developing couLntries.
62      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Investing in People
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) commit
the international community to a vision of develop-
ment that vigorously promotes human development as                        r !
the key to sustaining social and economic progress in
all countries. People living in poverty lack access to 
basic health care, education, and social safety nets. Each  /
year more than 13 million people lose their lives to
human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune
deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) and other communi-
cable diseases such as tuberculosis (TB), leprosy, malar-
ia, and acute respiratory infections. Other people have                         S
little income or savings, and many are vulnerable to
crisis. The World Bank stands by its commitment to
scale up efforts to help countries achieve universal
primary education, combat communicable diseases,
reduce child mortality, improve maternal health, and  Education: creating opportunities for life-long learning.
protect the vulnerable from crisis.
The World Bank remains the largest source of exter-
nal financing for human development programs. New  can help situate education within a country's overall
lending commitments for education; health, nutrition,  developmental activity; and increased resources re-
and population (HNP); and social protection amount-  leased through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ed to $4.26 billion in fiscal 2002. In addition to its lend-  (HIPC) Initiative. A primary thrust of the Bank's edu-
ing activities, the Bank's human development agenda  cation work was to help countries achieve key EFA
included analytical work, active involvement in country  targets-set in 1990 and reaffirmed in 2000 as MDGs-
poverty reduction strategies, and extensive outreach  adopt primary education completion rates as the yard-
and collaboration with partners to build strong al-  stick of development success rather than the traditional
liances to help developing countries achieve their Edu-  means of measuring gross enrollments. This important
cation for All (EFA) goal of getting every girl and boy  shift is necessary to deliver the full development bene-
into primary school by 2015 and having them com-  fits of EFA. A second strategic thrust aims to help
plete a primary education. Another such alliance has  countries build the human capital needed to develop
been to intensify the fight against communicable dis-  competitive knowledge economies. Long-standing is-
eases. Collaborative efforts were undertaken with gov-  sues of access, equity, and quality need urgent atten-
ernments, U.N. agencies, and other partners to create  tion: 113 million children are out of school, two-thirds
the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, TB, and Malaria,  of them girls, and a billion adults are illiterate. Equally
in recognition of the devastating impact of these dis-  important are the 21 st century challenges posed by
eases on education and health systems, and wider  HIV/AIDS, armed conflicts, knowledge gaps, and the
prospects for reducing poverty in many countries.  digital divide (see box 4.3).
In fiscal 2002 the Bank proposed, in consultation
THE EDUCATION AGENDA: FOCUSING ON                with partners, an Action Plan to accelerate progress
UNIVERSAL PRIMARY EDUCATION                      on EFA. The Plan was adopted by the Bank's Develop-
ment Committee in April 2002. It outlines measures to
The Bank vigorously strengthened its support for  close the data, policy, capacity, and financing gaps for
education in fiscal 2002, building on a convergence of  88 countries not on track to achieve, by 2015, universal
favorable developments, including increased global  primary education. The Bank has subsequently invited
commitment to the MDGs; growing adoption of      18 countries to join an EFA Fast Track and is working
Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs), which  with another 5 to qualify them for the program. This is
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  63



BOX 4.3 HELPING EDUCATION SYSTEMS COPE
WITH HIV/AIDS
Among the earliest to urge action against
HIV/AIDS, the Bank is actively helping countries       I
deal with the epidemic's impact on education.                                                      c -
The central message of Education and HIV/AIDS    4V 
A Window of Hope, published by the Bank in fiscal  .
2002, is that educating children and youth merits             i      X
the highest priority in an HIV/AIDS-afflicted world.                           -
Education is both a proven means of HIV preven-                                    -
tion and a sector whose very existence is threat-
ened by the epidemic. AIDS is eroding the supply
and quality of education, weakening demand and                                                        7-
access, drying up human capital, and increasing
sector costs.
The paper calls for urgent and innovative action  Health, Nutrition, and Population. protecting people from communicable
diseases, ill health, and malnutrition
to protect schoolchildren ages 5 to 14-the group
least infected, and young people who are sexually
active-often the highest risk group, accounting
for some 60 percent of all new HIV infections. It    l3ank lending for education in fiscal 2002 wvas
urges countries to:                               $1.4 billion. Africa accounted for most of the projects,
which supported primary education, distance learninig,
*   Establish education as an urgent national     and higher education. A key focus was on the quality of
priority                                      education, as in Bangladesh's Second Female Secondary
*   Engage in systematic sector pianning          School Assistance Project, wvhich builds on impressive
*   Ensure close collaboration with other sectors  gains in access. Support to the Latin America and the
*   Develop policies that make schools safe for   Caribbean region ($560.4 million) will also help raise
children                                      quality and expand basic education coverage to the
*   Strengthen delivery of prevention education   poorest areas in Mexico, and provide "lifelong" learn-
*   Address the needs of girls and orphan children.  ing for Linenilployed youth and poor people in Chile.
EXPANDING EFFORTS TOWARD A HEALTHY
GLOBAL POPULATION
an initiative designed to help developing countries  Health, Nutrition, and Population
meet the 2015 education goal. Many more countries  In fiscal 2002 Bank lending to help countries improve
are expected to benefit from this initiative in the months  HNP outcomes totaled $1.4 billion. The Bank con-
and years to come. A first-ever database on primary  ducted a review this year of its progress in achieving
colimpletion rates helped project an EFA external  the objectives outlined in the 1997 HNP Sector Strat-
financing gap of about $2.5 billion to $5 billion.  egy. While notinig some iilportant accomplishments-
Achieving EFA wvill require sound macroeconiomic and  for example, a sharper focus on health and poverty,
education sector policies that emphasize efficiency and  and modest beginninigs in financial protection against
quality, such as reasonable teachers' salaries and school  impoverishment from ill health-many challeinges
constructioni costs, as well as adequate domestic-and  remain. Helping countries achieve the MDGs has no1w
external-resources. It will also require addressing bot-  taken center stage, as has addressing inequities in access
tlenecks that may reside outside the formal educationi  to and the quality of health services, and the growing
sector. In fiscal 2002 the Bank helped countries mobi-  burden on poor people of noncolIlmunicable diseases.
lize domestic resources for education through active  For example, an adaptable program loan for nutrition
support for the PRSP process.                     in Senegal was approved this year to help mothers
64      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



prevent, rather than treat, children's malnutrition. In  of AIDS vaccines in developing countries, and the
reproductive health, the prevention of sexually trans-  Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizationi, a key
mitted infections continued to figure prominently.  pLiblic-private partnership that works toward improved
Finally, emphasis on strengthening health systems as  access to existing childhood vaccines and the develop-
a cornerstone for improved HNP outcomes continued  ment of new ones (see box 4.4).                          -
to grow.
Communicable Diseases                            PROTECTING THE MOST VULNERABLE
Significant support was directed last year toward com-  Natural or man-made crises can devastate poor fami-  E
bating HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria, and other communi-  lies, robbing them of security, income, and productiv-
cable diseases, amounting to $320 million. A second  ity. Social protection, such as risk reductioni and miti-
Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa   gation, and coping measures are essential to protecting
was approved in fiscal 2002, earmarking another  the vulnerable. Such measures seek to help individuals,  p
$500 million in IDA resources for projects that support  households, and communities better manage risks, and
the scaling up of national HIV/AIDS prevention and  to provide support to the critically poor. In fiscal 2002   m
care programs. In fiscal 2002 the Bank appointed its  these measures helped countries build viable old-ageo
first Global HIV/AIDS Advisor, who will be responsible
for intensifying the Bank's operational work in the field
and for representing the Bank in the global movement
of governments, communities, private companies,
development agencies, and civil society groups deter-             -. _
mined to reverse the course of the epidemic.
More than 30 countries are benefiting from Bank
financing for the adoption and expansion of the TB
control strategy known as DOTS-directly observed
treatment, short course. More specifically, the second                :
TB Control Project in China builds on a previous oper-
ation that demonstrated the successful application of                         #K
DOTS on a massive scale. This project is also innova-
tive: it involves cofinancing from the United Kingdom's
Department for International Development to reduce
the interest burden on the Chinese government. In
addition, support for rolling back malaria through
Bank operations includes some 45 active projects, and
the Bank is helping to ensure malaria is a priority in its
work through sectorwide approaches (SWAPs), PRSPs,
the Comprehensive Development Framework, and HIPC.n                                                 ,
The Bank plays a key role in well-established com-
municable disease partnerships-such as the Joint                                        /
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS),                                    ,    ,
Roll Back Malaria, and Stop TB-that have been essen-
tial in keeping the world focused on these challenges.
Other communicable disease partnerships remain a
priority for the Bank, including collaboration with the
World Health Organization (WHO), U.N. agencies
such as UNAIDS, bilateral donors, and the private sec-                                           - 
tor, including foundations. Through the Development
Grant Facility the Bank is steadfast in its support to the
International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), which                             -     "'
has been instrumental in the development and testing  Social Protection: reducing vulnerabiliry for the young and old.
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  65



-  - - -!    BOX 4.4 PARTNERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS
Only with concerted effort can the world hope to  *  The Bank is a founding member and supporter,
win the fight against HIV/AIDS. While the unfinished  through the Development Grant Facility, of IAVI.
agenda is significant, there is reason for hope:     IAVI is promoting the development of HIV/AIDS
vaccines for developing countries.
F     :            *   More governments than ever before have con-  *   The Bank has worked with UNAIDS and the Inter-
OF                    fronted HiV/AIDS publicly over the past year, dis-  national Partnership against AIDS in Africa to sup-
playing leadership, committing unprecedented     port 16 African countries under the $1 billion MAR
resources, and taking action.                    Another 15 countries are preparing programs for
V                 *   Global support has grown with the creation of    funding. Similar support to Caribbean nations is
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria;  benefiting from collaboration with UNAIDS, the
new resource commitments by bilateral, multilat-  Pan American Health Organization, the WHO, and
eral, private, and philanthropic organizations; and  other regional partners. The Bank has also worked
the U.N. General Assembly and Security Council   closely with the IMF and UNAIDS to help countries
resolutions on HIV/AIDS.                         integrate HIV/AIDS support into HIPC and PRSP
*   The landmark U.N. General Assembly Special Ses-  programs.
sion on HIV/AIDS in June 2001 renewed the global  *  The International AIDS Economic Network-a part-
commitment to cooperation amid a heightened      nership of the Bank, UNAIDS, the U.S. Agency for
awareness that funding from all sources needs to  International Development, and the European
increase substantially for the spread of HIV/AIDS  Union-provides data, tools, and analysis to thou-
to be halted by 2015.                            sands of researchers and practitioners worldwide
*   Following negotiations with UNAIDS cosponsors-   for compassionate, cost-effective responses to the
including the Bank-under the Accelerating Access  epidemic.
Initiative, several manufacturers of HIV/AIDS drugs
have reduced their prices by 90 percent.
protection mechanisms, develop equitable and incilu-  undertaking social risk assessments in eight Latin
sive labor markets, eliminate child labor, and provide  American countries to determine the risks to which the
social safety nets and social funds to reach vulnerable  poor are exposed, the instruments they have available,
groups. Lending for other social services and pensionis  and the actions needed to reduce their vulnerability.
was $1.44 billion. Lending has increased in Africa,  Three specific vulnerable groups have been targeted:
Latin America and the Caribbean, and Europe and  working children, orphans and other vulnerable chil-
Central Asia but has fallen in South Asia, the Middle  dren, and the disabled. Work to help these vulnerable
East and North Africa, and East Asia and Pacific. Iden-  groups is already progressing in all three areas in other
tifying how to provide more effective risk protection to  regions, with pilot studies on child labor in Guatemala,
households outside the formal economy is an impor-  Morocco, and the Republic of Yemen; a workshop on
tant part of our efforts.                        orphans, particularly those from Africa; and the estab-
The Bank implemenited the social protection strat-  lishment of the Norwegian Trust Fund for Disability
egy that was adopted in September 2000. This included  and Development.
66      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Promoting Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development
During fiscal 2002 poverty reduction became, more
than ever, associated with the prospects of peace and -
stability in the world. Development in a sustainable                          .
manner-through sustained growth, good governance,
social inclusion, environmental responsibility, and cre-                                -    -
ation of opportunities for the poor-represents the                       -M 00k
most effective path to ensuring long-term security.
On the sustainable development path, the Bank i
has focused over the past year on developing client-                                      -MIT
responsive sector strategies in environment, rural
development, forests, water resources, and social de-
velopment, while implementing the environment        -_
strategy and scaling up conflict prevention and                                           v
postconflict reconstruction (www.worldbank.org/    s-               '       >
sustainabledevelopment).                        -;                              '
The Bank geared up for the World Summit on
Sustainable Development (WSSD) held in Johannes-
burg, South Africa, August 26 to September 4, 2002.  Development is a long-term process that ultimately involves the transfor-
Its flagship contribution to the Summit was the World  mation of whole societies Sustainable development means not only
Developttient Report 2003. The Millennium Develop-  caring for today's world, but also trying to leave the planet a better place
for our children and their children
ment Goals (MDGs) provide a framework for collabo-
ration on sustainable development and underpin the
Bank's agenda at the WSSD (see box 4.5).         quality of growth, and the quality of the global
commons. It builds on the linkages between poverty
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY                     and environmient, stressing the areas of health, liveli-
hoods, and vulnierability. The strategy is now being im-
In fiscal 2002 the Bank launched a new environment  plemented, and it includes tools to help integrate envi-
strategy aimed at improving the quality of life, the  ronment into development decisions such as country
environmiental analyses, poverty-environmllenit analyses,
and strategic environmental assessment. An enviroll-
BOX 4.5 WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE              mental mainstreaming fund supports regional activi-
DEVELOPMENT                                      ties applying this comprehensive approach (see
www.worldbank.org/environmentstrategy).
The World Bank, as the largest lender for sustain-  The Environment Network focuses particularly on
able development, is',fully committed to the goals  the MDG of ensuring environmenital sustainability.
of the WSSD, held in Johannesburg, South Africa,  The Bank is exploring how countries can generate the
August 26 to September 4, 2002. During fiscal 2002  resources they need through partnerships with the pri-
the World Bank supported the preparatory process  vate sector, government, donors, and local communi-
of the Summit. Based on the common platform of   ties. Work is also under way in critical countries on
achieving the MDGs, the WSSD was a unique        indicators such as water supply, sanitationi, forest man-
opportunity to moveithe sustainable development  agement, and infant mortality rates.
agenda closer to implementation, adding coher-      As an implementing agency for the Global Environ-
ence to the gains corming out of the Financing for  ment Facility and the Multilateral Fund of the Montre-
Development conference in Monterrey, Mexico,     al Protocol, the Bank has helped countries meet their
and the Doha, Qatari conference on Trade and     obligations under the global conventions on biodi-
Development.                                     versity, land degradation, ozone depletion, persistent
organic pollutants, and climate change. The Bank
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  67



supports developing market mechanisms to reduce  private foundations, and regional organizations. A far-
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; the Prototype Car-  reaching reformii program launched by the CGIAR in
bon Fund is demonstrating how market-based carbon  fiscal 2002 is increasing the relevance and inipact of
emissions transactions can be implemented. The Bank  its research through innovative programs and new
is also helping countries identify potential carbon  mechanisms to ensure that the quality of science meets
nmarkets and other financing opportunities for GHG  the highest internationial standards. Research at the
offsets.                                         CGIAR-supported Centers-Future Harvest Centers-
is helping launch a rice revolution in West Africa
K.                FOCUS ON AGRICULTURAL GROWTH                     through the release of new rices for Africa, and a corn
IL                FOCUS ON AGRICULTURAL GROWTH                     variety bred for high-quality protein is being planted
The Bank's future direction for rural development and  on I million hectares in 20 countries. Per Pinstrup-
poverty reduction was developed during fiscal 2002.  Andersen, Director General of the International Food
Agricultural growth was identified as a fundamental  Policy Research Institute, a Future Harvest Center, won
pathway out of poverty. The multidimensional nature  the 2001 World Food Prize for efforts to improve food
of activities and work across all rural sectors is rec-  policies, a first for an agricultural economist. In a signal
ognized as a key factor to achieving poverty reduction.  of growing confidence in the system, the IFAD agreed
The focus is on a more holistic, pro-poor, rural devel-  to become a cosponsor of CGIAR.
opment approach, enhancing returns to labor and
land, and more effective agricultural investments. The  SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE
new emnphasis addresses the entire rural space, includ-  DEVELOPMENT
ing social, economic, and environmienital aspects of ru-
ral development. It encourages broad-based stakehold-  A range of participatory approaches to public expendi-
er participation in project design and implementation,  ture management has been developed to ensure greater
moving away from working only with the central gov-  accountability to citizens for public actions and out-
ernment. A draft strategy that includes these issues will  comes, including participatory budgeting, budget re-
be presented for Board discussion in fiscal 2003.  view and analysis, expenditure tracking, and perform-
As a result of the crisis in the commodities market  ance monitoring through the use of citizen report
in fiscal 2002 that affected many developing countries,  cards. With the advent of PRSPs, country clients and
the Bank was called upon by client countries to con-  Bank staff seek to better understand the distributional
tinue development of new approaches and tools to deal  impacts of policy reforms on the well-being of differ-
with commodity risk management. The International  ent stakeholders. In response, a "Guidance Manual" to
Task Force on Commodity Risk Management, with    help undertake poverty and social impact analysis
its secretariat housed at the Bank, is exploring the  of policy reforms was prepared during fiscal 2002 (see
potential of market-based commodity price risk   http://www.worldbank.org/poverty/).
management-a type of price insurance that will      Community-driven development, an approach that
serve to mitigate exposure of developing-country pro-  gives control of decisions and resources to community
ducers to price shocks and the negative effects of price  groups, is now an important priority in the Bank's
volatility. In addition, the Bank is helping clients to  business.
increase competitiveness and build capacity to success-  Bank staff began work on a social development
fully engage in the WTO, and is advocating the reduc-  strategy in fiscal 2002 aimed at reviewing and defining
tion of Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  the Bank's social development agenda, and at develop-
Development agricultural subsidies.              ing a program of action to help projects and programs
The Bank also supports the Consultative Group  better achieve poverty reduction.
on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)      The events of September 11 put an increased focus
(www.cgiar.org), a broad-based partnership com-  on the Bank's work in conflict prevention and recon-
prising the Food and Agriculture Organization of the  struction, while demands for assistance for conflict-
United Nations, the International Fund for Agricul-  affected countries in the Bank's Europe and Central
tural Development (IFAD), the U.N. Development   Asia region and Africa region have continued to be
Programme, 22 developing and 21 industrial countries,  strong. In fiscal 2002 the Post-Conflict Fund approved
68      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



over $13 million, including funds to Afghanistan to  People's Policy, and the Physical Cultural Resources
support the reconstruction strategy, and to the Afghan  Policy have been revised after extensive public consul-
Interim Administration.                           tations and are expected to be presented to the Board
of Directors in fiscal 2003 (see www.worldbank.org/
SAFEGUARD POLICIES                                safeguards).
Safeguard policies, incorporating environmental prin-  SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
ciples, are designed to protect the interests of third par-
ties from adverse impacts of Bank-assisted projects.  A Strategic Directions Paper "Science and Tech-
They have become a cornerstone of the Bank's poverty  nology in Development" was produced; it reviews
reduction efforts. In fiscal 2002 the Bank continued to  the main policy options for improving science and
improve its safeguard systems with a number of new  technology systems in developing countries, partic-
initiatives. In December 2001 the Involuntary Resettle-  ularly through greater coordination of existing
ment Policy was revised and includes safeguards to  programs.
address and mitigate the impoverishment risks. Its an-  The Bank was also active in internationial scientific
nex describes the elements of a resettlement plan and  assessments, such as the Intergovernmental Panel on
a resettlement process framework. In addition to the  Climate Change and the Millennium Ecosystems
Resettlement Policy, the Forest Policy, the Indigenous  Assessments.
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  69



Supporting Private Sector Development
and Infrastructure
Private initiative plays an important part in the quest  !
for poverty reduction. While private capital flows to   __
emerging markets remain vastly larger than official
development assistance, there has been a downward                                      e
trend in net long-term private flows to developing       i
countries. This has been due in part to crises in emerg-     T71
ing markets and to a general economic downturnii
The World Bank promotes the development of pri-
vate initiative through its Private Sector Development
and Infrastructure Network (PSI), which supports the
institutioni's commitmenit to the Millennium Develop-
ment Goals (MDGs). The core of the network's activi-
ties is consistent with the Bank Group's corporate strat-
egy for achieving these goals. The activities rest on the  -
twin pillars of building the investment climate and em- n__
powering poor people.
New too/s developed by the Bank, such as the private sector guarantees
for IDA countries, are encouraginig private Investment
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY-
HARNESSING PRIVATE INITIATIVE
responsibility for ensuring access to affordable basic
Much of this approach is captured in the World Bank  services such as health and education.
Group's private sector developmenit strategy, designed
to better harness private initiative for growth and  SOME KEY INSTRUMENTS
poverty reduction. In February 2002 Executive Direc-
tors of the B3ank Group gave their support to the strat-  Consistenit with the directions of the private sector de-
egy, following a year of dialogue and consultation dur-  velopment strategy, the Bank has been developing an
ing which comments and feedback were elicited from a  array of new instruments and programs to support its
broad range of constituenicies. Poverty is reduced when  objectives. Investmenit climate assessments are being
investment climates are improved and the reach of  carried out with the aimi of hav'ing a catalytic impact
markets can be extended to provide greater job and  on private flows and spurring greater private sector ini-
income opportunities for poor people.             tiative to benefit the poorest. An assessmenit has already
The strategy acknowledges the centrality of infra-  been completed for India and 15 more are currently
structure to poverty reduction, and encourages con-  under way.
tinued private sector participation while fostering  Other important instruments being pursued in-
stronger regulatory regimes. Nearly 3,000 regulators  clude output-based aid (OBA) pilots. OBA contracts
from 115 countries have attended formal regulatory  shift the responsibility for service delivery to private
training programs supported by PSI, the World Bank  operators by linking the disbursemenit of aid to actual
Institute, and external partners. These efforts are con-  provision of the service. The Bank has contributed to
tributing to more effective regulation of infrastructure  the design of OBA pilots in most regions and sectors,
in client countries, with positive impacts on the flow of  including a water project in Cambodia, an electricity
private investment to improve essential infrastructure  project in Mozambique, road projects in India, tele-
services. The regulatory approaches beilg supported  communications projects in Nepal, and rural multi-
make an important contribution to the broader pover-  sector projects in Bangladesh and Mauritania.
ty and governance agenda. This also points to the criti-  Internally, organizational inniovationis such as the
cal role of the public sector in fostering an enabling  establishment of a number of joint World Bank-lFC
climate for private sector development, and to its  departments or Global Product Groups are helping to
70      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



leverage the impact of World Bank Group operations                         VS 'T         ,  j  At'
in sectors with heavy private sector involvement. These               ; R                              - -
joint departments cover oil, gas, and mining; infor-
mation and communications technology; small and
medium enterprises; and private sector advisory                                i.          , 
services. An evaluationi of the joint model will soon
b)e carried out.
EMBEDDING NEW APPROACHES 
AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL 
Considerable attention is being given to embedding
these new approaches in the Bank's country work
through country assistance strategies (CASs) and
Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). Private                      i
sector development and infrastructure issues have  I'-       -          -
been well positioned in cross-sector activities across -|1
the Bank. PSI staff are integrated into multisector                                                      m
teams.
In Uganda, for example, a PRSC covers roads and  Young boy fetching water at a small town water Installation in Hetosa,
water and sanitation along with health, education, and  Ethiopia,
public governance, underscoring a new broad-based or
multisector project approach. What this and many
other initiatives like it show is the direct link between  The Energy Sector Management Assistance Pro-
infrastructure initiatives and poverty reduction as  gramme, a global technical program supported by the
called for in the MDGs.                           Bank, the U.N. Development Programme, and others,
A Business Primer Fund has also been set up to  is helping to build consensus and provide policy advice
spur work on cross-sector issues. PSI has established  on sustainable energy development to governments.
partnerships with different country teams to enhance  The Water and Sanitation Program, an internation-
its support for the preparation of Poverty Reduction  al partnership to help poor people in developing coun-
Strategy Papers. Such efforts are currently under way  tries gain access to safe drinking water and sanitation
with poverty reduction strategies for the Democratic  services, is focusing its efforts on policy reforms and
Republic of Congo, C6te d'lvoire, Ethiopia, and Nige-  institutional change in the water supply and sanitation
ria. The network is also coordinating upstream inter-  sector. From a health perspective, its Global Initiative
ventions in key CASs in China, Colombia, Mexico,  for Public-Private Partnerships in Hand Washing is
Pakistan, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, and  catering to the huge unmet need for hand washing
Thailand.                                         with soap in poor communities in developing
countries.
Transportation remains central to many potential
INFRASTRUCNURE                                    gains: with roads, people have access to markets,
schools, health facilities, and a host of other services.
The MDGs do not specifically mention key areas    In March 2002 the Bank approved $315 million to
of infrastructure sucl as electricity, transportation,  support physical and management improvements of
and telecommunications, but infrastructure remains  transportation networks in India. The Mizoram State
central to achieving the goals. The provision of infra-  Roads Project and the Kerala State Transport Project
structure is also central to building the climate for  will expand and rehabilitate transportation systems
investment and to investing in poor people and    and help strengthen the capacity of the respective state
empowering them to participate in development.    road agencies to manage and deliver quality road serv-
The Bank is intensifying efforts in a wide range of  ices. The government of India strongly supports the
infrastructure initiatives.                       provision of basic infrastructure as a priority to help
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  71



boost the long-term economiiic growth needed to re-       In fiscal 2002 the Bank adopted an information
duce poverty and create opportunities and access for   and communications technology strategy, which guides
communities. And in Brazil a $209 million World Bank   the formation of its telecommunications policy. In
loan for the financing of the Sao Paulo Metro 4 Line   December 2001 the Bank approved a $22.6 million
Project, approved in January 2002, is supporting       credit to the government of Nepal to help finance the
Sao Paulo's urban poor.                                Telecommunications Sector Reform Project. The proj-
ect specifically targets low-income, rural, and other
Figure 4.1 Lending for Infrastructure by Theme,       disadvantaged people, and will provide them with
Fiscal 2002                                telecommunications and information services, often
Share of total new commitments of           for the first time. This project strongly underscores the
$5.7 billion                                use of OBA outlined above.
Trade &                                     \Vorld Bank guarantees are also playing a signifi-
Integration 1%                              cant role in catalyzing private capital flows to several
Human          Rule of Law 1%                  large infrastructure projects in developing countries.
Developm2n        Sector Development 27%            Supported by a partial risk guarantee, the Haripur
Power Project in Bangladesh was commissioned in
Management                                           December 2001, adding 360 megawatts to the country's
SociaA                                           generating capacity. The total cost of the project was
Protection &                                          $176.5 million. By mitigating government performance
Risk                                           risk, the partial risk guaranitee allowed Bangladesh to
Management                                             catalyze more than $115.6 millioni of private financing
Public Sector                          rban        in this transaction, with a 14-year tenure.
Governance 9%         ,   \             Development      Finally, the Bank continues to place much atten-
Einn  & v  <  ' "\  / 23%   tion on the effectiveness of development assistance.
Environmental &
Natural Resource      -        Rural              Its activities to provide people with access to financial
Management 9%                   Development
Social Development 11%
& Gender 10%
Figure 4.2 Lending for Infrastructure by Sector,       Figure 4.3 Net Long-Term Resource Flows to
Fiscal 2002                                            Developing Countries, 1992-2001
Share of total new commitments of                      (billions of dollars)
$5.7 billion
200
Education 1%-     Agriculture 1%
Industry & Trade 7%       Finance 1%                150                             Foreign direct investment
Health & Other               Information &          100                                     Capital markets
Social Services 3%              Communication 1%       100
50
Sanitation  X _      tTransportation                                                cal ows
Protection 8 _ %X                       4                  1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000a 2001h
Protecti on 8°/ .  <                    ~~-50
Law & Justice &                                        a. Preliminary. Net long-term resource flows are defined as net
Public                                          liability transactions or original maturity of greater than one year.
Administration                                         b. Estimate.
Source: World Bank. 2002. Giobal Development Finance 2002. Washington, D.C.
Energy & Mining 27%
Note: Numbers do not add to 100 percent because of rounding.
72       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



services are a case in point. The Consultative Group  donor-led peer reviews of the institutional policies,
to Assist the Poorest (CGAP), a consortium of 29 bilat-  practices, and processes of 17 multilateral and bilateral
eral and multilateral donor agencies supporting micro-  donor agencies to improve microfinance operations
finance in developing countries, is currently facilitating  and donor communications. The strategic reviews are
an initiative on aid effectiveness using microfinance as  expected to yield lessons on improving the effective-
a test case. Over the next year CGAP will coordinate  ness of all areas of development assistance.
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives    73



Building Strong Financial Systems
A robust finanicial system is a preconditioni for a sound          ,            -
investment climate, growth, and the reduction of                                                            Fi
poverty. The loss of over $1 trillioni in developing--
countries as a result of banking crises in the 1980s and                                          (
1990s is equal to the total flow of official development
assistance from 1950 to today. This underscores the
priority of helping countries build stable financial
systems fortified by compliance with international
standards and diverse financial institutions and               ._
iinstrumen ts.
As the global economic downturn was accelerated                                 l*
by the events of September I I and their aftermath,    x                                                -
capital flows to emerging markets fell sharply and only                                   -             -
recovered following U.S.-led growth in early 2002. Slow x
growth worldwide and the financial crisis in Argentina                 - 
have provided the impetus for many countries to take                                                    --
new steps toward improvinig their investmenit cliimiates,    /         _________________;                       _
restructuring the enterprise and bankiing sectors, and
strengthening finanicial supervisory agencies.       People lining up at Banco Postal, a joint venture between the Post Office
and the largest private bank (Bradesco) in Brazil. The new entity has
offered banking (and payment) services through postal branches in
BANK PRIORITIES                                     remote and poor areas of the country since March 2002.
Where financial crisis has occurred in client countries,  fiscal 2002, bringing the total to 55 assessments since
the Bank has taken action: in response to lurkey's twin  the program's inception in May 1999. An additional
bankinig and currency crises, the Bank has continued to  24 countries are expected to participate in the program
assist the governmllent in restructuring its banking sys-  in fiscal 2003. These assessments provide a wealth of
tem by strengthening the bank resolution framework;  informationi, as well as recommendations for follow-
improvinig the legal framework for creditor rights,  up, to national authorities. As a result, countries in-
bankruptcy, and corporate debt workouts; and imple-  creasingly seek technical assistance for their financial
imenting a comprehensive restructurinig and privatiza-  sectors. (See www.worldbank.org/finance/html/
tion of state-owned banks.                           fsap.html.)
The most important contribution of the Bank is       The demanid for preparation aiid follow-up assis-
on the developmental side of the financial sector:   tance related to the FSAP and the Reports on the Ob-
building the foundations to ensure not only a more  servance of Standards and Codes (ROSCs) goes beyond
stable system but also one that allocates credit to its  the resources and the expertise that any single institu-
best uses, thereby maximizing growth and poverty    tion can provide. Recognizing this, the Bank, in part-
alleviation. The Bank's programs also strive to broaden  nership with the IMF, Canada, the Netherlands,
access to finanicial services, for example, by small and  Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, has launched
mediumii enterprises. Through the Financial Sector As-  the Finanicial Sector Reform and Strengthening Initia-
sessment Program (FSAP), the World Bank and Inter-  tive. This new effort, to which $51 million has been
nationial Monetary Fund (IMF) diagnose vulnerabili-  committed over four years, puts in place a systematic
ties and identify developmental priorities in financial  mechanismii for responding to countries' technical assis-
sectors and assess the observance of several interna-  tance, capacity-building, and information needs, and
tional supervisory and regulatory standards and codes.  provides a framework for the international community
Twenty-one counltry assessmenits were undertaken in  to coordinate more effectively.
74      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Since the terrorist attacks of September I 1, the   BOX 4.6 PAYMENT SYSTEM REFORM
international communiity has placed increased
importance on the fight against money laundering and  The reform of payment systems (the mechanisms
abuse of the financial system to support terrorism.   for moving funds, payments, and money among
Threats to financial system integrity pose developmen-  financial institutions in countries) throughout Latin  i     .
tal risks for client coulitries, since growth can occur  America and the Caribbean has been taking place"
only if financial systems serve the legitimate needs of  over the last two years, driven by the Bank-led'
the many rather than the corrupt needs of the few.     Western Hemisphere Payments and Securities Clear-
The Bank, working closely with the IMF, has signifi-  ance and Settlement Initiative (WHI). WHI was
cantly stepped up its efforts to help member countries  launched in 1999 by the Bank in partnership with
identify weaknesses in their legal and institutional  the Centre for Latin American Monetary Studies
capacity in this area and to address the problems     following a request from the Western Hemisphere
through technical assistance. The Bank has provided   finance ministers. Its objective is to describe and
assistance to over 20 countries in reviewing anti-     assess the payment systems of the Western Hemi-
money-laundering and counterterrorism laws and        sphere for the purpose of improving their safety,  - -
regulations, and has helped establish the institutional  efficiency, and integrity.
capacity to carry out effective programs in these areas.  The Initiative has uridertaken a number of ac-
The Bank is also leading the development of an inter-  tivities to strengthen the payments arrangements
national technical assistance coordination mechanism   in Latin America and the Caribbean, including
that will contribute to more effective identification and  the development of descriptive reports ("yellow
delivery of technical assistance, working with the IMF,  books") and a methodology for assessing payments
Financial Action Task Force, the U[nited Nations, the  systems and securities clearance and settlement sys-
Egmont Group (an informal organization of financial   tems at the same time; the delivery of recommen-
intelligence units-the cornerstone of national anti-  dations to country authorities; and the creation of
money-launderinig programs), regional development     a Web-based resource for all governments in the
banks, and other partners.                             region (see www.ipho-whpi.org). The direct result
of this work has been improved payments arrange-
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT                   ments in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and
AND EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE                            Peru, and major reform programs in The Bahamas,
Barbados, El Salvador, Jamaica, and Trinidad and
Financial systems that allocate credit to the private  Tobago.
sector efficiently can increase access of the poor to fi-  .- _     e                                    - - -   _
nancial services. CouLntries that allocate their resources
well will prosper. In Jordan the Bank helped establish a  To help countries overcome the low interimiedia-
secondary mortgage facility, resulting in impressive  tion trap-where the formal financial system services
growth and increases in the affordability of residential  only large firms, leaving SMEs with little access to
mortgages. A Bank credit to the Federal Republic of  finanicial services-the Bank is tapping the potential
Yugoslavia has helped the government begin liquida-  of informiation technology. For example, the World
tion of 60 percent of the banking system, including  Bank and the Indian post office are collaborating to in-
four of the largest banks. This restructuring will im-  vestigate ways in which information technology can be
prove the environment under which banks operate,   used to help overcome poverty in remote, rural areas of
thereby boosting financial intermediation, encouraging  India by establishing public-private partnerships that
domestic savings, and generating the necessary work-  could use the vast infrastructure of the post office as a
ing capital and investment finance needed for private  conduit for the delivery of basic financial products and
sector growth and job creation. In Colombia the Bank  services: delivering niicrofinance services at lower costs,
worked to establish an effective corporate debt restruc-  providing SMEs with access to finance and markets,
turing system, enabling the resolution of banking asset  and helping the poor manage risk through offerling
problems and laying the groundwork for an improved  pension and insurance products. This platform is also
investment climate (see box 4.6).                  expected to be extended to nonifinancial activities such
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  75



as the provision of pricing and other information, and  strengthening financial supervision and the regulatory
e-government-the use of information and communi-  framework. In Brazil, for example, the Bank is helping
cations technologies to improve efficiency, effective-  the authorities improve the legal and incentive envi-
ness, transparency, and accountability.           ronment for financial services, focusing on strengthen-
In addition to its FSAP and ROSC assessments,  ing the central bank's functions and dealing with cor-
the Bank works at the regional and country levels,  porate governance and financial contract enforcement.
76      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Promoting the Rule of Law
The rule of law is essetntial to equitable economic de-             T! '!!" .' . !!!il' I' '!!!! '
velopment and sustainable poverty reduction. Weak
legal and judicial systems undermine the fight against
poverty on many fronts: they divert investment to mar-                      081
kets with more predictable rule-based environments,
deprive important sectors of the use of productive as-
sets, and mute the voice of citizens in the decisionmak-
ing process. Vulnerable individuals, including women
and children, are unprotected from violence and other
forms of abuse that exacerbate economic inequalities.
Ineffectual enforcement of laws engenders environ-
mental degradation, corruption, money laundering,
and other problems that burden people and economies  3    I      .           - i                  \
around the world.                                             *7''                        -
The diversity of the world's cultures, traditions, and  ;              _
political systems does not allow for a single recipe for  In July 2001 the Legal Vice Presidency sponsored its second global con fer-
legal and judicial reform. The needs of each country  ence on law andjustice in St Petersburg, Russia. Judges, lawyers, and
other participants from over 75 countries discussed "Empowerment,
must be assessed individually, involving key stake-  Security, and Opportunity through Law and Justice."
holders in the public and private sectors. With com-
prehensive and appropriately tailored and sequenced
reform initiatives, the Bank can succeed in assisting its  institutions for a market economy. In countries includ-
member countries to systematically strengthen their  ing Georgia, Indonesia, Lithuania, the Philippines, Sri
rule of law.                                      Lanka, Tunisia, and Uganda, the Bank has helped to
In the past year legal and judicial sector assessments  improve financial and private sector capacity through
were completed with Bank assistance in Mongolia,  new central bank and commercial banking legislation,
Romania, Vietnam, and the Federal Republic of     capital markets initiatives, and corporate and commer-
Yugoslavia. Several more assessments are presently in  cial legislation; to facilitate the emergence and expan-
progress or planned. Bank-financed legal and judicial  sion of private sector firms and the efficient liquidation
development projects continue to increase, supporting  of irretrievably insolvent firms; and to ensure appro-
activities such as law reform, court modernization,  priate regulation of the private provision of public
training for judges and court personnel, and legal edu-  services. These activities are supported by the Bank's
cation. Commercial mediation centers and pilot courts  analytical work identifying the effect of legislation,
have been established in countries including Argentina,  regulatory arrangements, and institutional capacity
Ecuador, Mongolia, and Sri Lanka.                 on the investment climate; and by the Bank's in-depth,
New lending for stand-alone projects in legal and  country-by-country, financial sector assessments, legal
judicial reform in Colombia and Mongolia, financed  and judicial sector assessments, insolvency and creditor
by Learning and Innovation Loans, amounted to     rights systems assessments, and corporate governance
$10 million for fiscal 2002, with another $104 million  and securities market assessments.
in preparation for fiscal 2003 projects in Argentina,  Fair and efficient legal mechanisms for debt resolu-
Cambodia, El Salvador, Guinea, Peru, and the      tion play a pivotal role in fostering commercial confi-
Philippines.                                      dence and enabling markets to more accurately price,
manage, and resolve default risk, while encouraging
IMPROVING THE LEGAL CLIMATE                       enterprise rehabilitation, job preservation, and transfer
FOR INVESTMENT                                    of assets to more efficient market users. Following
the 1997-98 financial crises in emerging markets, the
Improving a country's climate for investment re-  Bank led an international coalition in developing the
quires strengtheninig the legal regime and its related  Principles and Guidelines for Effective Insolvency and
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  77



Creditors Rights Systems. These principles, finalized in  Opportullity through Law and Justice." The Europe
April 2001, are an important milestone in promoting  and Central Asia Regional Forum focused on law and
international consenisus on a uniform framework to as-  justice issues specific to transition countries. In March
sess the effectiveness of insolvency and creditor rights  2002 a regional conference in Marrakech, Morocco,
systems and to guide system reform and benchmiiarkiing  cosponsored by the Legal Vice Presidency and the
in developing countries. In 2002 under the joint Bank-  U.N. Development Programme, addressed the topic
Fund program to develop ROSCs, the Bank completed  "Strategies for Modernizinlg the Judicial Sector in the
a series of pilot country assessmenits based on these  Arab Countries." Most recently, in Washington, D.C.,
principles in Argentina, Brazil, the Czech Republic,  the Bank convened a second meeting of the Inter-
Lithuania, the Philippines, the Slovak Republic, South  national Advisory Council on Law and Justice, a
Africa, and Turkey. Assessments were also substantially  couLncil of world-renowned legal experts and jurists
completed in the Russian Federation and were initiated  that advises the Bank on legal and judicial reform
in Croatia, India, Morocco, Thailand, and Ukraine.  strategy, including empowerment of the poor. (See
www.worldbank.org/ljr/.)
ENHANCING ACCESS TO JUSTICE
FOR THE POOR                                      USING LAW FOR SUSTAINABLE
Access to justice is a key concern in the Bank's law and  DEVELOPMENT
justice efforts. Providing legal services for the poor is  As a major mobilizer of resources to protect the global
one way to help break down barriers to justice. In the  commllonis, thc Bank continiues to innovate with new
past year grants made uLnder the Bank-adminiistered  legal instrumllents and to promote improved legislative
Japan Social Development Fund finaniced legal aid and  models and legal knowledge sharing for sustainable
other services for poor woomen in Ecuador, Jordan,  development (see box 4.7).
and Sri Lanka.                                      'T'he Bank has led the way with innovative interna-
Access to justice has also received significant atten-  tional legal instruments under the Montreal and Kyoto
tion at Banik-sponisored events over the past year. The  Protocols. In 2002 the Montreal Protocol's Multilateral
second global conferenice organized by the Legal Vice  Fund began finanicinig the total phaseout of chloro-
Presidency, held in St. Petersburg, Russia, in July 2001,  fluorocarbon (CFC) production and consumption in
addressed the theme "Empowermient, Security, and  certain economiiies. The amoullt of $35.8 million was
approved for the total phaseout of CFCs in The
Bahamas, Malaysia, Thailand, and Turkey. A new
voucher-based disbursemiienit mechaniism enables the
W > i  .   ,A   .i_i |  Bank, as an implementing agency, to cost-effectively
i make grants available for the smaller activities carried
out uliider the new approach.
'I'he Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF) moved fully
into its operational phase in 2002. The PCF aims to
purchase certified emission reductions from projects
=      ,     ^~~~I0-     _    that reduce greeinhoLuse gases; conitributors to the PCF
-ij] _ T   1   hope to use the purchased emission reduction1s to off-
-1        _           ,            set the targets agreed on under the Kyoto Protocol. In
2002 innovative purchase agreemiienits were signed with
Chile and Uganda, countries eligible under the proto-
col's Clean Developmenlt Mechanism. These purchase
_    D                 ,-_             7    <  y a   agreements are being used as a model by other organi-
}zations and entities to address the requiremenits of the
Kyoto Protocol.
Legal clerks of the Galie District Court, Sri Lanka, are umplemieniting  . .  
model court administrative reforms as part of the Legal and Judicial  I[he sustainablity of fish stocks is a cause of i -
Reforms Project.                                  creasing internationial concern in the field of natural
78      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



BOX 4.7 LEGAL KNOWLEDGE SHARING ON THE WEB
The Bank contributes to Knowledge sharing on sub-  and deposit insurance laws for jurisdictions around.the
stantive law and legal, developments through a number  world.
of Web resources.                                   The Legal and Judicial Reform page on' the Bank's'
The Global Insolvency Law Database (www.      Web site (www.worldbank:org/Ijr/) features online'
worldbank.org/gild) is'a seminal forum for comparative  discussions of key legal and judicial reform therm'es,
research and dialogue, on questions of corporate insol-  information on Bank projects, a judicial indicator
vency and creditor rights systems, primarily legislative  database, a consultant database,.and guided links to,
and regulatory reforn, relevant public institutional  related sites.
capacity building, and[ related policy issues.      The Global Development Gateway (www.
The Global Banking Law Database (GBLD)        developmentgateway.org), an interactive Web portal
(www.gbld.org), a joirhlt Bank-Fund project, is search-  designed to serve as a virtual forum for krlowledge
able by jurisdiction anid standard themes based on the  sharing on major development topics, projects, and
Basel Committee Core Principles of Effective Bank  programs, receives substantial content and support
Supervision. GBLD pr6vides the first electronically ac-  from the Bank, including for the Gateway's pages on .
cessible collection of commercial banking, central bank,  Environmental Law and Judicial and Legal Reform. .,
resources legislation. The Bank has developed a  Justice, and Development series of moniographis
handbook, Legislatingfor Suistainable Fisheries, in  recently launched by the Legal Vice Presidency.
collaboration with the U.N.'s Food and Agriculture  In June the Bank's Legal Vice Presidency, together
Organization. The handbook introduces the key aims  with the U.N. Environiment Programme, cosponsored a
and provisions of two major international conventions  conference in Montreal, "Sustainable Justice 2002: lImple-
that are aimed at prornoting sustainable fisheries, and  menting International Sustainable Development Law."
it provides a toolkit of drafting techniques that coun-  The conference's recommendationis on sustainable de-
tries may use to transform these provisions into na-  velopment law issues will be presented at the World
tional law. The handbook is the first in the new Law,  Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg.
Chapter 4 Thematic Perspectives  79






'4                      4                                 Chapter 5
Gross Domestic Product per Capita Index                               Regional Perspectives
1991-2001
Africa                      East Asia and Pacific               Map of Country Offices
200                               200                        182               and Borrower Eligibility                  82
150                               150                    ~                   Africa                                      84
100                     100       100
100                               100
East Asia and Pacific                       89
so                                50
South Asia                                  93
0                                 0
0! 8,                            CD,-0            Europe and Central Asia                    98
Latin America and the Caribbean            103
South Asia                  Europe and Central Asia
200                               200                                        Middle East and North Africa               108
0so                        142    150
100  1        -      -            100                     93
100                               100
50                                50
0                                 0
Latin America and the Caribbean     Middle East and North Africa
200                               200
150                               150
1 0                      ~~~~~~100               108
0114                            100-------
50                               50                                          Figures for the number of people with HlV/AlDS pre-
sented in the Fast Facts boxes in this chapter repre-
0                                 0                                         sent UNAIDS estimates as of December 2001 and are
0  a,                0              ~~~~~~~~~~~based on UNAIDS regional definitions, which differ
N  -                 N              ~~~~~~~~~~somewhat from those used by the World Bank. For
Source: World Development indicators database,                                more details, visit www.unaids.org.



(part of the East Asia
&W~~~~~~~~~ad Paii r-        m  yegi  W   t
LainA erica an
b 2J                                    F                       ,. oomm,
2 o                                                                             I@+Pifoli 'oj 2  i
o ox ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    .......t .......  C.
J-/
d k N      P                                      .~~~~~~~~~ontis elgil fo BDud  onl
fJUJ                           Contie  eligbl (partben  of IBRD Eand IA fnsia** J
dnd Pacific    for                   , : only
YlSlo            .*wU " *** ~~Inative IaDA-ealigic2ble/ counrie
~~~~~~~~~~~fie               of th  Worl Bank4 otoloo  rlcs$2.  ilolt, ,4 '  Bai 
X~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~ Ofie with Conr Di.rectorpresent
Wffiu°~~~~~~~~                               ~~~~       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ Bonoo  r  R 4,  '0
@(  l % [l                                  R B de Venezuela  O.   ,  '-fr. 
3(fi)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     (  Co    nre e l i g iblea  fo BD ud ol
(pa Ofi e of the Eastd Asaank.                    RBd
o-   ffce-wih outr Diethe Caribbean



Middle East and                          Europe and                                                     .                IBRD 31937
North Africa                          Central Asia
FY02 New Commitments                  FY02 New Commitments
IBRD $451.8 million                  IBRD $4,894.7 million
IDA $102.7 million                    IDA '  I$628.9 million
Portfolio of Projects $5.4 billion  n  Portfolio of Projects $16 billion
t                           8--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asa Fede-ac-
0~~~~~~~~~- 
'    \ ,       aF_rtk7  wa nt_ P. 
Ch               re A    *             East Asia and
m oc  a1          g             oS bt lan  9; bimis§ 0;R          China           Rlpl    ,                 Pacific
S  r  Algelia  1   \ Alab Rept ~ <\  tPaRlsv O lPa-|latQscffi   )  t t        FY02 New Commitments
f1y-rtX         t         \ rt Egypt \\  *   f    _\g           ;ddsibt &           /     *                 IBRD $982.4 million
Maurit$udLania                                             moo ~_8 5ffi8-< 0j t  8 Ind,   a                 IDA $791.2 million
*  5.  H~~~~                                                            ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ana  X  0 w;
Guinea-His an                                                                                         Portfo Nigeri  0  *  e   Stares o Mlio ofronesi
N0ge,9cts                                                                                                 25Ma snlli,olanu
'+~~~~~~~~e aa                                                                                           a**t"Suhsa*<j ........ 
*                                                    .7~~*
u in e ra I<                           a 7
:o     Heua  J      U                      BD$9mllo 
Euhiop                                                            Sot Asia                          .acea
EX~~~~eno                       doB FY0            FY02 Newimet  Comtet    r'                                '*
I                         MalaI  $   milio I
Poan *,* l            Sotfli of/oet 1. ilo
FY2Neoomimeto'-
IBRD 5893 miol $41.8emilli
~~'ee.Aih ~~~~GanC     IDA $3,751.6IDA millionmllio
Ma                       Portfolio of Projects $15.3 billion
IDA $3,751.6 million~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~earaae a n D Sraia nfscl202
Please see Sne Offices SI the World BHnk aind Oum,ry EfiGibiliry tor
Horraw ng from the W., d Batik tab es an pages 123 arrd 131 respecriary
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives      83



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
09  X              - :_             -~                          *-                                  _.   r
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso  :     r
Burundi          Af rica                                          has made it possible to cushion the economic
Cameroon     -                                                    shocks in several countries. Aid flows to Africa
cape Verde       A new dynamilic has emerged on the continent, with  have been declininig, having fallen in per capita
Republic    .   African people and leaders increasinigly taking the  terms by about 40 percent over the past decade,
Comoros          reins of the development agenda. Despite a difficult  although recent commitments at the Monterrey
Congo,           economilic enviroimiienit, growth in Africa has aver-  conference hold out the prospect for a reversal of
Democratic     aged about 3 percent in the last fiscal year, and well-  these trends.
Republic of
Congo,           managed countries, which have implemented solid     Progress has been made toward restoring peace
Republic of    reform agendas and bUilt a record of stability and  and stability in key parts of the continenit. The peace
C6te d'lvoire
Equatorial       good governaice, had an avcragc growtth of 4 per-  process in Ethiopia and Eritrca is gradually pro-
Guinea          cent. This still falls short of the 7 percent nceded to  gressing, bringing newv hopes for development to
Ethiopia         reach the Millennium Developmenit Goal (MDG)     one of the poorest parts of Africa. In the Great
Gabon            of halving poverty by 2015. Governanice issues con-  Lakes subregion the stabilization process in the
Gambia, The      tinue to plague a number of counitries in the region,  Democratic Republic of Congo is progressing well
Ghana
Guinea           while the slow pace or lack of political and eco-  and could turn a country where chaos and conflict
GKuinea-Bissau   no pic progress in some of the key countries also  have been predominianit over the past 10 years into
Lesotho          affects investors' perceptions of the continenit.  an enginie of growth for the subregion. Sierra Leone
Liberia     -    While the prospect of Africa mectinig the M DGs  is movinig firmly towar-d lasting peace, and a peace
Madagascar
Malawi           remainis uncertaini, the picture is not a unifiorm  treaty has been signed between the government and
Mali             one. Increased primary school enrollimenits have  rebels in Angola, possibly ending Africa's longest
Mauritania
.Mauritius  i,miproved prospects in education, but such progress  civil war. Violent conflict in Africa may have re-
Mozambique       has not been registered in the health sector. Ilhc  duced growth rates in the region by between I and
Niger b          spread of human imimluniodeficienicy virus/acquired  2 percentage points over the past decade.
Nigeria          imimiunie deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) is having
Rwanda        :an impact on growth anid income and threatenis to  WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Sao Tomb and  ..WOL                                                       BAK     SITNC
Principe        wipe out importanit gains in life expectancy.
Senegal             The global economic slowdown has also had a   IDA flows to Africa increased significantly in fiscal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone  .negative impact on Africa's developimieint. Sevcral  2002, reachinig a 10-year high of $2.6 billion, and
Somalia          countries registered slower export market growthi,  fiscal 2002 commitments reached $3.7 billion. The
South Africa
Sudan            especially in nontraditionial exports suchi as horti-  increase was a result of both improved maniagemilenit
Swaziland        cultural products. The situationi has becn partic-  of the project portfolio in the Africa region and evi-
Tanzania      -ularly diffictilt for non-oil-commodity-depeindenit  dence of significant improvements in the policy en-
Togo
Uganda           countries such as copper-producing Zambia or     vironment in a majority of African countries.
Zambia           cotton-producilng countries in WAest Africa. Farm   This increase is expected to be sustained in the
subsidies in the industrial countries have also  corning years, with the objective of 50 percent of
distorted and depressed prices for some products,  IDA resources being directed to Africa. New coill-
limiting developing-country farmers' prospects for  mitments were chanieled through both adjustment
escaping poverty. This situation has firther high-  and investmenit operations, but while adjustmenit
lighted the need for export divcrsification, which  lendinig remained at the level of the 11 th Replenish-
The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Total population: 0.7 billion
Population growth: 2.3%
Life expectancy at birth: 47 years
ment of IDA (IDA I 1), investment operations are ex-    Lifa   moetaliy p    1 bir   ths: 91
pected to increase by over 60 percent during the IDA 12  Female youth illiteracy: 27%
period (fiscal 2000-02). Disbursements are expected to   2001 GNI        illita: 270
gradually increase from the level of $2.25 billion       2001 GNI per capita: $470
reached in fiscal 2001.                                  Number of persons living with HIV/AIDS: 28.5 million
This trend was accompanied by the further devel-      Note: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female
youth illiteracy are for 2000, other indicators are for 2001, from the World Devel-
opment of new instruments to channel resources di-       opment Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI0 is now used
rectly to communities and grassroots organizationis,     instead of gross national product (GNP).
tackle regionwide issues, and prepare for the introduc-
tion of grant components in Bank-funded projects.                   [m@ Total FY02
Also, in the context of the Poverty Reduction Strategy    7O1                           Disbursements
Paper (PRSP), an increased share of resources will be     fm'. el ,   IIIi.;,           IBRD $87.3 million
channeled through programiimatic lending, which is        i        i ^ ~   fi           IDA $2,563.9 million
expected to represent 22 percent of lending under
IDA12, compared with 6 percent under IDAI 1. In          Portfolio of projects under implementation as of
parallel, the quality of Bank-funded projects increased  June 30, 2002: $15.3 billion
notably. Sixty-four percent of projects completed in                                                         -  -
fiscal 2000 were rated satisfactory by the Operations
Evaluation Departmenit, which is a I 0-year high. The
proportion of projects and commnitnmenits at risk is
down from 40 percent and 42 percent, respectively, in
fiscal 1997 to 15 percent and 17 percent currently.    '-  -
In order to maximize the impact of assistance, the
allocation of IDA resources across countries has mir-
rored the quality of policies and institutions. Several
countries, including 13urkina Faso, Ghana, Mali,
Mozambique, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda, have,
as a result, received increased assistance. In addition,
the Bank re-engaged in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, C6te d'lvoire, Eritrea, and Ethiopia-countries
emerging from conflict or political instability.
The Bank has continued its efforts to have African-
countries fully benefit from debt relief through the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative and to en-
sure the effective use of resources in alleviating poverty.                 *                                    -
Under the Initiative, 26 countries (of which 22 are in           _          ,
Africa) were granted $41 billiopl in debt service relief
Culverts are essential for safeguarding accessibility. Construction of
from all creditors, reducing debt by about two-thirds  culverts is undertaken under the IDA-funded feeder road project
and increasinlg social spending by some $830 million  in Zambla.
per year.
REGIONAL PRIORITIES                                    identified: (a) improving governanice and resolving
conflict; (b) developing Africa's enormous huLimani
The Bank's strategy in Africa is to accelerate progress  resource potential; (c) diversifying production and in-
toward the MDGs. The strategic objectives are consis-  creasing competitiveness; and (d) reducilng aid depend-
tent with those outlined by African heads of state in the  ence and debt, and strengtheninig the partnership with
Newv Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD)      the donor commiluniity.
Framework and are based on the analysis of the semi-      The Bank continues to focus on somc importanit rc-
nal 2000 study, Cani Africa Claimii the 21st Cetitiury?  gional priorities, includinig postconflict support, capac-
(see box 5.1). Four major areas of focus have been    ity building, assistance in dealing with communlicable
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives    85



BOX 5.1 A PARTNERSHIP FOR AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
There is a growing consensus, both within Africa and  ensuring that Africans take the lead responsibility for
among donors, that a rebalancing of power and ac-  their development strategies.
countability is needed among government, the private  NEPAD builds on many of the principles of the PRSP
sector, and civil society, as well as a rebalancing be-  approach that has been put into place at the national
tween countries in the region and the donor com-   level. Over the past two years 39 countries have com-
munity. This new development approach underpins   pleted interim PRSPs and eight have completed full
the PRSP process as well as NEPAD.                 PRSPs. Several key lessons have already been learned.
NEPAD has amplified Africa's approach to poverty  First, the principles underpinning the PRSP approach
reduction. Adopted by African heads of state in July  are rapidly taking root. Although the degree of effec-
2001, the homegrown framework puts primary respon-  tive participation varies with each country, the PRSP
sibility for success on African governments and African  process has established a presumption in favor of open-
people, and it emphasizes the importance of gover-  ness, transparency, and participation. Second, civil soci-
nance, participation, wider markets, and private initia-  ety's efforts have improved PRSP content in many cases,
tive in ensuring development. A meeting in March   particularly in drawing attention to the problems of so-
2002 involving delegations from 21 countries produced  cial exclusion and bad governance. An analysis of
eight draft codes of behavior and set up an African  budget trends for 32 low-income countries suggested
peer review mechanism. Another meeting in April 2002  that full PRSPs were associated with a significant in-
discussed private financing for development. Although  crease in spending on basic social services between
it is new, NEPAD marks an important step toward   1999 and 2001.
g   ! _  ! !  -  grant facility existing under IDA 12 to provide assis-
4     1 *  _ \  * eiw ftance to countries that took convinicinig steps toward
- .-  \'-social and economic recovery. The Democratic
^   .  Republic of Congo received a $50 millioni grant to
help stabilize the economy and contribute to address-
ing such pressing issues as HIV/AIDS. The Bank also
developed an operational agenda to better tackle post-
conflict issues.
4 * g  $> i EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
The Bank continLes to support efforts in Africa to
a                      X- -- I >f1.,<j1 .= St_iq build capacity and strengtheni institutions. It wvorks
89l - SW4                        -                               through the Harare-based African Capacity-Building
Millions ofAfricans still do not have access to safe drinking water  Foundation, to which it has made a $150 millioni
Women in Ghana at a water post                    multiyear commitimienit in support of the Founda-
tion's activities. The Bank is also facilitating knowl-
edge and experience sharing among African
diseases, further debt relief, market access for African  professionals.
products, and regional integrationi.
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Communicable Diseases
The Bank increased support to Afi-ican countries that  Health issues, particularly communicable diseases such
are emerging from conflict, taking advantage of the  as HIV/AIDS, pose important challenges for Africa's
86      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 5.1 Africa: IBRD and IDA Lending by Theme,       Figure 5.2 Africa: IBRD and IDA Lending by Sector,
Fiscal 2002                                            Fiscal 2002
Share of total of $3.8 billion                         Share of total of $3.8 billion
Environmental & Natural       Economic                  Water, Sanitation &      Agriculture, Fishing &
Resource Management 4%         Management 4%             Flood Protection 3%       Forestry 6%
Rural Development 9%                     lic Sector    Transportation                    La & u
i - M / \ Pubilc Sector ~~~~130/                             /a| Law & Justice & Public
Urban              ^                - | /                     \ Governance  -     Administration 24%
Development 7%
Mining
13%
\ } - ~~~~Rule of Law \
Human                    /. . .    1%/o                          ;          2       , Information &
Development                    Industry                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Communication 1 %
Development                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Trade 7%
V   l   /Financial &                       d   cEducation 12%
\ A1   /    Private Sector              Health &
Social Development.             Development 21°%         Other Social       Finance 5%
Gender & Inclusion 9%                                     Services 16%
Social Protection &    Trade & Integration
Risk Management 3%        1%
development. The Bank has approved $1 billion to       Trade and Integration
fight HIV/AIDS in Africa, and $552.5 million has been  Regional integration in Africa is seen1 as one approach
committed in 16 countries; projects are under prepara-  to creating a larger economic space with more
tion in 15 others. The continued spread of HIV/AIDS    opportunities for investors and entrepreneurs. The
is wiping out important gains in life expectancy in the  Bank is supporting regional efforts to create inte-
region; the disease has already claimed the lives of   grated markets and initiatives aimed at increasinig
more thani 18 million Africans. World Bank support     cooperation to address comm111on issues in a regionial
this year reached more countries and subregional        context, such as with the Nile Basin Initiative. Two
HIV/AIDS programs. For the first time, the 13ank pro-   regional IDA operations became effective in fiscal 2002:
vided support for cross-border HIV/AIDS initiatives,    a $9.4 million project to strengtheni paymncits systemiis
targeting such transportation routes as the Abidjan-    in the West Africa Economic and Monetar-y Union,
Lagos corridor, which passes through C6te d'lvoire,    and a $5 million trade facilitation project in East Africa.
Ghana, Togo, Benin, and Nigeria. The Bank is also          The Bank has been a fervent advocate for a fairer
involved in regional programs such as the Oncho-       post-Doha trade system, urging industrial countries
cerciasis Control Program and the Roll Back Malaria    to increasingly open their markets to African products.
Campaign.                                              The Bank has also provided technical support to
African countries in trade negotiationis.
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives     87



Table 5.1 World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Africa, by Theme and Sector, Fiscal 1993-2002
(millions of dollars)
1993-97   1998-99
(annual   (annual
average)  average)    2000      2001      2002
THEME
Economic Management                                165.9     165.0      78.2     138.5     138.7
Public Sector Governance                           317.6     291.7     495.3     429.6     851.9
Rule of Law                                         42.1      21.0      26.7      34.0      22.5
Financial and Private Sector Development           564.6     509.0     466.7     625.8     780.7
Trade and Integration                              158.4      120.5      53.7    261.5      46.4
Social Protection and Risk Management               67.4      117.2     140.5    376.4      98.3
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion          145.9      167.6    210.5     491.8     347.4
Human Development                                  256.3     267.7     208.5     399.4     739.0
Urban Development                                  319.1     253.8     154.9     206.1     279.6
Rural Development                                  237.9     393.6      151.8    296.3     329.2
Environmental and Natural Resource Management      201.0     156.0      172.4    110.0     159.9
Theme Total                                       2,476.0   2,463.2   2,159.1   3,369.6  3,793.5
SECTOR
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry                 164.1      170.0     111.5    212.0     210.4
Law and Justice and Public Administration          551.4     610.9     834.9     880.8     906.9
Information and Communication                       19.2      36.7       17.3     21.1      33.8
Education                                          223.5     304.4      189.8    209.5     472.6
Finance                                            172.0       53.7     121.7    200.1     192.8
Health and Other Social Services                   240.1     273.6     183.1     889.9     616.6
Industry and Trade                                 317.1      94.3      104.7    170.6     266.7
Energy and Mining                                  269.3     244.0      176.3    198.0     490.3
Transportation                                     376.1      533.5     263.9    229.8     491.1
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection            143.1      142.0     155.9    357.8     112.2
Sector Total                                     2,476.0    2,463.2   2,159.1   3,369.6  3,793.5
Of which IBRD                                     62.3       31.2      97.6      0.0      41.8
Of which IDA                                    2,413.7   2,432.0   2,061.5   3,369.6  3,751.6
Note Lending is summarized in the 11 main theme categories and 10 main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral system, which includes
68 themes and 57 sectors. See table 2.2, page 30. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. In fiscal 2002 under phases 1 ($500 million
earmarked n fiscal 2001) and 11 ($500 mil ion in fiscal 2002) of the Multicountry AIDS Program for Africa, the Bank approved 9 operations total ng
$262.3 million in new IDA commitments.
88      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



- - ~~~~~~w
_ _  P                           _   _  _   _   _  _   _ 5  >                        'Countries
- . ~ ' A       ;   _   Eligible for
w                              ^,,.      ~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank
Borrowing:
E as$t A     s I a  a n d  Pa Cific " C       and partnerships play a large role in the effec-
tiveness of this approach. During the fiscal year the  1
The East Asia and Pacific region was hard hit by  Bank supplemented policy advice and technical  C
the global economic downturn of 2001. Growth  support with nearly $1.8 billion in new loans, cover-  W
fell from over 7 percent to less than 5 percent. But a  ing about 27 projects. The strategic thrust of Bank  1
quicker and more robust regional recovery appeared  assistance continues to focus on building the cli-  b
to be under way by early 2002, supported by a  mate for investment, improving public sector gover-  ZiTEII [b
stronger-than-expected recovery in major export  nance, investing in poor people and empowering   =
markets like the United States and solid local private  them, and protecting the environment (see box 5.2).
consumer spending. A more balanced recovery rest-
ing on increased exports and domestic demand     ___j
seemed likely. Political stability improved as new
governments in Indonesia, the Philippines, and    BOX 5.2 POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGIES
Thailand strengthened their mandates and their    IN EAST ASIA-REGIONAL, NATIONAL,
credibility with the public. China's still-robust econ-  AND LOCAL                            b
omy was pulling in imports at a near-10 percent
pace in the first several months of 2002 and contin-  In Cambodia, East Timor, the Lao People's
ued as a bright spot in the regional export and eco-  Democratic Republic, Indonesia, Mongolia, and
nomic picture, enhanced by the anticipated impact  Vietnam, programs are under way to develop
of China's entry into the World Trade Organization  nationally owned Poverty Reduction Strategy
(WTO), the increased pace of its institutional re-  Papers (PRSPs). Governments have taken the
form program, and its emergence as a key center   lead on a comprehensive strategy that draws
of regional trade and investment flows.           on participatory poverty assessments, consulta-
The impact of the 2001 downturn on poverty in  tions with civil society, and coordination with
East Asia and Pacific was muted because growth fell  donor partners. PRSP teams from these coun-
most in countries with low poverty. Robust growth  tries recently met in Hanoi at a conference
in China and other transition countries, which con-  sponsored by the World Bank, Asian Develop-
tain the large majority of the region's poor, helped  ment Bank, and U.N. Development Programme
offset any widening income disparities. Still, a sus-  to learn from each other's experiences. A
tained regional recovery is important to counter the  follow-up session shared lessons on integrating
long-term trend of slow poverty reduction since   gender issues into poverty strategies. In Viet-
the mid-1990s-and to ensure that countries in     nam local governments and communities are
East Asia remain on track to achieve the Millen-  taking the lead in developing their own targets
nium Development Goals (MDGs).                    and action plans to meet the MDGs with Bank
and Department for International Develop-
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE                             ment (DfID) support. In Mongolia and the Lao
People's Democratic Republic, the Bank is carry-
One of the Bank's primary objectives is to support  ing out reviews of public expenditure, financial
poverty reduction in the client countries, using  management, and procurement to help under-
country assistance strategies that are focused on the  pin an improved budgetary focus on the poor.
countries' development needs. Strategic alliances
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives     89



East Asia and Pacific Fast Facts
Total population: 1.8 billion
Population growth: 1%
Life expectancy at birth: 69 years
Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 36                       BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Female youth illiteracy: 4%                                 Domestic business revitalization and recovery in pri-
2001 GNI per capita: $900Doetcbsns                                            etazto      ndrovymp-
Number of pers   ivin   wD             1   l               vate capital flows call for more emphasis on strength-
ening the investment climate. The Bank is preparing a
Note: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female  legal reform loan in Mongolia and is undertaking legal
youth illiteracy are for 2000, other indicators are for 2001, from the World Devel-  needs assessments in a number of countries, including
opment Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI) is now used
instead of gross national product (GNP).                    Vietnam. In China the Bank is providing technical
assistance on financial sector reform, access by small
T~jfl~'                       Total FY02                    and medium enterprises to financial services, govern-
inmm i,Wts          Disbursements                 ment bond market development, and securities market
,In8~.4mil~r~                IBRD $2,846.4 million          regulation-reforms made all the niore urgent by Chi-
(lE.2El:Ii,0:rj               IDA $745.1 million            na's accession to the WTO.
To help regional competitiveness and to meet high-
;  M.  l*l:9:f..1      :S [J3Ip4IIqsI:g;SIae            tech challenges, the Bank is investing in information
_uipc~sSsS~m'y~u~p.1iiic.1.                                infrastructure, technology innovationi and adaptation,
and skills development. It is sponlsoring country
-; .^ ^  ,  ,   -  # ^ r gFNw  R Inniovationi Days as part of the global Development
lv-                                     -. .  . t   @  ,  r   Marketplace-a competition encouraging innovation
and creative partnerships among nongovernmental
. A - 3 | 1 i - organizationis, businesses, and government. In Thai-
land it is funding 16 proposals to increase access to in-
t   formation services in rural communities in order to
help bridge the urban-rural digital divide. A new report
analyzes the Republic of Korea's experielice with firmn
in;novationi and its imiplications for public policy. The
Bank carried out assessmenits of transportation and
logistics in Cambodia, and in lagging regions of China,
the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and
'_-~ ,;    -     ~ Vietnamii, to identify ways to improve access to markets
;                               $              for low-income areas.
IMPROVING PUBLIC SERVICES
-  AND GOVERNANCE
The Bank's governance work focuses on decentraliza-
A schoolgirl stidying in Ningxia Province, China, at a school whose village
is benefiting from the Qinba Mountains Poverty Project, which is helping  non, bulding subnational capacity, icreasing public
the Chinese government improve the quality of and access to basic  sector transparency and accountability, and foster-
education.                                          ing stakeholder participation in project design and
implementation. Public expenditure reviews at the
The region's effectiveness is enhanced by basing  local government level are taking place in China and
nearly one-half of the staff and all country directors in  Indonesia. In I'hailand the Country Developmenit Part-
the field. T'he Bank also increasinigly emphasizes work  nership in Governance supports government efforts to
at the subnational level. This shift helps deepen the  improve the delivery of public services, strengthen gov-
reach of reforms at the nationial level and reflects an i1-  ermnienit decisionm1aking, and promote accountability
creasing trend of subnational responsibility for service  and transparency.
delivery and finanicing in the region. An estimiated  In China the Bank is working with the govern-
40 percent of the Philippines expenditures, 35 percent  menit to update the Ministry of Finance's coimpeti-
in Thailand (by 2006), and 25 percent in Indonesia are  tive bidding guidelines by introducinig fraud and
being delivered in this wvay.                       anticorruption measures. It is also helping to improve
90      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 5.3 East Asia and Pacific: IBRD and IDA    Figure 5.4 East Asia and Pacific: IBRD and IDA
Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002                     Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002
Share of total of $1.8 billion                    Share of total of $1.8 billion
Economic Management <1%                               Agriculture, Fishing &
Environmental & Natural  Public Sector                Water, SaiatiForestry   Law & Justice &
Resource Management 6%  Governance 7%                 Flood Proteitction &     Public Administration
Rule of Law 1%  _|     t                        6%
Rural                                             - Tnotion    \ 3Information &
Development'                                                                      nCommunication 1 %
/20%\ Financial &                                                         Education 8%
Private Sector
Urban     l                     Development
Development                          29%                                            F      12
4%                                                                          Finance 12%
Human            -
Development             lE ' Trade &    \   /
13%            -       Integration 2%     Energy & Mning            Health & Other
Social Development, Soc ial Protection &                            Social Services 14%
Gender & Inclusion 10%  Risk Management 8%              Industrv & Trade 1%
transparency in procuirement by establishing safe-  promote efficiency, transparency, and effectiveness. In
guards for World Bank projects and setting up new  China the Bank has embarked on a unique partnership
procurement procedures governed by a new bidding  with DfID, the British government aid arm, to finance
law. Civil servants and project staff were trained on the  a tuberculosis (TB) control project aimed at helping
new procurement framework. The Bank carried out   China meet its global TB targets by 2005 by expanding
about 30 postprocurement reviews once the new     directly observed treatment, short course (DOTS) to at
guidelines were in place. It has also used the Global  least 90 percent of the country's population and identi-
Distance Learning Network to conduct workshops on  fying and treating 2 million infections.
anticorruption approaches in other parts of the region,  The Bank has also been channeling support to areas
involving government and civil society in Bangkok,  of extreme poverty. In Indonesia, to improve road con-
Jakarta, Manila, and Singapore.                   ditions in its lagging eastern region, a regional trans-
East Timor's Community Empowerment and Local    portation project will serve 15 provinces in the eastern
Governance Project has set up 400 village development  islands. In Vietnam the Rural Electrification Project
councils and funds more than 800 smaller projects. In  aims to bring electricity to 2 millioni people in 32 pro-
Vietnam two IDA credit agreements were approved   vinces and 671 communities, one-third of which are
this year for decentralized, participatory projects to  designated as the poorest. A Global Development
help reduce poverty in 979 poor communities and help  Learning Center has been opened in Ningxia to trains-
3.4 million poor people by making investments in rural  fer knowledge to one of the poorest parts of China.
roads and markets, irrigation and water supply, basic
education and health, and community development   Protecting the Environment
budgets-all based on the expressed needs of poor  The Bank is funding studies of the links between
households and communities.                       poverty and the environment in Cambodia, the Lao
People's Democratic Republic, and Vietnam. It is fund-
Reducing Vulnerability and Ensuring That Poor     ing a forest conservation project in Papua New Guinea
People Benefit from Growth                        in partnership with the Global Environment Facility.
Bank strategy has evolved from supporting safety nets  With one-half of the population in the region's major
and crisis assessment to focusing on a social policy  countries living in cities, urban air and water pollution
framework that helps households manage social risks  is an extremely serious problem-which the Bank is
and enables the poor to participate in the benefits  addressing through investments in envirotnmental
of growth. Social programs emphasize community    infrastructure and policy advice. In the area of
empowerment and demand-driven approaches to       sanitation, the Bank has promoted the creation of
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives



Table 5.2 World Bank Lending to Borrowers in East Asia and Pacific, by Theme and Sector,
Fiscal 1993-2002
(millions of dollars)
1993-97   1998-99
(annual   (annual
average)  average)    2000     2001       2002
THEME
Economic Management                                40.6      280.0       0.0      0.0       4.8
Public Sector Governance                          239.9      543.1     556.2     65.1     127.4
Rule of Law                                        85.2       19.2       9.3      3.8      20.3
Financial and Private Sector Development         1,476.8   4,441.8     627.6    310.9     512.8
Trade and Integration                              193.3     333.2      36.2     40.0      43.3
Social Protection and Risk Management              165.0     708.4      55.2    239.4     136.6
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion          163.1     273.5      72.1    248.0     173.0
Human Development                                 420.9      406.1     81.1      52.6     226.4
Urban Development                                 702.9      900.8     230.6    433.1      63.6
Rural Development                                 851.6      855.6    430.3     341.6     363.1
Environmental and Natural Resource Management    1,177.6     932.4    880.4     399.3     102.3
Theme Total                                      5,516.8   9,694.2   2,979.1   2,133.8  1,773.6
SECTOR
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry                472.4      803.8     118.4    109.7     151.2
Law and Justice and Public Administration         398.9    1,066.5     590.3    255.3     115.2
Information and Communication                      150.9      51.9      20.0     12.5      11.1
Education                                         426.4      411.6      84.4     14.8     134.6
Finance                                           253.2    3,180.8      36.3     89.6     219.2
Health and Other Social Services                  248.3      581.6     118.4    217.3     243.8
Industry and Trade                                274.2    1,569.8      28.8    151.8       9.4
Energy and Mining                                1,502.5     517.0     640.5    142.2     314.5
Transportation                                   1,162.8   1,133.3     584.4    729.7     540.2
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection            627.1     377.9     757.7    410.8      34.4
Sector Total                                     5,516.8   9,694.2   2,979.1   2,133.8  1,773.6
Of which IBRD                                  4,389.6   8,800.9   2,495.3   1,136.1    982.4
Of which IDA                                   1,127.3     893.3     483.8    997.7     791.2
Note Lending is summarized in the I 1 main theme categories and 10 main sector categores in the new thematic-sectoral coding system, wlhich in-
cludes 68 themes and 57 sectors. See table 2 2, page 30. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.
autonom11ous water and wastewater companies and the  'I'he Banik is also working on rural development and
establishment of tariffs and pollutioll charges-both  land manlagemiient. A land management project in
to reduce emissionis and as a meanis of finanicinlg opera-  Cambodia was approved in iscal 2002 and aims to
tion and mainitenanice to guarantce long-ternm sIs-  assist the government in developing relevant policies
tainability. [he largest share of the Banik's pollution6  and regulations while establishing titling programs,
abatemiten1t investment has beeni lor wvater pollutioll.  ulider whichi about I millioni titles will be issued.
92      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



A- ~   ~       ~      ~      i
w   -                               t
Countries
Eligible for
-t - _  8  _5i,. -',, World Bank
Borrowing:
S o u t h    A  s i a                          more than 30 percenit in Bangladesh, Nepal, arid  ID&
Pakistan. However, there are indications, too, that  [1
South Asia is a region of tremenidous political, reli-  poverty might have stagnated or even risen in Nepal  9941Dgm
gious, ethnic, and linguistic diversity. With a popu-  and Pakistan over the past decade. Equally impor-
lation of 1.4 billion, South Asia has the world's  tant in the fight against poverty are indicators of
largest concentration of poverty and some of the  health and education, which continiue to be low in
worst human development indicators, particularly  South Asia, with womnen particularly disadvantaged.
for women. The economic and social progress of
this region is of significance to the entire world and
to the achievement of the Millennium Developmenit
Goals. W'hile the region's growth performance has  BOX 5.3 REDUCING POVERTY
continued to be respectable in the aggregate at
around 5 to 6 percent for over a decade and 5.4 per-  India accounts for one-third of the world's poor,
cent for 2001, it is still below South Asia's potential.  so reducing poverty in this nation of over 1 bil-
The aggregate figure also masks large variations in  lion people is a challenge of global significance.
performialce among the eight South Asian coun-    The current Bank country assistance strategy
tries, all of which face common challenges of accel-  (CAS) for India focuses on both strengthening
erating growth and huliianl resource development  the enabling environment for growth and on
by making their economilies more competitive and  pro-poor interventions such as health and edu-
better integrated with the world economy, and     cation, rural development, and the expansiori
expanding the provision of health and education   of access to economic opportunities for poor
services, especially for poor people.             people.
Events in fiscal 2002 influenced South Asia       A program of analytical work on poverty is
dramatically, from the opening up of Afghanistan  under way in support of the latter interventions,
to increased tension between India and Pakistan  including country and state level poverty assess-
and renewed hope of peace in Sri Lanka with the   ments, and technical assistance in monitoring
expected commencement of a peace process. In      both access to social services and changes in
Bangladesh a national election brought a new      poverty levels. In January 2002 the Indian Plan-
government to power in a poll read widely as a    ning Commission and the World Bank gathered
resounding call for change and better government.  national and international experts to discuss the
In Nepal the escalating Maoist insurgency brushed  measurement of poverty and ways in which ac-
aside earlier hopes of a dialogue, and uncertainty  curacy of information generated by household
across the region has had a negative impact on    surveys could be improved. The government
foreign investment.                               has also requested that the Bank help develop
Poverty in South Asia-and its measurement-     a project to implement a wide range of recom-
is the focus of an energetic debate in the region  mendations made by the National Statistical
(see box 5.3). Poverty has continued to decline   Commission to modernize India's statistical
from over 40 percent in the mid- I 980s to current  system.
estimates of arouLnd 25 percent in India and slightly  .-
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives     93



Total population: 1.4 billion
Population growth: 1.8%
Life expectancy at birth: 62 years                          Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, policy dialogue was the
Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 73                       focus of the Bank's program.
Female youth illiteracy: 40%                                   Afghanista"i's rapid transition from the status of a
Num    r of perss pivi   w    0           .6                country in conflict to one of full re-engagement with
Number of persons living with HIV/AIDS- 5.6 millionthBakasdmneanitnefoufrmak
the Bank has demanded an intense focus from Bank
Note: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female  staff (see box 5.4).
youth illiteracy are for 2000, other indicators are for 2001, from the World Devel-
opment Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI) is now used  Lendinig in Inidia is guided in every sector by ana-
instead of gross national product (GNP).                   lytical work; in fiscal 2002 the Bank delivered both
transportation and health sector reports, which were
Total FY02                    Total FY02                    discussed with national and state authorities. A review
New Commitments               Disbursements                 of power sector reforms, where progress continues to
IBRD $893 million             IBRD $908.7 million           be a challenge, drew on the experience of Orissa and
IDA $2,615.4 million          IDA $2,483.6 million          other states, as well as international experience.
_________  --  -   ---~=-.         Pakistan is in the third year of a comprehensive
- .l             r     az]     :    ]t:| tr   ~ ~--  i lX | program of reform designed to turn around deteriorat-
U         S iI     ll 11-                         - -        ing economic performance and restore the integrity of
the country's institutions.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Building a healthy investmiienit climate has been an im-
;hw                  t                    ,/ W rQ . - / / portant Bank priority across the region. In India and
9              .              e - O W _ t t JJ Pakistan, firms were surveyed in reviews of the invest-
I  -  ^   >  <                .= >s 2bk        m~~~~~~~~iient enivironment that helped identify the minc-
^  m   j   fstraints to private investment, as seen by investors
themselves. Adjustmiienit lending in Pakistan, and at the
state level in India (in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh),
explicitly supported policy reforms that seek to restore
/{{/  y  y   ie  5  1           ~~~~~fiscal sustainiability, reform public expenditure m-an-
agement, and improve the overall fuLnctioninig of
governments to increase efficiency in the use of public
resources and delivery of social services.
-The provision of roads is a critical componienit of
Approved in June 2002, the Emergency Education Rehabilitation and  the Bank's poverty focus, improving the productivity
Development Project in Afghanistan focuses on a countrywiide plan for  of the economy and opening up market access anid
learning and skill development,                     delivery of basic services to the poor. Infrastructure
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE                               projects in India and Nepal sought to provide much-
needed investments that will help reduce transporta-
The Bank's focus in South Asia has continiued to be  tion and telecommunication costs. These include three
on supporting sustainable reforms: fiscal consolida-  projects in India: the Kerala State Transport Project
tion, privatization, trade liberalization, and bankinig  (IBRD $255 million); the Mizoram State Road Trans-
reform; establishing transparenicy, effectiveness, and  port Project (IDA $60 million); and the Mumbai
accountability of public institutions; and supporting  Urban Transport Project (IBRD $463 million and
the expansion of services to the poor. Bank lending  IDA $79 million); and in Nepal, a Telecommunication
is based on an extensive program of analytical work  Sector Reform Project ($22.6 million). In India the
in the form of reports, workshops, policy notes, and  transportation sector report complements the Bank's
ongoing policy dialogue.                            ongoing support for highways and looks ahead to
Lending for fiscal 2002 was $3.5 billion, concen-  next steps.
trated on support for reforn and investments in        Power reform is particularly important in South
agriculture, health, education, and infrastructure. In  Asia. In virtually every country, but particularly in
94      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan, large subsidies for  BOX 5.4 AFGHANISTAN IN TRANSITION
power have become the single largest source of fiscal
imbalances. Reduction of these subsidies is an essen-  Since the collapse of the Taliban and the installa-
tial step to restoring national and subnational fiscal  tion of the U.N.-brokered Afghanistan Interim
balances and to freeing resources for much-needed   Administration, the most urgent need has been the
investnmenits in infrastructure and social services. In  i  creation of sustainable security and the urgent
addition, availability of reliable power is a key con-  I  opening up of opportunities to bring Afghan
straint to private sector investments and activities, and  women and men into the process of restarting the
reduces opportunities for rural employment and      country's economic and social development.
growth.                        ,In November 2001 a conference on preparing
In Pakistan a newly expanding Bank program has    for Afghanistan's reconstruction was hosted in
supported institutional reforms through analytical  Islarmabad by the Bank with its partners, the'U.N.
work, advisory services, dialogue, and lending of   Development Programme and the Asian Devielop-'
$800 million for fiscal 2002, including a banking sector  ment Bank. This set the stage for the rapid delivery
credit of $300 million. Institutional reforms have fo-  of ajoint preliminary needs assessment in prepara-
cused on financial management, decentralization, tax  tior for an international donor conference in
reform, reorganization of the central bank, and corrmp-  I  Tokyo, at which over $4.5 billion was pledged by all'.-
tion, all captured in the CAS presented to the Board in  doniors to rebuild the war-ravaged country. Since
June 2002 and designed to support the implementationi  then, and faithful to the guiding principle that
of Pakistan's poverty reduction strategy for the next  Afghanistan's recovery has to be led first and fore--
three years.                                        most by Afghans themselves, the Bank's Board has
approved four emergency projects with an empha-
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE                           i  sis on supporting the administration of incoming
funds with transparency and accountability, and a
The empowermiient of poor people is a central objective  series of efforts designed to provide quick delivery
in South Asia, again pursued through both analytical  in aireas such as education, infrastructure, and com-
and advisory services and lending. Poverty assessments  mufiity participation.
in Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan are increasing the  'A total of $100 million has been delivered in''
understanding of recent poverty trends and the reasons  grant support from IDA. The Bank's re-engagement  .
behind them. In India the findings of the health report  is guided by a Transitional Support Strategy that
will guide future Bank engagement, starting with a  was approved by the Board on April 4, 2002. The
Health Systems Development Project being prepared   Bank is also administering the Afghanistan Recon- - -:
for Rajasthan.                                      struction Fund. In April, and under the chairman-
Tro help organize communities, increase economic  ship of Afghanistan's Ministry of Finance, donors
opportunities to the poor, and increase access by the  and international agencies met in Kabul to dis-
poor to social services and infrastructure, the Bank  cuss the administration's National Development
has financed community-based projects in India with  Framework and fiscal 2002 recurrent budget
the Karnataka Tank Management (IDA $99 million),    requirements.                        . -   -
Rajasthan (IDA $140 million), and Uttar Pradesh (IDA  L
$149.2 million) Water Sector Restructuring Projects,
and the Second Karnataka Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (IDA $151.6 million).
In education a successful stipend program is     In Pakistan the Poverty Assessment and the gov-
helping to improve school enrollment of girls in  ernment's interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
13angladesh through the second phase of an IDA   (I-PRSP) represented the first substantive focus on
$120.9 million loan approved in March. Addition-  strategic priorities for poverty reduction in Pakistan in
ally, in Afghanistan, a $15 million grant is supporting  over five years. The Poverty Assessmenit presents a deep
skills development for women and girls with a special  understandinig of poverty trends throughout the 1990s,
focus on underserved groups such as war widows and  and the I-PRSP was hailed by the Bank's Board as one
illiterate young women.                          of the finest examples of poverty reduction planning.
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  95



GLOBAL PRIORITY: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
^..        With 4.2 millioni people infected in South Asia,
, - ,,,  ,  -   **(; --<;-'      <:~ - -4;^-t          huLiman imimlunodeficienicy virIs/acquired imimlunie
-   deficiency synidrome (HIV/AIDS) in the region is a
v picture of lowt prevalence but high risk. Governments
__   , ,.;Frs,:       .       Jr   ~      z ;t2F5|            in the region have recognized the effectiveness of early
it   u ^ -*F  y--,   r            responses-beginning wvith India in 1992-and are
Q     ;-. ___  -                             shaping public health policies with a focus on preven-
' t~~ ~ ' w=, ; - -_* ^@>- - F ._, ~~tioni, health promiotioii in high-risk populationis, miiti-
-                -    -n -               .                  ; gation, and somewhat hesitantly, treatment. The Bank
has supported this process through advisory atnd ana-
_vtical assistance and lending which, for HIV/AIDS,
an mouLits to $326.7 million for existing projects, with
~~~~- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~newv projects proposed for Pakistani anid Sri Lanka. All
.-i  ~ countries now have strong nationial programs, except
Nepal, where implementation of the national program
is weak and poorly financed, and Afghanistanl, where
thecsituationi nleeds to be assessed. Bank-supported
; $V>. , .. i,   HIV/AIDS projects are under implementationi in India,
hwhcrc the $191 million Second National HIV/AIDS
Control Project is ongoinig, and in Bangladesh with the
HIV/AIDS Preventioni Project funded by $40 millioin
,. . 8 @ *>4U ,.q't 'g_ I       from IDA and $10 million from the United Kingdom's
Department for Interinationial Development.
,,   ;4*S§,14  72't > Jnss    ~In 1Pakistan the goveriiillent has been implenmelit-
c - t v t!gi ;gu 1y! rA|~~~ ing a mlodest National AIDS C.ontrol Progranm since
1989 with sonic support from the Bank. Aware of the
growing challenge, the government has now sought
In India, water-related diseases are a major health problem. For women  t  xadti  rga  ae  nteNtoa
and children, fetching water remains an arduous and time-consuming  expand this program based on the National
daily task Four projects totalmng over S450 million in interest-free  HIV/AIDS Strategic Framestwork. With Bank analyti-
IDA support have been provided to India's water sector in the current  cal support, a project has been under preparation in
fiscalyear                                          fiscal 2002.The Sri Lankan government is developing
a program along similar lines.
Figure 5.5 South Asia: IBRD and IDA Lending by
Theme, ofitotal of$350 ilio               Figure 5.6 South Asia: IBRD ancl IDA Lending by
Share of total of $3.5 billionSector, Fiscal 2002
Environmental & Natural  Economic Management                 Share of total of $3.5 billion
Resource Management 8%  7%
Rural   ,<         ~      ~  Public Sector          Water, Sanitation &  Agriculture, Fishing &
Development           /             / \ Governance        Flood Protection 4%  Forestry 9%
12%   /      3       /     G 19% on                                            Law & Justice &
Transportation                    Public Administration
/   0                              /        >      /      f~~~~~~~~~22  8%
Information &
/      Rule of Law 2%                                    Communication
< i</ F~~~~inancial &                         _                         < O 
Urban\         \              Private Sector                              vEucation 3%
Developm ent \    /      \\/        Development 1 1 %\
22%    \4          \ lYrade & Integration 2%     Energy &
Mining 14%                       Finance 9%
Human Development1       Social Protection &                    f           > 
Risk Management 5%                           HHea      lth & Other
Social Dev elopment,                               Industry &     Social Services 8%
Gender & Inclusion 12%                               Trade 13%
96      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Table 5.3 World Bank Lending to Borrowers in South Asia, by Theme and Sector, Fiscal 1993-2002
(millions of dollars)
1993-97   1998-99
(annual   (annual
average)  average)   2000      2001      2002
THEME                                                                                        i
Economic Management                               45.2      85.3      35.2     47.4    232.5
Public Sector Governance                          40.0     254.9     212.7    261.0    678.0
Rule of Law                                       33.5      89.1      56.5     36.1  1  59.3
Financial and Private Sector Development         735.4     639.2     265.4    865.9    381.6
Trade and Integration                             25.6      84.5      29.4    398.3     70.0.
Social Protection and Risk Management            166.1     162.8     168.0    118.4    164.0
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion        360.1     328.9     261.5    240.5   -414.2.
Human Development                                385.3     627.5     276.2    124.8    '30.2
Urban Development                                181.6     297.1     300.7    186.8    766.2
Rural Development                                354.6     377.0     426.1    379.5    417.2
Environmental and Natural Resource Management    419.7     266.8      80.8    587.8    295.2
Theme Total                                     2,747.2   3,213.2  2,112.4   3,246.6  3,508.4
SECTOR
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry               305.2     534.4      65.0    116.1    328.1
Law and Justice and Public Administration        247.9     436.3     407.0    377.4    632.5
Information and Communication                      4.7      35.3      54.6     17.7     12.4
Education                                        280.8     385.1     171.4    206.4     95.9
Finance                                          205.3     168.2      46.0    209.7    310.0-
Health and Other Social Services                 489.5     589.3     393.3    188.1   '278.7,.
Industry and Trade                               173.1      68.3      85.3     34.0    443.1
Energy and Mining                                482.5     545.9     277.8    746.2    504.8.
Transportation                                   269.4     354.1     590.6   1,294.3   758l.1
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection          288.9      96.4      21.4     56.8     144.9
Sector Total                                    2,747.2  3,213.3   2,112.4  3,246.5  | 3,508.4
Of which IBRD                                  998.4    1,034.0    934.3   2,035.0    893 0
Of whichlIDA                                  1,748.8   2,179.3  1,178.1   1,211.5  2,61,5.4
Note: Lending is summarized in the 11 main theme categories and 1O main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral coding system, which in-
cludes 68 themes and 57 sectors. See table 2.2, page 30. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  97



A-                                     -4V* :      
I               --
V'.~~~~~~~~~~ - 
Voridank                                                               w   .                                               i
__r'owng                                                                                    _,_ __ - _ _____
VE110-n
Europe              and       Central                    posed Framiiework for World Banik GrouIp Support
to EU Accessionl Candidate Countries of Centr-al
A   sia                                                anid Eastern Euirope. In Southeast Europe there
gionial strategy continued to evolve from post-
~~~~ ~~All economies in Euirope anid Ceniti-al Asia-except          coniflict stabilization anid reconstrulCtionl to struIC-
* .        ~~~Turkey and the formier Yugoslav Repuiblic of        tLural reformn anid institutional developmienit. The
*          ~~~~Macedonia-grew duirinig 2001. 1 'he RuLssiani Feder-  Federal Republic oftYugoslavia's eligibility, tor Banik
ation anid Ukrainie, the last econiomies to emerge    leniding wvas restored, anid a major programi of
fromi the unecxpectedly long "t ranisformiationi reces-  adjustm-rent anid investment lenidinig was SUCCeSSfUlly
sion," grew at 5 percent anld 9.1 percenit, respectively,  launichecd. Th'le Banik's postconflict program of assis-
-. *  *    ~Overall, the Commonwealth of Inidependenit States      tanice to Kosovo continulLed. The seven IDA-eligible
*            ~~~~(CIS) grewv at 6.6 percenit. In Central anid Easterni  CIS COL1ntries-Armenctia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, the
* . .       ~~Europe growth averaiged 3.5 percenlt. In 'I urkcy,    Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Tajikistan, anid Uzbek-
howvever, markets responided somewhat miore slowly    istan, kniowni as thie CIS-7-aloing with bilateral
**   than expected to reformis, reSuIltinlg in an oLItput   doniors, nieighiborinig COunitries, anid four inlterna-
*           ~~~~declinie of 6.5 percenit.                           tionial finlancial inlStituItions (inicludinig the WAorld
Notwithstanidinlg this broad-based growth,          Banik, Initerniational Monietary Fund, ELuropeani Banik
Euirope and Cenitral Asia remiainis hiighly diverse,  for ReconistruICtionl aiid Development [EBRD], and
*           1)0~~bth in termis of per caipita inicomie anid global inlte-  Asiani Developmniit Bank) launichied a collaborative
grationl. Per capita incomie raniges fromi $10,0)70 in  international effort to accelerate growvth anid povcr-
*  *     ~~Slovenia to $1 70 in Tajikistain. Poverty prevalenice-  ty reduictioni throuigh initensified developmencit anid
although now genierally decliniing as a result of thie  reformi efforts anid the strenigthenled Involvement of'
* *         ~~~region's continuling growth-ranges fromi unider     the initerniationial commUnity,. Anid finially, the deep-
.     .     ~~~~5 percent to over 50 percenit of the popLulation.   eninig of reforms in the regioni's larger economiies,
-  0  0     ~~While mnany countries, especially those in Cenltral   while inicreasinig the nieed for Bank f-inanicial assis-
Europe anid the Baltics, are firmily headed toward    tanice in Turkey anid Ukrainie, is shiiftinig the demiand(
ELiropean anid global integration anid graduiationi    for Banik services towvard anialytic and advisory,
fromi Bank borrowing, others still struggle wvith      activities in Russia.
long-simimerinig tenisionis and the conistraints of       Tfhe Banik's Etirope and Cenitral Asia reg'ion op-
geography.                                             erationis durinig fiscal 2002 conitiniued to emiphiasize
inivestmenits, policy reformis, anid inlStituItionlal devel-
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE                                  opmient needed to .underpin Suistained growth anid
poverty reduICtionl in tranisitionl anid postcoinflict
ELurope anid Central Asia's diversity is reflected in  COunitries, anid anl accelerated struICtural reformii pro-
the evolution of the Banik's assistanice programi. Tfo  grami in crisis-stricken Tuirkey (see box 5.5). Lenid-
accommiiodate a rapidly chaniginig relationship with   inig during the year (iniclusive of four special finainc-
the advaniced EU accessioni counitries, the regioni de-  iing operationis) reachied $5.5 billion (of which
veloped a partniership framework for phiasinlg anid    $0.6 billioni were IDA and $4.9 billion wvere IBRD).
prioritizinig support to these counitries, the Pr-o-   Significanlt additionis wvere miade to the region's
0_0       ~~The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Total population: 0.5 billion
Population growth 0.1%
Global Environmental Facility (GEF) portfolio with  Life expectancy at birth: 69 years
Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 20
seven new pro)ects totaling $31 million. On the non-  I      m ortaliter  1%
lending front, several major activities were completed,  F a2001 GNI   it   196
including a retrospective report on the transition expe-   N p
Number of persons living with HIV/AIDS: 1 million
rience in Europe and Central Asia, a regionwide survey
of the gender impacts of transition, and an analysis of  Note. Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female
t  youth illiteracy are for 2000, other indicators are for 2001, from the World Devel-
the potential fiscal Impacts of EU accession on EU  l opment Indicators database The term gross national income (GNI) is now used
accession candidate countries.                      instead of gross national product (GNP)
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT                 Total FY02                   Total FY02
New Commitments              Disbursements
Most countries in Europe and Central Asia are rela-  IBRD $4,894.7 million       IBRD $3,393.9 million
tively well endowed, for their income levels, with phys-  IDA $628.9 million     IDA $429.8 million
ical and human capital. The most serious constraints                   -
on growth and poverty reduction lie in policies and                    lor;,   u  -   r   1. .A  i
institutions that distort the framework for economic  Do   4 X  gO.' ic jli6                     ,   ;
decisionmaking. This is reflected in comparative rat-                                                            U
ings of business environments, in which countries in
Europe and Central Asia typically fare poorly. The
Bank is tackling the underlying policy and institu-                                 . *  .  t
which include maintaining macroeconomic stability,                                                   t2N
legal reform, and improved corporate governance; sec-
toral reforms such as utility regulation and pricing, and  :  i-
better functioning labor and financial markets; and se- .-. _   t ;r.-v , . ' .                  frt'
lective investments in industrial restructuring and in-                              -,,,v'. I 
frastructure. To focus on achieving results in the field,     - v-                      ,,-' '
the Bank has been financing systematic enterprise sur-  --  P-'r
veys that track changes in the business environment         ;'-ti                   -
both at the country level (in Bosnia, Moldova, Russia,  .- 
and Ukraine) and at the regional level, together with       .-.-        X ,  -        , *    -
EBRD, with the Business Environment and Enterprise  * . *       ' " 
Performance Survey.
A rural enterpnse support project in Uzbekistan Is providing better quality
farm extension services to Uzbek women such as these who rely on agn-
IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR GOVERNANCE                culture for their livelihoods
Countries in Europe and Central Asia, particularly the
CIS, also fare relatively poorly on governance indica-
tors. To improve public sector performance, the Bank  It has promoted the adoption of new technologies with
has supported reforms to encourage voice, transparen-  support to e-government (applying information and
cy, and accountability through decentralization in Rus-  communications technologies to improve government
sia, Ukraine, Central Europe, and Southeast Europe. It  functioning) efforts in Russia and Ukraine. Finally, it
has supported reforms to enhance participation and  has supported anticorruption programs in Armenia,
competition in public service delivery and to marshal  Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz
the power of data to monitor outcomes with expenditure-  Republic, Romania, and the Slovak Republic.
tracking surveys in Albania and Macedonia. It has sup-
ported the strengthening of government institutions  EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
through tax and customs reforms in Kazakhstan, Rus-
sia, and Ukraine, and through country financial   Empowerment presents a special challenge in much of
accountability assessments in Albania and Azerbaijan.  the Europe and Central Asia region, where traditions
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  99



BOX 5.5 HELPING THE POOR WEATHER ECONOMIC          prepared I-PRSPs or full PRSPs (see http://poverty.
CRISIS-TURKEY'S SOCIAL RISK MITIGATION             worldbank.org). The Bank is supporting PRSP imiple-
PROJECT                                            inentation using a mixture of country-specific instru-
ments. Direct poverty reductioll lending focused on
With the support of the $100 million rapid re-     improvinig the risk maniagement capability of the poor
sponse component of a $500 million hybrid loan     in postconflict countries such as Bosnia and Herze-
from the Bank, in the 2001 calendar year Turkey    govina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and in
was able to reach 1.6 million poor people who      economiiic crisis situations such as in Turkey. Many new
have been hurt by the economic crisis of February  operations will use communiity-driveni development
2001. Cash and in-kind assistance, valued at about  approaches to confront economic and social risks in a
$35 per person, was provided to over 1 million     participatory manniier, including multisectoral social
poor schoolchildren. The money was used for out-   funds in Bulgaria, the former Yugoslav Republic of
of-pocket expenses such as clothing, textbooks, and  Macedonia, Romania, Tajikistan, and Ukraine. These
stationery-with the objective of supporting poor   operations increasingly target persistent poverty
families and, more importantly, preventing the     among the long-term unemployed and ethnic
schoolchildren from dropping out of school. This   minorities.
support helped prevent about 100,000 school
dropouts.                                          GLOBAL PRIORITIES
Food assistance was made available during the
religious festival season to 400,000 poor house-   Fighting Communicable Diseases
holds suffering from the economic downturn.        The numiiber of people living wvith human immiiuniode-
Given the depth of the crisis, most beneficiaries  ficiency virus/acquired imnmunie deficiency syndrome
require continued support throughout the year      (HIV/AIDS) in Europe and Central Asia has dramati-
and prefer cash to in-kind assistance.             cally increased to I millioni over the past decade, with
A further 200,000 very poor households re-      one-quarter of infections occurring in the past three
ceived cash and in-kind assistance for coal heating  years. Tuberculosis (TB) is also on the rise, with ap-
to provide warmth over the severe winter.          proximately 250,000 new cases each year, maniy of
These activities provided lessons that clarified  which are multidrug-resistant. Due to the links be-
the priorities for strengthening and improving the  tween the two diseases, the Bank is providing technical
social safety net in Turkey. Of key importance are  and finanicial support for the developmenit of stand-
conditional cash transfers to help meet basic needs  alone projects in Europe and Central Asia that aim to
and cash for social assistance to the poorest 8 per-  tackle the epidemics in Belarms, Moldova, Russia, and
cent of the population, with the requirement that  Ukraine. The Banik will also provide support to TB and
the beneficiaries keep their children in school and  AIDS activities in the context of health sector projects
take their preschool children regularly to health  in other countries in the region.
clinics:
Protecting the Environihent
Ozone-depleting substance phaseout wvork was coill-
and institutions of voice and accountability generally  pleted in Russia under a GEF operation that began
are still nascent. The Bank's support for improving the  in the late 1990s. Projects in Croatia, Romania, and
investmiienit climiate and its support for imlproving pub-  Ukraine were added to the Bank's GEF portfolio, and
lic sector governance both have strong empowerment  implemeintation of a forestry project commenced in
dimensions. The Bank is also promoting empower-    Russia. Support wvas provided to establish effective
ment through emphasizing broad participation in    public-private partnerships for improved environmiiieni-
the preparation of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers  tal performanice in Bulgaria; to deal with inherited
(PRSPs). Three countries completed their interim   environimiiental problems in Albania and Turkey; to
PRSPs (I-PRSPs) during fiscal 2002: Azerbaijan, Bosnia  use economic instrumiients and manage public finances
and Herzegovina, and the Kyrgyz Republic. In addition,  for enhanced environmental protection in the Republic
Albania completed a full PRSP, the first in the Europe  of Serbia, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and Ukraine;
and Central Asia region. In total, nine countries have  and to help EU accession candidates to identify cost-
100     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 5.7 Europe and Central Asia: IBRD and IDA     Figure 5.8 Europe and Central Asia: IBRD and IDA
Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002                       Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002
Share of total of $5.5 billion                       Share of total of $5.5 billion
Urban Development 1% -  Rural Development 6%                        Water, Sanitation &
Human Development 3%     Environmental & Natural                   Flood Protection 2%
Resource Management 3%           Transportation 1%    Agriculture, Fishing &
Social Development,           Economic                Eeg      iig4          oety9
Gender & Inclusion 3%           Management 12%          Energy & Mining 4%    Forestry 9%
Social Protection &                                       Industry &
Risk Management                                          Trade 10%
7%
Public         Health &   /
Trade                      PiSector    OtherSocialal 
Integration                                        Services 9 Governance  S             Law & Justice &
1%                              24%                                               Public
Administration
39%
Rule of Law 2%       Finance 2 /
Financial & Private
Sector Development                                                             Information &
40%                                                   Education 2%  Communication <1%
effective investment strategies to comply with EU    throughout the region. The Bank has also begun to
environmental standards.                             implement a broad-based program for the establish-
ment of a Global Development Learning Network
Supporting Trade and Integration                     (GDLN). In addition to the distance learning center es-
There are substantial untapped opportunities for    tablished in Ukraine last year, four additional centers
cooperation in many of Europe and Central Asia's     became affiliated with the GDLN in fiscal 2002: two in
subregions. Together with the European Commission,  Turkey and one each in Russia and the Federal
Europe and Central Asia programs provide support     Republic of Yugoslavia. Work has also commenced on
to EU accession candidates on numerous subregional  the establishment of an additional 10 to 12 centers in
activities, including transportation, environment, ener-  eight countries in the region.
gy, and knowledge economy strategies. Analytical work
on trade issues has also been undertaken for the coun-  International Financial Architecture
tries of Southeast Europe that are not EU accession  The Bank was an active participant in the Financial
candidates, includinig five country studies, a regional  Sector Assessment Program, wvith assessments com-
report in progress, and technical assistance. In the  pleted during the fiscal year in Croatia, Georgia, and
CIS-7, studies of trade, transportation, and telecom-  Latvia, and six additional assessments initiated for
munications have been carried out. Bank support for  completion in fiscal 2003 and 2004 in Bulgaria, the
trade integration in Russia and Ukraine is focusing on  Kyrgyz Republic, Lithuania, Russia, the Slovak Repub-
technical assistance for WTO accession.             lic, and Ukraine. As part of the review of standards and
codes incorporated in these assessments, evaluations of
Improving Information and Knowledge                 the legal and institutional framework for dealing with
The Bank has initiated a dialogue with EU accession  money laundering and terrorist financing are now
candidates to help the countries develop strategies to  being incorporated in the analyses. The Bank has also
increase their international competitiveness through  hosted, with the World Bank Institute, the first regional
more effective use of knowledge and technology in   dialogue-involving five countries in the region-on
both the public and private sectors. Approaches taken  issues related to combating money laundering and ter-
in these countries could provide lessons and experience  rorist financing.
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  101



Table 5.4 World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Europe and Central Asia, by Theme and Sector,
Fiscal 1993-2002
(millions of dollars)
1993-97   1998-99
(annual   (annual
average)  average)   2000     2001      2002
THEME
Economic Management                             328.5     723.2     98.6    127.4    636.1
Public Sector Governance                        384.8     547.7    227.8     95.6   1,313.7
Rule of Law                                      67.5      80.1    160.2     77.4    106.6
Financial and Private Sector Development       1,769.1  1,908.0    890.7   1,074.0  2,210.8
Trade and Integration                           319.9      91.6    143.5    138.4     32.5
Social Protection and Risk Management           247.1     575.6    530.1    381.2    363.9
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion        42.9     126.9     43.6     65.1    188.8
Human Development                               177.9     217.6    278.9     51.1    138.3
Urban Development                               287.8     248.9    153.6    383.9     65.4
Rural Development                               269.7     331.5    213.4    137.6    309.9
Environmental and Natural Resource Management   374.9     404.3    301.7    161.3    157.5
Theme Total                                   4,270.2   5,255.1   3,042.2  2,693.1  5,523.6
SECTOR
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry              237.5     114.5    317.8    139.0    470.4
Law and Justice and Public Administration       774.8   1,568.5    796.4    445.2   2,170.9
Information and Communication                    55.3       4.5    151.9      8.7      9.6
Education                                        70.7     299.2     22.7     62.5     83.2
Finance                                         461.7     484.0    176.6    803.6   1,295.9
Health and Other Social Services                306.9     359.7    277.8    281.9    524.7
Industry and Trade                              835.7     817.4    604.7    296.5    552.1
Energy and Mining                               889.6     849.2    398.6    336.6    218.0
Transportation                                  496.2     533.1    207.1    118.3     67.1
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection         141.6     225.0     88.5    200.7     131.7
Sector Total                                  4,270.2   5,255.2   3,042.1  2,693.1  5,523.6
Of which IBRD                                3,907.6  4,406.3   2,733.0  2,154.0  4,894.7
Of which IDA                                  362.6     848.9    309.1    539.0     628.9
Note: Lending is summarized in the 11 main theme categories and t 0 main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral coding system, which in-
cludes 68 themes and 57 sectors. See table 2 2, page 30 Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.
102    The World Bank Annual Report 2002



}~~~~ -
*       -                     -    mEE    i.
iK                              .1~-                                           Countries
Eligible for
World Bank
_3                                                                              Borrowing:
L a t i n  A  mn e r i ca    a n d              most pronounced in Argentina and neighborinlg
couLntries affected by its crisis.                ID
the Caribbean
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
While the economy of Latin America and the        O
Caribbean recovered from the shocks triggered by  In fiscal 2002 the Bank's strategy in Latin America
the 1998-99 crises in Asia and Russia, the recovery  and the Caribbean remained focused on fightinig
was short lived. After increasinig from 0. 1 percent  poverty while including adjustments to respond
in 1999 to 3.9 percent: in 2000, the region's annual  quickly to urgent social needs prompted by events
gross domestic product (GDP) growth declined to  such as the economic crisis in Argentina, a slump
0.4 percent in 2001. It is expected to decline slightly  in Caribbean tourism, and reconstrctioll in
in 2002 as a result of a weak global economy, a  El Salvador after two earthquakes in early 2001. In
sharp contraction in Argentina, and drought in  lamaica and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean    C
Brazil and Central America.                     States, where airline tourist visits dropped following
A decline in the growth of world trade and drops  the terrorist attacks, the Bank provided $75 million1
in export commodity prices reduced Latin America  and $20.9 million, respectively, to protect social  _____
and the Caribbean's cxport revenue growth to    programs and to strengthen airport security. The  o14v0fi
1.4 percent in 2001, after a 19 percent rise in 2000.  Bank's new assistance strategy for El Salvador coini-  & Fm l
The trade surpluses of oil exporters decreased, but  cided with the reconstruction effort there and in-  fh3
trade balances increased in other countries in the  cluded a $142.6 million loan to help restore health  V 3
region as they imiported less due to slower GDP  services undermined by the 2001 earthquakes that
growth. Overall, the iegioni's trade surplus increased  severely damaged hospitals and healtlh facilities.
by $17 billion, while the current account deficit  The Bank's commitment to fighting communicable
widened by $5 billion as a result of lower receipts  diseases was underscored in Latin America and the
from tourism and remittanices.                  Caribbean, too, with support for acquired immune
Evidence of progress toward achieving the Mil-  deficiency syndrome (AIDS) prevention and treat-
lennium Development Goals in Latin America and  ment in Barbados, Brazil, the Dominican Republic,
the Caribbean surfaced in 1999 data showing that  and Jamaica.
the proportion of people living on less than $1 a day  In Argentina, as economic conditions deteriorat-
had declined from 16.8 percent in 1990 to 15.1 per-  ed during 2001, the Bank provided a $400 million
cent. Some of these gainis were likely lost in 2001  structural adjustment loan to bolster the govern-
due to a decline in per capita GDP growth, especial-  ment's efforts to reverse increasing market pes-
ly in Central America and the Caribbean, which was  simism. By year's end, however, a serious economic
hit by drought, low coffee prices, a drop in tourist  and political crisis triggered an abrupt change in
traffic after September 11, and a decline in foreign  government and economic policies. The Bank re-
remittanices stemming from the U.S. economic    sponded with advice and technlical support in key
slowdown. Given expected trends in per capita GDP,  areas such as the bankinig sector, corporate debt re-
poverty will likely rise in 2002 and perhaps decline  structuring, renegotiationis of public utility tariffs,
modestly in 2003. Increases in poverty levels will be  and provincial finanices, while also redirectinig
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives      103



-       =SW  T 7r.11I          h       I ITfli tI   4
Total population: 0.5 billion
Population growth: 1.5%
Life expectancy at birth: 70 years
Lifant moptality pera1,000 birth s:70 29banks, public health care, human immunodeficiency
Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 29  virus (H IV) AIDS medicines, food kitchens, and edu-
Female youth illiteracy: 6%                                cational supplies for high-risk schools. Work also be-
2001 GNI per capita: $3,560
Number of personsaiving w3.19              l              gan on another social protection program-to provide
Number of persons living with HIV/AIDS: 1.9 million        iioesplinnst h           ieilydwt        eed
income supplements to the unemployed with depend-
Note: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female  ents, and to respond to the needs of a growing number
youth illiteracy are for 2000, other indicators are for 2001, from the World Devel-  of f   l   i
opment Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI) is now used  of famlies liviiig In poverty.
instead ofgross national product (GNP).                       With about 170 million of the region's 510 million
_____________ ____________ - ------ -   ---people living on  less than  $2  a day, of whom   70  million
- To01P02                     Total FY02                    live on less than $1 a day, the Bank's loans and ana-
Neva .ognmitments            Disbursements                 lytical work seek to improve the investment climate
IBRD$5&188.1 million         IBRD $3,505.1 million         while also supporting local efforts to empower people,
IDA.177 8 million            IDA $272.5 million            communities, and governments. Specifically, the
Bank's priorities in the region are education, strength-
t;w1 i >rO-g K  -fVkwcm@ lw Wmi"2      - -.       ening the financial sector, social protection, institu-
1t yINC C857 IBIlu             .-~f                tional reform and governance, empowerment and
inclusion of excluded groups, and environmental
sustainability.
In fiscal 2002 the Bank approved financing to stim-
-  -         -                                ulate and improve productivity in rural comiunLities
. r-,. t'               ,                  ....... ZR1. ,.- > ...by supporting small businesses, farming inputs, and
-  1 ~-  ;  - ~~ -}''~'J/3' A.  rs   n  ;  land management. Support was also provided to ex-
------I ,J  pand basic health and education services to low-
income communities, and to assist governments seek-
ing to maintain fiscal balances as they undertook policy
reforms and investments in infrastructure.
i4       .  ; SBUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Investment is essential to stimulating economic
6x .t? ir, -  t     growth. The Latin America and the Caribbean region
A. -V!  needs about $70 billion a year over the next five
K<                                             ;- -  = .  jri  \ -1 - . - ,,,! p years-equivalent to its total foreign direct investment
IZ-e- e   - -  .  |  1--  j  -  $/  in 2000-to build and upgrade water, sewerage, roads,
:X'- ," ,:.   '__ -', '-. i ,h;3  power, and transportation systems. These infrastruc-
ture needs are expanding in concert with the regions
|    rapid populationi growth, inicluding large niumbers of
JJ      -   "   - poor in the mushrooming cities, nlow home to 75 per-
cent of the region's people. The Bank is responding to
di-. '' -   ,' 'this demand with 82 infrastructure projects worth over
* .;  1  .E;  ,-,N,,, ;-, ,.-  <   $8 billion that are currently under way. Private sector
v-  a   - -t   9     -fiS<a--' "S           participation is also needed, within sound regulatory
World Bank support for construction of over I t,000 km of roads has  frameworks, to ensure that the poor have access to vital
helped reduce poverty in Peru's Sierra by ending the isolation of rural mu-  services at affordable prices. In Colombia the Bank
nicipalities and creating 4,700 jobs in road maintenance microenterprises.  provided $40 million to support reform of municipal
water utilities in the Caribbean coastal region in order
to enable the private sector investment needed to ex-
$100 million from ongoing social sector operations  tend water services to the poor. The strategy replicates
to support an emergency social program. This includ-  a series of successful projects started in 1995 in Carta-
ed vaccines, matcrnial and child health care, blood  gena, which have resulted in about 50 water companies
104     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



delivering services with high customer satisfaction in
several large municipalities across northern Colombia.     -   i -
Conscious that investor confidence is won by coun-
tries whose governments are efficient and free of cor-
ruption, the Bank is working in partnership with Chile,  r.-.'
Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Panama. These     ,             __
partnerships support the modernization of financial            -.4;
management practices and the development of online  _    v     ,
government procurement practices that reduce red
tape while strengthening impartiality and transparency.           \,        ____-
These efforts often complement Bank support for                                        lM y,
fiscal ref'orm and decentralization, as in Argentina,
Colombia, and Mexico, or judicial reform, as in        -     r  ,                     F
El Salvador and Guatemala. They also integrate the                    r         -
use of new knowledge and information technologies,        ^                . -;.
which are critical to increasing the global competitive-                -                        ''
ness of the region's economies.                         -      _     -   -   -             l
These Achuar people of Ecuador's Amazon participate in the Indigenous
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE                              andAfro-Ecuadorian People's Development Project. The Bank-supported
project channels resources to over 4, 000 communities to support land
The Bank is working with the nine states in Brazil's  tenure regularization, farming inputs, microcredit schemes, and construc-
northeast and in Minas Gerais to combat rural poverty  tion of schools and health posts.
with decentralized, community-driven approaches.
For example, during 2002 the Bank approved a project
in the state of Sergipe to provide matching grants for  community councils in the Pacific coastal Choc6
rural community groups. The grants will help finance  region gained title to almost 2.4 million hectares of
about 1,000 small-scale projects to create jobs and  rainforest on which they depend for hunting, fishing,
improve the health and well-being of some 52,000    and traditional farming. The Bank has supported simi-
families. This approach to social investment not only  lar land-titling initiatives in 10 countries, including
delivers water, health care, and agricultural extension  Bolivia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua,
services to poor families but also builds social capital  and Panama.
and ensures that the communities themselves select     A vital element in this grassroots, commullity-
and implement the projects. Similar community devel-  oriented approach is the Bank's effort to engage civil
opment projects are under way in Colombia, Ecuador,  society in developing its lending and knowledge prod-
Honduras, Nicaragua, and Paraguay, and will be       ucts, especially in the rural, environmental, health,
extended to the Amazon region.                      education, and social protection sectors, but increas-
Empowering poor people also includes initiatives  ingly in projects in judicial reform and infrastructure
to reach out to the region's indigenous people, about  as well. Under the aegis of a new framework (see
80 percent of whom live in extreme poverty, as well as  www.worldbank.orgllaccs), the Latin America and the
to communities largely composed of Afro-descendants.  Caribbean region is also beginning to engage civil soci-
In Brazil, Ecuador, and Peru, the Bank is supporting  ety around the Bank's adjustment and programmatic
projects tailored to assist indigenous communities to  lending in order to provide information on Bank proj-
regularize communal land rights, to promote the use  ects to communities so that they can assess their im-
of indigenous knowledge for more environmentally    pact and implementation. In Peru, for example, the
sustainable land management practices, and to build  Bank is backing a government-led effort to provide in-
project management capacity.                        formation on social programs, expenditures, and statis-
Recognition of legal title is an essential condition  tics to citizens in order to involve them in planning
for poor farmers of all ethnic origins to improve   services and budgets at the local and national level, and
their economic status. The Bank has supported an    to strengthen their capacity to monitor and evaluate
effort in Colombia whereby 58 Afro-Colombian         public services (see box 5.6).
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  105



BOX 5.6 RESOURCE EXPORTS OFFER PATH TO KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY JOBS
Natural resources are an asset for countries in Latin  Citing experiences in countries including Australia,
America and the Caribbean seeking to create high-   Canada, Finland, and some Latin American countries,
quality jobs in the knowledge economy, according to a  the report argues that it is not so much what is pro-
World Bank study. Despite recent stagnation of prices  duced, but how it is produced. The critical complemen-
for many primary commodities and some disquieting  tary ingredients are high levels of human capital and
trends in job quality and unemployment in the region,  knowledge networks that generate innovation and
From Natural Resources to the Knowledge Economy-    adoption of foreign technologies. The region's coun-
Trade and Job Quality presents evidence that, "rich  tries, it recommends, should pursue trade openness, de-
endowments of natural resources, combined with      velop human capital and innovation networks, and
aggressive pursuit and adoption of more productive  "not turn their backs on their natural wealth."
technologies, are a proven growth recipe."
Figure 5.9 Latin America and the Caribbean: IBRD    Figure 5.10 Latin America and the Caribbean: IBRD
and IDA Lending by Theme. Fiscal 2002                and IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002
Share of total of $4.4 billion                       Share of total of $4.4 billion
Environmental & Natural                   Water, Sanitation &   Agriculture, Fishing &
Resource Management 4%                    Flood Protection 1%    Forestry 2%
Rural Development 4%                              Tasotto     1
Economic Management 9%     Transportation 11%               Law & Justice &
Urban Development                                                                      P bLa c
6%/     U |         \                     Energy &                            inistrationi
Mining 10%                        Administration
Human /     \ ), ~'<           \ Public Sector  Industry &
Development =                         Governance   Trade 1%
13%0                   \       27%                   \ 
Social\                /                        Health &,     \><      v     >    Information &
Development,                                        Other Social    /                   Communication
Gender & \   i     /        \/                  Services 15%  \1%
Inclusion 6%                       ule of Law                                     ducation 13%
Social Protection &              <1                           Finance 17%
Risk Management 7%         Financial & Private
Tracdle &   Sector Development 22%
Integration 2%
106     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Table 5.5 World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Latin America and the Caribbean, by Theme and Sector,
Fiscal 1993-2002
(millions of dollars)
1993-97   1998-99
(annual   (annual
average)  average)    2000      2001       2002
THEME
Economic Management                                 437.3     694.0     587.6     570.1     391.0 ~
Public Sector Governance                            505.2     825.2     519.9    1,099.7  '1, 182.81
Rule of Law                                          70.0      94.1     111.7     202.2      15.5
Financial and Private Sector Development          1,295.4    1,626.9   1,056.1    985.4     965.41
Trade and Integration                               121.7     144.6     160.7     218.3     , 3.9
Social Protection and Risk Management               415.2    1,002.4    901.2     530.0     310o.41,
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion           253.4     359.1     141.5     371.7     248.91
Human Development                                   565.9     786.9     157.7     471.2     560.4
Urban Development                      480.3     576.9      53.3     202.0     251.91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~803  7.9533 20.
Rural Development                                   462.6     613.3     103.0     580.8     168.3
Environmental and Natural Resource Management       588.1     164.8     270.8      68.8     187.4I
Theme Total                                       5,195.2    6,888.3   4,063.5   5,300.1   4,365.8j
SECTOR
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry                  285.3     326.4     104.1      72.3      85 .0~
Law and Justice and Public Administration         1,101.3   2,208.9    1,787.8   1,722.9  1,299.5
Information and Communication                        20.6      17.2      28.7      97.8       65
Education                                           601.4     659.8      62.8     529.1  ~560.4,1
Finance                                             708.2    1,089.5   1,195.1    950.5  i734:1
Health and Other Social Services                    514.6    1,150.5    360.2     904.7  j660 5~:
Industry and Trade                                  154.9     204.2     165.3      38.3      51 4.'
Energy and Mining                                   254.5      98.1      79.3     107.6     445.6 I
Transportation                                      988.1     875.6       11.6    650.3     463.11
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection             566.3     258.0     268.7     226.6      49.8-
Sector Total                                      5,195.2    6,888.3   4,063.5   5,300.1  A4,365.8
Of which IBRD                                   4,897.2    6,406.4   3,898.1   4,806.7  4,188.11-~
Of which IDA                                      297.9     481.9     165.4     493.4     17~7.8.,
Nore: Lending is summarizedi in the I1I main theme categories and 1 0 main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral coding systemn, which in-
cludes 68 themes and 57 sectors. See table 2.2, page 30. Numbers mnay not add to totals because of rounding. in fiscal 2002 $1 5 million in new BIRD
commitments were approved for a project in Jamaica under the Multicountry HIflWAIDS Prevention and Control Project for the Caribbean ($155 million
was earmarked in fiscal 2001).
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  107



-r A- Z"
5~~~~~~~ -                                         ai!;- 
A l
|o r
:1  0
M   id dle    East      a nd                    private sector developmient becominiig a primie
-.  ki or4 h  A~~~~~~~~~~ * ~souirce of job creation, the Bank has wvorked
*  ~ ~  ~~ N     rt      Africa                             extensively to improve the inivestm-enit climiate
in the regioni. Projects anid advisory services to
* *'       ~~The Mliddle East anid Northi Africa regioni Nvas  strengtheni finiaicial sectors in Algeria and the
*  * .0~~~~~~~~~~~~
stronlgly impacted by the aftermiath of evenits of  Republic of Yemen; trade anid competitivenecss in
MSeptembr 11 ith sharp declines in exports to   Tunisia; private sector developmlienot in Algeria;
NEurope, the Middle East and North Africa's main  and information technology in the West Bank and
otrading partner. In addition, 0cotinUed violence in  Gaza, Tuvisia, and the Republic of Yemen are good
the Middle East nas worsened ifvestors' periception  exaples. The weight of the public sector and
- . of risks anld is slowing downi already limiited foreigni  governanice issues also conStituItes a serious imped-
direct inlvestm-enit in the regioni. In 2001 economiic  imienit to more rapid growthi. Work in fiscal 2002
growth had slowed to 3.1t percent (down from    has focused of improvieg public expenditure
S42 percent the previous year), hith sharp decliines  efficiency and puiblic sector managemenit in Algeria,
aumoig oil' exporters (fromn 3.6 percet to 2.5 per-  Djibouti, Jordan, atnd Morocco, and decentralization
cent), and i ore Imoderate declines amioeng the  in Algeria, Jordan, Tisia, ad the Republic of
diversified exporters (0.5 percentage poinits).  Yemieni.
IThe lack of hiigher anid suistainecd growth
throughout the Middle East ahnd North Africa hias
iomade the region's greatest challenge-finding suffi-
dciret employmenit opportuinities for the reapidly  BOX 5.7 WEST BANK AND GAZA-SUPPORT IN
*      *~~~,  growing labor force-substanitially mor-e difficuLlt.  A CONFLICT-AFFECrED AREA
Althouglh onlye 2.3 percenct of the popuilaftioni is liv-
4i.g on less than $1 a day, poverty remains a prine  In the West Bank and Gaza the Emergency Ser-
congicerne, with some 30 perctt Of the Population  vices Support Project addresses the deterioration
living on less than $2 a day.                      of education, health, and social welfare services
in the face of increasing inability of central insti-
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE                              tutions to meet nonsalary operating costs. The
project targets key social service delivery agen-
The Banik's overarching objectives in the rgion    cies and municipalities, enabling them to help
are to streigthenl  the 2 omentti for building a cli-  the segments of the population hardest hit by
igate for ivestaent, job creationr, and sustainable  the ongoing conflict. The recently completed
growth; anid to eomepower the poor to become assets  Emergency Response Program addressed rising
in the developmeniit process. During fiscal 2002 the  unemployment and poverty by offering work
T Bank has worked to better identify the key sources  opportunities to the most needy through
and impedimilenits to growth, particularlN in Algeria,  community-based, labor-intensive microprojects.
the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Islamic Republic of  Both programs leveraged considerable donor
Iran, Jordan, Lebanoni, the Syrian Arab Republic,  funds.
and in the West Bank and Gaza (see box 5.7). With
The World Bank Annual Report 2002
U



LiVA rSr sI rTr      iErM1              7            4
Total population: 0.3 billion
Population growth: 2%
Poverty assessments for Djibouti, Egypt, the Islamic  Life expectancy at birth: 68 years
Republic of Iran, and the Republic of Yemen, and social  Infanlt mortality per 1,000 births: 43
protection analyses for Lebanon, Morocco, and the re-  2001 GNI per capita: $2,000
gion as a whole, have conitribLuted to a better under-  20:GIprcpt:$,0
gtaionias af whole,t have  scntibutedcion a ssbete  Under-  Number of persons living with HIV/AIDS: 0.5 million
standinlg of poverty and social exclusion Issues. Under
process-oriented economic anid sector work, engage-   Note: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate per 1,000 births, and female
youth illiteracy are for 2000, other indicators are for 2001, from the World Devel-
ment with civil society actors in Morocco is giving over  opment Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI) is now used
200 civil society organizations a voice in identifying  instead ofgross national product (GNP).'
and addressing the challenges they face in participating
in the development process. Ongoing work to strength-  V    WM                     Total FY02
en education and health systems in Djibouti, Egypt, the  mB                        Disbursements
Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco,   0(3    WA    OU@e           IBRD $514.6 million
the Republic of Yemen, and the regioi as a whole also  Om lM  U W ;a.              IDA $117.0 million
includes key elements to protect the poor. Finally, the
region has launclhed a series of studies to analyze and  Portfolio of projects under implementation as of
advise on the various aspects of regional and global  June 30, 2002: $5.4 billion
integrationi.-
To achieve its objectives in the region, the Middle
East and North Africa region is intensifyinig its
partnership-building, knowledge-sharing, and out-                                                   A     -
reach efforts at the strategy and implementation levels.
At the regional level there is coordination with the        ;__________
African Development Bank and the Islamic Develop-   >                                       X
ment Bank. The Luxembourg Process ensures semi-
annual coordination mneetinigs among the European                                            -i.
Union, the European Investmiient Bank, the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund, and the Middle East and North       -          -    -
Africa. In the West Bank and Gaza, where donor part-  Pr
nership is critical, 13 bilateral and multilateral agencies
collaborated with the Bank and Palestinian technical
specialists to prepare a comprehensive Emergency
Assessment; the Bank-administered Palestinian Eco-
nomic Assistanice and Cooperation Expansion Facility
has leveraged $26 million from five donors for an
emergency employment program. At the thematic lev-  A group of Yemeni women in a focus group meeting in a rural area in
the Republic of Yemen with a Social Fund member during a subproject
el, partnerships such as the Mediterranean Environ-  identification.
menital Technical Assistance Program, the Regional
Water Initiative, and Cultural Heritage are leveraging  outcomes. The new instruLmlent will entail activities
the Bank's work on sustainable development (see box  such as diagnostic pieces, traininlg, and peer learninig. It
5.8). The jointly funded European Union-World Bank  responds to the countries' need for vehicles other than
Program on Private Participation in Mediterranean In-  lendinig to deliver sustained engagemiienit by the Bank
frastructure, based in Brussels, helps promote key pri-  on issues facing them. The Global Developmenit Learn-
vate sector and infrastructure reforms in client coun-  ing Network has now expanded from two distance-
tries. Public sector management is fostered through the  learning centers in Ammaln, Jordan, and Cairo, Egypt,
MaghrebI Public Procurement Modernization Initiative  to partners in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. \WVork is ongo-
(see www.worldbank.org/mena).                      ing to establish new partnerships in Bahrain, the Islam-
In its knowledge-sharing activities the Middle East  ic Republic of Iran, Omani, the United Arab Emirates.
and North Africa region is piloting a nonlendinig, pro-  and the Republic of Yemen. Work is also ongoinig on
grammatic instrumenit to support the region's coun-  the Development Gateway for sites in Jordan, Morocco,
tries on the basis of mutually agreed-on medium-term  and the West Bank and Gaza.
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  109



BOX 5.8 ENVIRONMENT PARTNERSHIP AND              annual Technical Cooperation Program work as wvel.
LEARNING-A TALE OF THE COMMONS                   Here, the Bank is advising on the investment climate,
employment generation, private sector participation,
Under the Regional Initiative for Dryland Manage-  and infrastructure sector reform, among others.
ment, the Bank supports the partners-Egypt,
Israel, Jordan,.the Palestinian Authority, and   BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Tunisia-in developing technical cooperation and
sharing of know-how on sustainable management    Strengthening the climate for investment, jobs, and
of natural resources in order to increase productiv-  sustainable growth remains a major focus. Most coun-
ity and improve living standards in marginal areas.  tries in the Middle East and North Africa have made
In the Gabes Governorate in Tunisia, the Initiative  substantial progress in implementing macroeconomic
encourages young farmers to settle in the Dissa  policies to support the investment climate. But signifi-
perimeter and start irrigated farming using the  cant challenges remain on issues such as reducing ex-
treated wastewater of the Gabes plant, thereby   cessive regulation and bureaucratic red tape; improving
creating jobs and, at the same time, conserving the  the tax, customs, and investor regimes; ensuring the
natural resource base. In Jordan (Wadi Mujib area),  efficient functioning of financial and labor markets;
new water harvest structures have weathered a se-  and widening access to high-quality and affordable
vere three-year drought, and plans are under way  infrastructure, particularly for small and medium en-
to scale up this technology to other areas. Earthen  terprises (SMEs).
banks used for water harvesting have been re-       In Morocco an Investment Climate Assessment
inforced by planting cactus-a technology intro-  highlighted measures to encourage the growth and en-
duced from Tunisia. The cactus, in turn, is harvested  try of new firms. In Tunisia a joint Bank-government
by farmers as feed for their livestock and as a  program, Fonds d'Acces aux Marches d'Exportation
source of income. In Egypt, in the northeast Wadi  (FAMEX), is providing assistance to private compa-
Um Ashtan catchment, an intensive seed collection  nies in areas such as export marketing. In 2001 alone
program for adapted forage and feed species con-  the program attracted more than 100 new export firms.
ducted with local Bedouins was combined with     To support SME access to markets and information,
maintenance of simple water-harvesting techniques  the Bank recently launched an SME Exchange Program
to literally transform the area from a bare, sterile  in Algeria (in addition to Morocco and Tunisia), link-
zone receiving only an annual average of 150 mil-  ing chambers of commerce from both shores of the
limeters of rainfall to a productive one.        Mediterranean. Jordan currently is host to the most
successful privatization program in the region, generat-
ing revenues so far of nearly 12 percent of gross do-
mestic product (GDP), creating more than 6,000 jobs,
The above-mentioned objectives are also being met  and providing benefits to consumers in the form of de-
through a demand-driven process under the region's  clining telecommunications rates, shorter waits for
Reimbursable Technical Assistance Program. These  telephone lines, and, in the transportation sector, high-
nonlending services, part of a long-standing technical  er numbers of available buses leading to higher levels
assistance partnership with countries in the region not  of ridership. This is a partnership under which the
eligible for World Bank lending, have included work on  World Bank Group manages a substantial trust fund
diversification, human resource development, private  for the U.S. Agency for International Development that
sector development, and public sector reform, among  supports the Jordan Privatization Program.
others. Technical assistance has taken the form of tech-
nical and policy advice, capacity building, project  EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
design and implementation, and consensus building.
While in most cases this work has been done on an  During fiscal 2002 numerous World Bank-supported
ad hoc basis, there has been a shift toward a compre-  initiatives have contributed to the empowerment of
hensive and country-owned technical assistance frame-  poor and vulnerable people. Most prominent among
work. Saudi Arabia has a long-standing fixed program  these are the Social Fund Programs. In Algeria, in the
with the Bank, and Kuwait has just initiated its fixed  worst of the bidonvilles (shantytowns in high-risk secu-
110     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



_ ^  1 1  t-  2    paigns, combined with support for more than 22,000
disadvantaged childrcn. NGOs, community leaders (in-
cluding women), and religious leaders are playing a key
-  ;1 ~>role in convincing parents to send their children, and
t especially their daughters, to school. The recent Health
> ~                                             .     a      L6 e 9 | Support Project to the Republic of Yemen illustrates
the Bank's multipronged approach to health sector is-
--I /^$  1 7 sues in the region. The project will strengthen health
--_4N_    j -     services delivery by providing a package of integrated
maternal and child health services in eight districts
serving close to 1.5 million Yemeni; it will enhance the
public health program to combat endemic diseases
-<          ' -' such as malaria; and it will improve health system
- ~  water h,rvest,ng    I                   management for more effective allocation anid efficient
t                            ,                            - ; --! -use of limited resources.
Traditional water harvesting in the Republic of Yemen through community
contracting.                                     GLOBAL PRIORITIES
Communicable Diseases
In Egypt a Bank project has supported the expansion
rity zones where no social services were provided),  of the National Schistosomiasis Control Program
a program to develop 28 social services centers has  (NSCP) and provided technical assistance to strength-
brought the communities a large array of services,  en capacity in scientific research and public health
including psychological, psychiatric, and physical reha-  programming. Today the NSCP covers the entire rural
bilitation for victims of terrorism; outreach to school  population of Egypt, about 35 million. In Morocco the
dropouts; parent health and education awareness  Bank, under the Basic Health Project, has supported
programs; social rights information; immunizations;  the Tuberculosis (TB) Control and Expanded Immu-
youth sports; and cultural programs.             nization Programs leading to increased capacity and
In the Republic of Yemen and in Egypt, social funds  decentralizationi. For TB, both case detection and ther-
are creating a culture of community participation by  apeutic rates have reached 90 percent, with the treat-
establishing effective partnerships and building capac-  ment failure rate at less than I percent. Coverage rates
ity amonig local communiities, governmenit ministries,  for DPT3 (the final dose of diphtheria, pertussis, and
and nongovernmienital organizations (NGOs). Empow-  tetanus immllunizationi) and measles vaccinies in chil-
erment is embodied in community structures such as  dren less than 1 year old are 92 percent and 90 percent,
parent councils, health communities, and water-user  respectively, with nonsignificant differentials between
associations. Subprojects encompass education and  urban and rural areas. Under the same project the
health services, innovative water-harvesting projects,  Bank supported the elaboration of Morocco's national
environlmiiental activities, microfinance, employment  human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune de-
creation, and cultural heritage activities having a direct  ficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) action plan, which was
impact on tourism, with direct income going to com-  validated by the government during a national work-
munLities. In the Republic of Yemen 4.6 million people  shop in the fall of 2001.
have benefited directly, and about I million indirectly,  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa
from these activities. In Egypt, increasing girls' en-  devote over 5 percent of their GDP to their health
rollment in basic education is a major goal of Bank-  systems. Health outcomes, however, are often disap-
supported education and social fund programs. Under  pointing because health systems face serious organiza-
the Egypt Education Enhancement Project (EEP), new  tional, quality, and efficiency problems. The Bank is
schools were built in isolated, deprived communities,  assisting the countries through projects and advisory
increasing enrollmiienit and reducing overcrowding. The  services focusing on broader systemic reforms in
EEP also raised parental demand for girl's education  Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Morocco,
through more than 200 community awareness cam-   and Tunisia.
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives



Figure 5.11 Middle East and North Africa: IBRD and  Figure 5.12 Middle East and North Africa: IBRD and
IDA Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002                  IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002
Share of total of $0.6 billion                      Share of total of $0.6 billion
Environmental & Natural                        Agriculture, Fishing & Forestry 1%
Resource Management 4%                                            Law & Justice &
Rural Development 3%  Economic Management 1%    Water, Sanitation &        Public Administration 13%
Urban Development                  Public Sector   Flood Protection 13%
10%/     -X | |      \Governance 17%                                         Information &
Communication
Human           -                ~~~~~~~~~~~Transportation  '.
Human                                                                               3 %X \  3/ .;\ 
Development                                               13 i
11%       4              >     Rule of Law             <- 
11%~~~~~~9
SocialEnergy &                                                               Education 7%
Social  _     _1                 ~~~~~~~~~Mining <1% \Y.
Development,                                       M      <1%
Gender &                     w                      i Ei_ _¢ IndustryS
Inclusion 2%  | ll 11 -  -     wF                    Trade 13%
Social Protection &                                       Health & Other   L    Finance 20%
Risk Management 2%          Financial & Private           Social Services 8%
Trade & Integration 4%  Sector Development 37%
Trade and Integration                               port Duty Free Shops, and the Jordan Flight Catering
Recognizinig the slow pace of global integration in  Company, bringing in foreign investmenit and resulting
Middle East and North Africa countries, the Bank ac-  in clear benefits to customers. In Morocco the Bank's
tively supports global integration through lending and  Policy Reform Loan initiated a major customs reform
nonlenidinig services. Benefits of these programs are  under its public sector reform component. This has
now observable in the field in Jordan, Morocco, and  reduced the average wait for customs clearance from
Tunisia as customs procedures have become simpler.  two days to less than one day.
Under an Economiiic Competitiveness Adjustment
Loan, Tunisiani exporters have obtained reimburse-  International Financial Architecture
ments for tax credits in 30 days instead of up to six  In fiscal 2002, Bank efforts to enhance the interna-
monlths. Jordanian authorities opened the Aqaba Spe-  tional financial infrastructure included Financial Sector
cial Economic Zone in May 2001, providing a "first  Assessment Papers, under way in Morocco and com-
world business environmlent" for enterprises, mainly  pleted in Tunisia; the Country Financial Accountability
export-oriented enterprises, to which the Bank con-  Assessment in Egypt; and accounting and auditing
tributed resources under an Economic Restructuring  Reports on1 the Observance of Standards and Codes
and Development Loan. Assisted in part by Bank tech-  (ROSC), Linder way in Egypt and Morocco. In addi-
nical expertise, Jordan has accelerated its privatization  tion, a ROSC on corporate governance was completed
programs since January 2000 with Jordan Telecom, Air-  in Morocco.
112     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Table 5.6 World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Middle East and North Africa, by Theme and Sector,
Fiscal 1993-2002
(millions of dollars)
1993-97   1998-99
(annual   (annual
average)  average)    2000     2001       2002
THEME                                                                                       :
Economic Management                                 50.5       5.2       0.0     11.9       5 0
Public Sector Governance                           79.5       89.8     130.6    102.6  |   93.3 A
Rule of Law                                         16.1      59.5       9.3     56.5      49.1i
Financial and Private Sector Development          350.4      361.1     61.8      78.8     204.1
Trade and Integration                               28.3      38.8       3.0      3.4  [   24.8
Social Protection and Risk Management              68.3       87.4     100.0      5.6      1:1.01
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion          69.0       64.5      71.6     52.5      13.4.
Human Development                                  94.0      179.0     187.9     35.7      61.9
Urban Development                                 140.8      125.9     143.5     46.7      55;8
Rural Development                                 214.3      175.3     89.2      86.4      14.51
Environmental and Natural Resource Management     204.1       94.2     123.3     27.5      21 7il
Theme Total                                      1,305.2   1,280.8     920.0    507.5     554.51
SECTOR                                                                                       .
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry                234.8      147.9     120.6     46.5      : 2.9..
Law and Justice and Public Administration         127.4      236.0     108.9    161.5      74.7
Information and Communication                       11.0      33.8       1.3     59.2    .69.9 |
Education                                          97.2       94.2     197.1     72.3      38.06
Finance                                           161.8      190.8       5.3      0.0     1105
Health and Other Social Services                   98.2      159.8     158.9     39.3      41.7
Industry and Trade                                 170.9     168.6     47.9      27.0      7.137'j
Energy and Mining                                  82.2       56.8      0.0       0.0      .1.3.1
Transportation                                     146.5      81.7      59.6     82.8  V   70.9 j
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection            175.3     110.9     220.5     19.0      73.1
Sector Total                                     1,305.2   1,280.8    920.0     507.5     554.5-|
Of which IBRD                                  1,155.7     955.5     760.3    355.2  1 451.8
Of which IDA                                     149.5     325.3     159.8    152.3  {  102.7'1
Note. Lending is summarized in the 1 1 main theme categories and 10 main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral coding system, which in-
cludes 68 themes and 57 sectors. See table 2.2, page 30. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.
Chapter 5 Regional Perspectives  113






, r       L        --=-        L.                                      Chapter 6
L
Tables                                                        About the World Bank
TABLE 6.1 Country Eligibility for Borrowing
from the World Bank                            131           Organizational Information
TABLE 6.2 World Bank Commitments,                             Governors and Alternates                116
Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Africa,                 - Executive Directors and Alternates'
Fiscal 1997-2002                               133            and Their Voting Power                120
TABLE 6.3 World Bank  Dmmitments,                             Officers                                122
Disbursements, and Net Transfers in                          Office Locations,                   ;   123
East Asia and Pacific, Fiscal 1997-2002        133
TABLE 6.4 World Bank Commitments,
Disbursements, and Net Transfers in
South Asia, Fiscal 1997-2002                   134           .
TABLE 6.5 World Bank Commitments,
Disbursements, and Net Transfers in
Europe and Central Asia, Fiscal 1997-2002      134
TABLE 6.6 World Bank Commitments,
Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Latin
America and the Caribbean, Fiscal 1997-2002    135
TABLE 6.7 World Bank Commitments,
Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Middle
East and North Africa, Fiscal 1997-2002        135
TABLE 6.8 Summaries of Operations Approved
during Fiscal 2002, Africa                     136
TABLE 6.9 Summaries of Operations Approved
during Fiscal 2002, East Asia and Pacific      144
TABLE 6.10 Summaries of Operations Approved
during Fiscal 2002, South Asia                 148
TABLE 6.11 Summaries of Operations Approved
during Fiscal 2002, Europe and Central Asia    151
TABLE 6.12 Summaries of Operations Approved
during Fiscal 2002, Latin America and the
Caribbean                                      157
TABLE 6.13 Summaries of Operations Approved
during Fiscal 2002, Middle East and North Africa  164
TABLE 6.14 World Bank Adjustment Operations,
Fiscal 2002                                    166



Organizational Information
Governors and Alternates
June 30, 2002
Ike-r'-            Go%ernor                           Alternate
Afghanistan                    Hedayat Amin-Arsala               (vacant)
Albania                        Kastriot Islami                    Fatos Ibrahimi
Algeria                        Mohamed Terbeche                   Omar Bougara
Angola                         Ana Dias Lourenco                 Job Graca
Antigua and Barbuda +          Lester B. Bird                     Asot A. Michael
Argentina                      Roberto Lavagna                    Mario Blejer
Armenia                        Vahram Nercissiantz                Karen Chshmarityan
Australia                      Peter Costello                     Chris Gallus
Austria                        Karl-Heinz Grasser                 Thomas Wieser
Azerbaijan                     Elman Siradjogly Rustamov          Jahangir Fevzi Hajiyev
Bahamas, The +                 William C. Allen                   Ruth R. Millar
Bahrain +                      Abdulla Hassan Saif               Zakaria Ahmed Hejres
Banigladesh                    M. Saifur Rahman                  Anisul Huq Chowdhury
Barbados                       Reginald Farley                    GrantleyW. Smith
Belarus +                      Andrei V. Kobyakov                 Vladimir N. Shimov
Belgium                        Didier Reynders                   Guy Quaden
Belize                         Ralph Fonseca                      Sydney Campbell
Benin                          Bruno Amoussou                     Lazare Sehoueto
Bhutan                         Yeshey Zimiba                      (vacant)
Bolivia                       Jacques Trigo Loubiere              Bernardo Requena Blanco
Bosnia and Herzegovina         Azra Hadziahmetovic                Mladen Ivanic
Botswvana                      Baledzi Gaolathe                   Serwalo S.G. Tumelo
Brazil                         Pedro Sampaio Malan               Arminio Fraga Neto
Brunei Darussalam +            Haji Hassanal 13olkiah             Yakub Abu Bakar
Bulgaria +                     Milen Veltchev                     Martin Mihaylov Zaimov
Burkina Faso                  Jean Baptiste Compaore              Etienne Yamneogo
Burundi                        Edouard Kadigiri                   Dieudonne Nintunze
Cambodia                       Keat Chhon                         Ouk Rabun
Cameroon                       Martin Okouda                      Daniel Njankouo Lamere
Canada                         John Manley                        Leonard M. Good
Cape Verde                     Carlos Augusto Duarte Burgo        (vacant)
Central African Republic       Alexis Ngomba                      Clemenit Eregani
Chad                           Mahamat Ali Hassan                 Maina Touka Sahanaye
Chile                          Nicolas Eyzaguirre                 Mario Marcel
China                          Xiang Huaicheng                    Jin Liqun
Colombia                       Juan Manuel Santos Calderon        Juan Carlos Echeverry
Comoros                        Djaffar Mmadi                      Moindjie Saadi
Congo, Democratic Republic of  Matungulu Mbuyamu Ilankir         Jean-Claude Masangu Mulongo
Congo, Republic of             Mathias Dzon                       Clement Mierassa
Costa Rica                    Jorge WValter Bolanos Rojas         Eduardo Lizano Fait
C6te d'lvoire                  Affi N'Guessan                     Bouabre Bohoun
Croatia                        Mato Crkvenac                      Josip Kulisic
Cyprus                         Takis Klerides                     Andreas Tryfonides
Czech Republic                Jiri Rusnok                         Oldrich Dedek
Denmark                        Per Stig Moller                    Carsten Staur
Djibouti                       Yacin Elmi Bouh                    Nouh Omnar Miguil
Dominica                       Swinburne Lestrade                 Ambrose M. J. Sylvester
Dominican Republic             Francisco M. Guerrero Prats-R.     Luis Manuel Piantini
Ecuador                        Carlos Julio Emanuel              Julio Ponce Arteta
Egypt, Arab Republic of        Medhat Hassaneiii                  Faiza Abulnaga
116     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



-~~~~ ~6 over.noUr .-:.                        Aiene
El Salvador                    Juan Jose Daboub                   Rafael Barraza
Equatorial Guinea              Fortunato Ofa Mbo                  Melchor Esono Edjo
Eritrea                        Berhane Abrehe                     Kibrom Dafla
Estonia +                      Harri Ounapuu                      Renaldo Mandimiets
Ethiopia                       Sufian Ahmed                       Mekonnen Manyazewal
Fiji                           Jone Yavala Kubuabola              Solomone S. Kotobalavu
Finland                        Sauli Niinisto                     Satu Hlassi
France                         Francis Mer                        Jean-Pierre Jouyet
Gabon                          Casimir Oye-Mba                    Claude Ayo Iguendha
Gambia, The                    Famnara L. Jatta                   Dodou B. Jagne
Georgia                        Mirian Gogiashvili                 Giorgi Gachechiladze
Germany                        Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul          Caio K. Koch-Weser
Ghana                          Yaw Osafo-Maafo                    Grace Coleman
Greece                         Nikolaos Christodoulakis            Vasilis Rapanos
Grenada                        Anthony Boatswain                  Swinburne Lestrade
Guatemala                      Eduardo Humberto Weymann Fuentes Lizardo Arturo Sosa Lopez
Guinea                         Cheick Ahmadou Camara              Cellou Dalein Diallo
Guinea-Bissau                  Rui Duarte Barros                  Verissimo Paulino Nancassa
Guyana                         Bharrat Jagdeo                     Saisnarine Kowlessar
Haiti                          Faubert Gustave                    Venel Joseph
Honduras                       Arturo Alvarado                    Maria Elena Mondragon de Villar
Hungary                        Csaba Laszlo                       Peter Adamecz
Iceland                        Halldor Asgrimsson                 Geir Hilmar Haarde
India                          Yashwant Sinha                     Chander Mohan Vasudev
Indonesia                      Boediono                           Achjar lljas
Iran, Islamic Republic of      Thahmaseb Mazaheri-Khorzani        Mohammad Khazaee-Torshizi
Iraq                           Issam Rashid Hwaish                Hashim Ali Obaid
Ireland                        Charlie McCreevy                   Tom Considine
Israel                         David Klein                        Ohad Marani
Italy                          Antonio Fazio                      Lorenzo Bini Smaghi
Jamaica +                      Omar Lloyd Davies                  Wesley George Hughes
Japan                          Masajuro Shiokawa                  Masaru Hayami
Jordan                         Bassem I. Awadallah                Hala Bsaiso Lattouf
Kazakhstani                    Alexander Sergeyevich Pavlov       Mazhit T. Yessenbayev
Kenya                          Christopher Mogere Obure           Mwaghazi W. Mwachofi
Kiribati                       Beniamina Tinga                    Tebwe letaake
Korea, Republic of             Yun-Churl Jeon                     Seung Park
Kuwait                         Yousef Hamad Al-Ebraheem           Bader Meshari Al-Humaidhi
Kyrgyz Republic                Temirbek Akmataliev                Kubat Abduldaevich Kanimetov
Lao People's Democratic Republic Soukanh Mahalath                 Phouphet Khamphounvong
Latvia                         Roberts Zile                       Aigars Kalvitis
Lebanon                        Fuad A.B. Siniora                  Basil R. Fuleihan
Lesotho                        Mohlabi Kenneth Tsekoa             T. J. Ramotsoari
Liberia                        Amelia A. Ward                     M. Nathaniel Barnes
Libya                          Alojeli Abdel Salam Breeni         Ali Ramadan Shnebsh
Lithuania +                    Dalia Grybauskaite                 Arvydas Kregzde
Luxembourg                     Luc Frieden                        Jean Guill
Macedonia, former Yugoslav
Republic of                   Nikola Gruevski                    Vanco Kargov
Madagascar                     Pierrot J. Rajaonarivelo            Simon Constant Horace
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank  117



Governors and Alternates (continued)
[Member                         Governor                           Alternate
Malawi                         Friday Jumbe                      Zaki Chalira
Malaysia                       Mahathir Mohamad                  Samsudini Hitam
Maldives                       Fathulla jamecl                   Adam Maniku
Mali                           Ousnmanie Issoufi Maiga           Toure Alimata lraore
Malta +                        John Dalli                        Joseph Scicluna
Marshall Islands               Michael Konelios                  Smith Michael
Mauritania                     Mohamed Ould Nainy                Abdallah Ould Hormtallah
Mauritius                      Khushhal Chanid Khushiram         Philippe Ong Seng
Mexico                         Francisco Gil Diaz                Agustin Carstens
Micronesia, Federated States of  John Ehsa                       Sebastian L. Anefal
Moldova                        Zinaida Grecianii                 Dumitru Ursu
Mongolia                       Chultem Ulaan                     Ochirbat Chuluunibat
Morocco                        Fathallah Oualalou                Ahmed Lahlirni
Mozambiquc                     Adriano Afonso Maleiane           Manuel Chang
Mvanmar                        Khin Maung Thein                  Soe liii
Namibia +                      Saara Kuugongelwa                 Usutuaije Maarnberua
Nepal                          Ram Sharan Mahat                  Biimal P. Koirala
Netherlands                    Gerrit ZalIm                      Eveli ne Herflkeiis
New Zealand                    Michael Cullen                    Alan Bollard
Nicaragua                      Eduardo Montealegre Rivas         Mario Alonso Icabalceta
Niger                          Ali Badjo Gamatie                 Maliki Barhouni
Nigeria                        Adamu Ciroma                      Thelma Amata Iremiren
Norwvav                        Hilde Frafjord Johinsoni          Olav Kjorven
Oman                           Ahmed Macki                       Mohamimled bin Nasser Al-Khasibi
Pakistan                       Shaukat Aziz                      Nawid Ahsan
Palau                          Casmir Remeingesau                Lawrence Alan Goddard
Panama                         Norberto Delgado Durani           Dominigo Latorraca
Papua New Guinea               Mekere Morauta                    Koiari Tarata
Paraguay                       James Spalding                    Jose Ernesto Buttner
Peru                           Pedro Pablo Kuczynski             Richard Webb
Philippines                    lose Isidro N. Camaclio           Rafael B. Buenavenitura
Poland                         Leszek Balcerowicz                Andrzej S. Bratkowski
Portugal                       Manuela Ferreira Leite            Miguel Frasquilho
Qatar +                        Yousef Hussain Kamal              Abdullah Bin Khalid Al-Attiyah
Romania +                      Mihai Nicolae ranasescu           Emil Iota Ghizari
Russian Federation             Viktor Khristenko                 German 0. Gref
Rwanda                         Donald Kaberuka                   Jean Marie Karekezi
St. Kitts and Nevis            Denzil Douglas                    Wendell Everton Lawrcice
St. Lucia                      Kenny D. Anthoniy                 Bernard La Corbiniere
St. Vincent and the Grenadines  Ralph E. Gonsalves               Laura Antlhoniy-Brownie
Samoa                          Misa Telefoni Retzlaff            Hiinauri Petana
San Marino +                   Fiorenzo Stolfi                   Clelio Galassi
Sao Tome and Principe          Adelino Santiago Castelo David    Angela M. da Graca Viegas Sanitiago
Saudi Arabia                  Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf                Hamad AI-Sayari
Senegal                        Abdoulaye Diop                    Cheikh Hadjibou Souniare
Seychelles +                   Jereniie Boninelame               Alain Butler-Payette
Sierra Leone                   Peter J. Kuyenibeh                Samura Kamara
Singapore +                    Lee Hsien Loong                   Limii Siong GLian
Slovak Republic               Ivan Miklos                        Marian Jusko
Slovenia                       Anton Rop                         Irena Sodin
118     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



rN a 19br   N   II 0M,j,ove r. n or  WE                   --A.  ra
Solomon Islands                Laurie Chan                       Shadrach Fanega
Somalia                       (vacant)                           (vacant)
South Africa                   Trevor Andrew Manuel              Mandisi Bongani Mpahlwa
Spain                          Rodrigo de Rato Figaredo          Juan Costa Climent
Sri Lanka                      Kairshasp Nariman Choksy          Charitha Ratwatte
Sudan                          Abdul Rahim Hamdi                 Sabir Mohamed Hassan
Suriname +                     Humphrey S. Hildenberg            Stanley B. Ramsaran
Swaziland                      Guduza Dlamini                    Musa D. Fakudze
Sweden                         Bosse Ringholm                    Jan 0. Karlsson
Switzerland                    Pascal Couchepin                  Joseph Deiss
Syrian Arab Republic           Muhammad Al-Atrash                Mohamad Bittar
Tajikistan                     Safarali Najmuddinov              Maruf N. Sayfiev
Tanzania                       Abdallah Omar Kigoda              Peter J. Ngumbullu
Thailand                       Somkid Jatusripitak               Somchainuk Engtrakul
Togo                           Simfeitcheou Pre                  Kossi Assimaidou
Tonga                          Siosiua T. T. 'Utoikamanu        'Aisake V. Eke
Trinidad and Tobago            Patrick Manning                   Conrad Enill
Tunisia                        Fethi Merdassi                    Abdelhamid Triki
Turkey                         Faik Oztrak                       Aydin Karaoz
Turkmenistan +                 Ymamdurdy Gandymov                (vacant)
Uganda                         Gerald M. Ssendaula               C. M. Kassami
Ukraine +                      Vasyl Rohovyi                     Alexander Shlapak
United Arab Emirates           Hamdan bin Rashid Al-Maktoum      Mohammed Khalfan Bin Khirbash
United Kingdom                 Clare Short                       Gordon Brown
United States                  Paul H. O'Neill                   Alan P. Larson
Uruguay +                      Alberto Bension                   Ariel Davrieux
Uzbekistan                     Rustam S. Azimov                  (vacant)
Vanuatu                        Sela Molisa                       Jeffery Wilfred
Venezuela, Republica
Bolivariana de +              Felipe Perez                      Tobias Nobrega Suarez
Vietnam                        Le Duc Thuy                       Duong Thu Huong
Yemen, Republic of             Ahmed Mohamed Sofan               Anwar Rizq Al-Harazi
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of  Miroljub Labus                  Jovan Rankovic
Zambia                         Boniface Nonde                    Likolo Ndalamei
Zimbabwe                       Simba Herbert Stanley Makoni      Leonard Ladislas Tsumba
Not a member of IDA.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank  119



Organizational Information
Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power
June 30, 2002
11          JA1
Percent            Percent
Total     of      Total      of
Executive Director    Alternate               Casting votes of                      votes    total     votes    total
Appointed
Carole Brookins       Robert B. Holland, Ill  United States                        265,219   16.45   1,913,640   14.52
Yuzo Harada           Masanori Yoshida        Japan                                 127,250   7.89   1,461,212   11.09
Eckhard Deutscher     Eckhardt Biskup         Germany                               72,649    4.51    940,076    7.13
Tom Scholar           Rosemarv B. Stevenson   United Kingdom                        69,647    4.32     658,718   5.00
Pierre Duquesne       Emimianuel Moulii       France                                69,647    4.32     579,342   4.40
Elected
Philippe M. Peeters   Emini Dedeoglu          Austria, Belarus,' Belgium, Czech     77,669    4.82    592,203    4.49
(Belgium)             (Turkey)                Republic, Hungary, Kazakhstan,
Luxembourg, Slovak Republic,
Slovenia, Turkey
Moises Pineda         Josc H. Machillanda     Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,   72,786    4.51    291,969    2.22
(Mexico)              (Rep. Bol. de VeczuIela)  Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Spain,
Venezuela (Republica Bolivariana de)'
Pieter Stek           Taniara Solyanvk        Arimieniia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,   72,208    4.48     478,024   3.63
(Netherlands)         (Ukraiine)              Bulgaria,' Croatia, Cyprus, Georgia,
Israel, Macedonia (former Yugoslav
Republic of), Moldova, Netherlands,
Romania,' Ukraine'
Terrie O'Leary        Sharon\ Wleber          Antigua and Barbuda,' The Bahamas,'   62,217    3.86     560,547    4.25
(Canada)              (Jamaica)               Barbados, Belize, Canada, Dominica,
Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica,'
St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Jaime Ruiz            l.uisAntonio Balduinio  Brazil, Colombia, Dominican Republic,  58,124   3.61     392,696   2.98
(Colombia)            (Brazil)                Ecuador, Haiti, Panama, Philippines,
Suriname,' Trinidad and Tobago
Franco Passacantando  l-lelena Cordeiro       Albania, Greece, Italy, Malta,' Portugal,  55,938  3.47  517,721   3.93
(Italy)               (I'ortugal)             San Marinoa
Neil F. Hyden         Dong-Soo Chin           Australia, Cambodia, Kiribati, Korea   55,800   3.46     396,886   3.01
(Australia)           (Rep. of Korea)         (Republic of), Marshall Islands,
Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, New Zealand, Palau, Papua
New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
Vanuatu
Balmiki Prasad Singhb  Akbar Ali Khani        Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Sri Lanka  54,945    3.41     546,804   4.15
(India)               (Bangladesh)
Ahmed Sadoudi         Inaamiul lIaquec       Algeria, Ghana, Iran (Islamic Republic  54,052  3.35     253,710    1.93
(Algeria)             (Pakistan)              of), Iraq, Morocco, Pakistan, Tunisia
Finn Jonck            Inkeri Hirvensalo       Denmark, Estonia,' Finland, Iceland,  54,039    3.35     652,246   4.95
(Denmark)             (Finlanid)              Latvia, Lithuania,a Norway, Sweden
Girmai Abraham        Richard H. Kaijuka      Angola, Botswana, Burundi, Eritrea,   53,962    3.35     476,109   3.61
(Eritrea)             (Uganda)                The Gambia, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia,
Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia,'
Nigeria, Seychelles,' Sierra Leone,
South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland,
Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe
120       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Percent             Percent
Total      of       Total      of
Executive Director     Alternate                 Casting votes of                         votes     total     votes     total
Pietro Veglio           Jerzy Hylewski           Azerbaijan, Kyrgyz Republic, Poland,     46,096    2.86     467,821     3.55
(Switzerland)          (Poland)                  Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,'
Uzbekistan
Zhu Guangyao            Chen Huand               China                                    45,049     2.79     247,345    1.88
(China)                (China)
YahyaAbdullaM.          Abdulrahman M.           Saudi Arabia                             45,045     2.79     471,464    3.58
Alyahya                 Almofadhi
(Saudi Arabia)          (Saudi Arabia)
(Vacant)'              Eugene Miagkov            Russian Federation                       45,045    2.79      35,991     0.27
(Russian Federation)    (Russian Fcderationi)
Mahdy Ismail Aljazzaf  Mohaincd Kamel Amr        Bahrain,' Egypt (Arab Republic of),      43,984     2.73     283,980    2.16
(Kuwait)               (Arab Republic of Egypt)  Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya,
Maldives, Oman, Qatar,' Syrian Arab
Republic, United Arab Emirates,
Yemen (Republic of)
Abdul Aziz Mohd.        Nguyen Doail Hung        Brunei Darussalam,' Fij, .._onesia,      41,096     2.55    345,372     2.62
Yaacob                 (Vietnamii)               Lao People's Democratic Republic,
(Malaysia)                                       Malaysia, Myanm1ar, Nepal, Singapore,'
Thailand, Tonga, Vietnam
Mario Soto-Platero      Roberto Garcia-Lopez     Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay,     37,499    2.33     237,131     1.80
(Uruguay)               (Argentina)              Peru, Uruguay'
Bassary Toure           Paulo F. Gomes           Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape      32,252    2.00     374,898     2.85
(Mali)                 (Guinea-Bissau)           Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Congo (Democratic Republic
of), Congo (Republic of), C6te d'lvoire,
Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger,
Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Togo
In additioni to the Executive Directors and alternates showni in the foregoing list, the followin1g also served after Junle 30, 2001:
Executive director                      End of period of service    Alternate                          End of period of service
Khalid M.AI-Saad (Kuwait)              October 31,2001              AnnaM. Brandt (Sweden)             July 31,2001
Andrei 13ugrov (Russian Federation)     March 31, 2002              Lewis D. Holden (New Zealand)       July 6, 2)01
NMatthias Meyer (Switzerland)          March 31, 2002               Mahbub Kabir (Banigladesh)         September 21, 2001
lean-Claude Milleron (France)          August 1, 2001
Stephen Pickford (United Kingdom1)     December 16, 2001
Jan Piercy (United States)             August 19, 2001
Flelmut Schaffer (Germany)             lune 15, 2002
Note: Afghanistan (550 votes in IBRD and 13,557 votes in IDA), Ethiopia (1228 votes in IBRD and 23,053 votes in IDA), and Somalia (802 votes in IBRD and
1 0,506 votes in IDA) did not participate in the 2000 Regular Election of Executive Directors. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1,847 votes in IBRD and
25.109 votes in IDA) became a member after that election.
a. Member of IBRD only
b To be succeeded by C M. Vasudev (India) effective August 1, 2002.
c: To be succeeded by Tanwir Ali Agha (Pakistan) effective July 1, 2002.
d To be succeeded by Wu Jinkang (China) effective July 1 5, 2002.
e. To be su.cceeded by Alexey G. Kvasov (Russian Federation) effective July 1, 2002
Chapter 6 About the World Bank           121



Organizational Information
Officers
June 30, 2002
President                                                                   James D. Wolfensohn
Managing Director                                                            Shengman Zhang
Managing Director                                                            Jeffrey A. Goldstein
Managing Director                                                           Mamphela Ramphele
Managing D)irector                                                          Peter Woicke
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer                            Gary Perlin
Senior Vice President, Development Economics, and Chief Economist            Nicholas Stern
Vice President and Network Head, Operations Policy and Country Services      James W. Adams
Vice President, Financial Sector                                             Cesare Calari
Vice President and Controller                                                Fayezul H. Choudhury
Vice President, Latin America and the Caribbean                              David de Ferranti
Vice President and Corporate Secretary                                       Cheikh Ibrahima Fall
Vice President and Network Head, Environmllentally
and Sociallyv Sustainable Developmenit                                   Ian Johnson
Vice President, External Affairs and U.N. Affairs                            Mats Karisson
Vice President, East Asia and Pacific                                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Vice President, Resource Mobilization and Cofinanicing                       Motoo Kusakabe
Vice President, World Bank Institute                                         Frannie Leautier
Vice President, Europe and Central Asia                                     Johannes Linn
Vice President, Africa                                                       Callisto Madavo
Vice lIresident and Chief Information Officer                                Mohamed Muhsin
Vice President and Network Head, Poverty Reduction
and Economic Mianagemiienlt                                              Gobind Nankani
Vice lPresideent, South Asia                                                 Mieko Nishimizu
Vice President, External Affairs, Europe                                     Jean-Francois Rischard
Vice President and Network Head, Human Development                           Jo Ritzen
Vice President, Middle East and North Africa                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Vice President, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
and Network Head, Private Sector and Infrastructure                      Nemat Shafik
Vice President, Human Resources                                              Katherine Sierra
Vice President, Strategy and Resource Managemiienit                          Anil Sood
Vice President and General CouLnsel                                          Ko-Yung Tung
Vice President and Ireasurer                                                 Graeme Wheeler
Director-General, Operations Evaluationi                                     Robert Picciotto
122      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Organizational Informatio
Office Locations
June 30, 2002
Headquarters                        Geneva                               Albania
1818 H Street N.W.                  Mr. Alfredo Sfeir-Younis             Mr. Eugen Scanteie
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.       The World Bank                      The World Bank
Tel: (202) 473-1000                  3, chemin Louis-Dunant              Deshmoret e 4 Shkurtit, No. 34
Fax: (202) 477-6391                 Case Postale 66                      Tirana, Albania
E-mail: feedback@worldbank.org       1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland         Tel: (355-4) 230 017
Web: www.worldbank.org              Tel: (41-22) 748 1000                Fax: (355-4) 240 590
Fax: (41-22) 748 1030               E-mail: Escanteie@worldbank.org
New York Office
Mr. Eduardo A. Doryan                London                              Algeria
The World Bank, Office of the Special  The World Bank                    Mr. Djamal Mostefai
Representative to the U.N.           New Zealand House                   The World Bank Liaison Office
809 United Nations Plaza, Suite 900  15th Floor, Haymarket               c/o Hotel Sheraton
New York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.         London SW I Y4TE, England           Staoueli, Algiers, Algeria
E-mail: edoryan@worldbank.org       Tel: (44-20) 7930-8511               Tel: (213-21) 37-66-13
Fax: (44-20) 7930-8515               Fax: (213-21) 37-66-14
New Address effective 8/15/02                                            E-mail: Dmostefai@worldbank.org
I Dag Hammarskjold Plaza            Rm
885 2nd Avenue, 26th Floor           Rome
New York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.         Ms Susana Esteban Berrocal          Ms. Olinda M. Vieira Dias
Fax: (212) 355-4523                 Via Labicana 110                     The World Bank Liaison Office
00184 Rome, Italy                    Rua Alfredo Troni (Edificio BPC)
Europe                               Tel: (39-06) 77 7101                No. 15,14 Andar (14th Floor)
Eur.opean-Fran~ois RischardFax: (39-06) 70 96 046                        Luanda, Angola
Mr. iean-Franeois Rischard           Web: www.worldbank.org/europe       (postal address: Caixa Postal 1331)
Vice President                                                           Tel: (244-2) 394-877
66anque Mondiale                    Tokyo                                Fax: (244-2) 394-784
66 avenue d'lena                     Mr. Yukio Yoshimura                 E-mail: Otorresvieiradia@a'worldbank.org
75116 Paris, France                 Vice President
Tel: (33-1) 40 69 30 00              The World Bank                      *Argentina
Fax: (33-v1) 40 69 30 64             10th Floor, Fukoku Seimei Building  Ms. Myrna L. Alexander
2-2-2 Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku    Banco Mundial
Tokyo 100-0011 Japan                 Edificio Bouchard
Brussels                            Tel: (81-3) 3597-6650                Bouchard 547, 3er Piso
Mr. Andrew Rogerson                  Fax: (81-3) 3597-6695               C 106ABG Buenos Aires, Argentina
3anque Mondiale                      E-mail: Yyoshimural@worldbank.org   Tel: (54-11) 4316-9700
10 rue M  sontoyer                  E-mail: Ptokyo@worldbank.org         Fax: (54-11) 4313-1233
B-1000 Brussels, Belgium            Web: http://%,ww.worldbank.or.jp/    E-mail: Mlalexander@worldbank.org
Fax: (32-2) 552 00 25               Afghanistan                          Armenia
E-mail: Arogerson@worldbank.org     Mr. William Byrd                     Mr. Owaise Saadat (through 7/31/02)
Web: www.worldbank.org/eu            The World Bank                      Mr. Roger Robinson (effective 8/1/02)
Street No. 15, House No. 19         The World Bank
Frankfurt                           Wazir Akbar Khan                     Republic Square
Mr. Oltmann G. Siemens              Kabul, Afghanistan                   9 V. Sargsyan Street
The World Bank                      Tel: 0093 7207 9192                  Yerevan 375010, Armenia
Bockenheimer Lamdstrasse 109        E-mail: Wbyrd@worldbank.org          Tel: (374-1) 527888
60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany                                         Fax: (374-1) 521787
Tel: (49-69) 743-48230                                                   E-mail: Osaadat@worldbank.org
E-mail: Rrobinson@worldbank.org
*Country Directors are located in the country office See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter 5.
Note: Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 1 75.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank     123



*Australia                          Benin                               Brazil, Recife
Mr. Klaus Rohland                   Ms. Diarietou Gaye                  Mr. Tulio Barbosa
The Vorld Bank                      Banque Mondialc                     Ban)co Mundial
Level 19, CMI Building             Zone R1sidentielle de la Radio      Edificio SUDENE, Sala 13S-021
14 Martin Place                     Cotonou, B5nin                      Cidade Universitaria
Sydney NSW 2000, Australia          (postal address: B.P. 03-21 12)     50670-900 Recife, PE, Brazil
Tel: (61-2) 9235-6522               Tel: (229) 312124                  'Tel: (55-81) 3453-1644
Fax: (61-2) 9223-9903               Fax: (229) 312751, 315839           Fax: (55-81) 3453-4624
E-mail: Krohland@worldbank.org      E-mail: Dgaye@worldbank.org         E-mail: Tbarbosa@worldbank.org
Azerbaijan                          Bolivia                             Bulgaria
Mr. Akbar Noman                     Mr. John Newmana                    Mr. Oscar de Bruyn Kops
The World Bank                      Banco Mundial                       The World Bank
91-95 Mirza Mansur Street           Edificio Victor, piso 9             World Trade Ceniter-Interpred
Icheri Sheher                       Calle Fernando Guachalla #342-      36 D)ragan Tsankov Blvd.
Baku, 370004, Azerbaijan            Sopocachi                           1040 Sofia, Bulgaria
Tel: (994-12) 922586                La Paz, Bolivia                    'Icl: (359-2) 96 97 229
Fax: (994-12) 921479                (postal address: Casilla 8692)      Fax: (359-2) 971 20 45
E-mail: Anoman@worldbank.org        Tel: (591-2) 244-3555               E-mail: Odebruynkops@x'worldbalnk.org
Fax: (591-2) 212-988(0              Web: http://wNwv.worldbank.bg/
*Bangladesh                         E-mail: lnewmanCi@worldbank.org
Mr. Frederick Thomas Temple                                             Burkina Faso
The 'Aorld Bank                     Bosnia and Herzegovina              Mr. Jean Mazurelle
3A, Paribagh                        Mr. Joscph K. Ingram                Banquc Mondiale
Dhaka 1000, Banigladesh             The World Bank                      ImmILeuble BICIA, 36me ctage
(postal address: G.P.O. Box 97)     Hamdijc Kresevljakovica 19/5        Ouagadougou, Burkinia Faso
'Tel: (880-2) 861-1056              71000 Sarajevo                      (postal addrcss: B.P. 622)
Fax: (880-2) 861-3220               Bosnia and l-lerzegovinia          'Tel: (226) 306237
E-mail: Ftemple@worldbank.org       Tel: (387-33) 440 293               Fax: (226) 308649
Fax: (387-33) 440 108               E-mail: Jmazurelle@worldbank.org
Belarus                             E-nma il: lingram@xworldbank.org
Mr. Sergiy Kulyk                    Web: http://wvwv.worldbanik.org.ba/  Burundi
The World Bank                                                          Mr. Mathuritn Gbetibouo
2A Gertsen Street, 2nd Floor        *Brazil                             Banque Mondialc
tvlinsk, 220)0)30)                  Mr. Vinod Thomas                    avenuc du 18 septemilbre
Republic of Belarus                 Banco Mulidial                      Bujumbura, Burundi
Tel: (375-17) 226-5284              Setor Comercial Norte Quadra (12    (postal address: B.P. 2637)
Fax: (375-17) 211-0314              Lote A-Edificio                     Tel: (257) 222443, 223269
E-mail: Skulyk@worldbank.org        Corporate Financial Center          Fax: (257-2) 26005
Conjunitos 303/304, 603             F-mail: Mgbetibouo@H)worldbank.org
Belgium                             Brasilia, DF 70712-900, Brazil
Ms. Margret C. Thalwitz             Tel: (55-61) 329-1000               Cambodia
Banque Mondiale                     Fax: (55-61) 329- 1010              Mr. Bonaventure Mbida-Essama
Rue Montoyer                        E-mail: Vthomas@worldbank.org       The World Bank
17-19, 1st Floor                                                         13 Norodom Boulevard
1040 Brussels, Belgium              Brazil, Fortaleza                   Phniomil Penh, Cambodia
Tel: (32-2) 504 09 90               Mr. Viinod ''homas                  (postal address: P.O. Box 877)
Fax: (32-2) 504 09 99               The World Bank liaison Office       Tel: (855-23) 213538, 213639
E-mail: Mthalwitz@worldbank.org     Rua Oswaldo Cruz, No. 01            Fax: (855-23) 210504, 210373
Edificio Beira Mar 'Trade Center,   E-mail: Bmbidaessamiia@worldbank.org
Sala 1710, 60125-150 - Fortaleza,
Ceari, Brazil
Tel: (55-85) 242-7200
Fax: (55-85) 242-7177
*Country Directors are located in the country office. See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter 5.
Note: Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 175
124      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Cameroon                            Congo, Democratic Republic of      East Timor
Mr. Madani M. Tall                  Mr. Onno Ruhl                      Ms. Sarah F. Cliffe
Banque Mondiale                     The World Bank                     The World Bank
rue 1. 792, No. 186                 avenue Wagenia, no. 4847           Rua Dos Direitos Humanos
Yaounde, Cameroon                   Kinshasa-Gombe                     Dili, East Timor
(postal address: B.P. 1128)         Democratic Republic of Congo       (postal address: World Bank Mission,
'Tel: (237) 221 68 75               Tel: (243) 99 49015                East 1'imor, GPO Box 3548,
Fax: (237) 221 07 22               Fax: (243) 880-7817                 Darwin, NT08t)1,Australia)
E-mail: N1tall@worldbank.org       E-mail: Oruhl@worldbank.org         Tel: (670-390) 312-367/324-649
Fax: (670-390) 321-178
Central African Republic            Congo, Republic of                 (from Australia only)
Mr. Madani M. Tall                 Mr. Alassanc Diawara                E-mail: Scliffe@worldbank.org
Banque Mondiale                    The World Bank
rLIe des Missions                  Immeuble BDEAC, 2e etage            Ecuador
Bangui, Republique Centrafricainie  Boulevard de la Rcvolution         Mr. McDoniald P. Benjamin
(postal address: B.P. 819)          P.O. Box 14536                     Banco Mundial
Tel: (236) 616 138                  Brazzaville, Republic of Congo     Calle 12 de Octubre 1830 y Cordero
Fax: (236) 616087                  Tel: (242) 81 33 30                 World Trade Center
E-mail: MNtallI)worldbank.org      Fax: (242) 81 53 16                 Torre B, Piso 13
E-mail: Adiawara@worldbank.org     Quito, Ecuador
Chad                                                                   Tel: (593-2) 222 0204
Mr. Gregor Hans Binker t            *C6te d'lvoire                     Fax: (593-2) 222 0205
Banque Mondiale                    Mr. Mamadou Dia                     E-mail: Mbenjaminl(worldbank.org
avenue Charles de Gaulle            Banque Mondiale
et avenue du Commanidanit L.amy     Corner of Booker Washington and    *Egypt, Arab Republic of
Quartier Bololo                    Jacques Aka Streets, Cocody,        Mr. Mahmood A. Ayub
N'D)jamena, Chad                   Abidjan 01, C6te d'lvoire           The World Bank
(postal address: B.P. 146)         (postal address: B.P. 1850)        WVorld Trade Center
Tel: (235-52) 3247, 3360            Tel: (225) 22 4( 04 00             1191 Corniche El-Nil, 15th Floor
Fax: (235-52) 4484                  Fax: (225) 22 40 04 61             Boulaq
E-mail: Gbinkert@worldbank.org     E-mail: MdiaBiworldbank.org         Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt,  1221
'Tel: (20-2) 574-1670
*China                              *Croatia                           Fax: (20-2) 574-1676
Mr. Yukoni Huang                   Mr. Andrew Vorkink, Coulitry Director  E-mail: Mayvub@worldbank.org
The World Bank                      Ms. Indira Konjhodzic, Country
9th Floor, Building A, Fuhua Mansion  Manager                          Eritrea
No. 8, Chaoyangmen Beidajie         The World Bank                     Mr. Emmanuel Y. Ablo
Dongcheng District,                Trg J.F: Keninedya 6b/111           The World Bank
Beijing 100027, China               HR-I0000 Zagreb, Croatia           15/17,Tscgai Adig Street
(postal address: P.O. Box 100600-9086)  Tel: (385-1) 2357-222          Zone 03, Subzone 01
Tel: (86-10) 6554-3361              Fax: (385-1) 2357-200              Asmara, Eritrea
Fax: (86-1(1) 6554-1686             E-mail: Avorkink@%worldbank.org    Tel: (291-1) 12 43 02
E-mail: Yhuang2@worldbank.org      E-mail: Ikonjhodzic@worldbank.org   Fax: (291-1) 12 43 09
WN'eb: http://www.worldbank.org.cn/  Web: http://www.worldbank.hr/     E-mail: Eablo@worldbank.org
Colombia                           Dominican Republic                  *Ethiopia
Mr. Alberto Chueca Mora            Mr. Marco Mantovanelli              Mr. Ishac Diwan
Banco Mundial                      Banco Mundial                       The World Bank
Carrera 7 No. 71-21                Calle Virgilio Diaz Ordofiez #36    Africa Avenue
Torre A, piso 16                   esq. Gustavo Mejia Ricart           Bole Road
Apartado 10229                     Edificio Mezzo Tempo, Suite 401     Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Bogota, Colombia                   4ta. Planta, Santo Domingo, R.D.    (postal address: P.O. Box 5515)
'fel: (57-1) 326-3600              Tel: (809) 566-6815                 Tel: (251-1) 62 77 00
Fax: (57-1) 326-3480               Fax: (809) 566-7746, 566-7189       Fax: (251-1) 62 77 17
E-mail: Achuecamora@worldbank.org   E-mail: Mrmantovanelli(worldbank.org  E-mail: Idiwan@0worldbank.org
*Country Directors are located in the country office. See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter 5.
Note. Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 175.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank    125



Gabon                                Guyana                              *Indonesia
Banque Mondiale                      Mr. James Droop                     Mr. Mark Baird
Quartier Palais de Justice           The World Bank Liaison Office       (through 8/31/02)
Section RG                           UNDP Building                       Mr. Andrew Steer (effective 9/1/02)
Parcelle No. 222                     42 Brickdam and UN Place            The World Bank
Libreville, Gabon                    Stabroek                            Jakarta Stock Exchange Building
Tel: (241) 73 81 71                  Georgetown, Guyana                  Tower 2, 13th Floor
Fax: (241) 73 81 69                 Tel: (592) 223-5036                  Sudirman Central Business
Fax: (592) 225-1384                  District (SCBD)
Georgia                              E-mail: Jdroop@worldbank.org       Ji. Jendral Sudirman Kav. 52-53
Mr. Tevfik Mehmet Yaprak                                                 Jakarta 12190, Indonesia
The World Bank                       Haiti                               (postal address: P.O. Box 324/IKT)
5A, 1st Drive, Chavchavadze Avenue   Mr. Marco Mantovanelli              Tel: (62-21) 5299-3000
Tbilisi, 380079 Georgia              Banque Mondiale                     Fax: (62-21) 5299-3111
Tel: (995-32) 91-30-96              c/o IDB, 389 Route de Bourdon        E-mail: Mbaird@worldbank.org
Fax: (995-32) 91-23-71               Port-au-Prince, Ha'ti               (through 8/31/02)
E-mail: Tyaprak@worldbank.org       Tel: (509) 510-3797                  E-mail: Asteer@worldbank.org
Fax: (509) 512-5895 \ (809) 566-7746  (effective 9/1/02)
*Ghana                               E-mail: M mantovanelli@worldbank.org  Weeb: http://www.worldbank.or.id
Mr. Mats Karlsson (effective 11/1/02)
The World Bank                       Honduras                            Jamaica
69 Dr. Isert Road                    Mr. Joseph Owen                     Mr. Errol G. Graham
North Ridge Residential Area         Banco Mundial                       The World Bank Liaison Office
Accra, Ghana                         Centro Financiero BANEXPO, 4to Piso  Island Life Ccnter
(postal address: P.O. Box M. 27)     Boulevard San Juan 13osco           6 St. Lucia Avenue
Tel: (233-21) 229681                 Colonia Payaqui                     Third Floor
Fax: (233-21) 227887                 Apartado Postal 3591,               Kingston 5, Jamaica
Tegucigalpa, Honduras                Tel: (876) 960-0459
Guatemala                            Tel: (504) 239-4551                 Fax: (876) 960-0463
Mr. Eduardo Someinsatto              Fax: (504) 239-4555                 E-mail: Egraham@worldbank.org
Banco Mundial                        E-mail: Jowen@worldbank.org
13 Calle 3-40                                                            *Kazakhstan
Zona 10, Edificio Atlantis, Piso 14  *India                              Mr. Dennis N. de Tray
Guatemala City, Guatemala            Mr. Edwin R. Lim                    'I'he WAorld Bank Almatv Office
Tel: (502) 366-2044                  Mr. Michael Carter (effective 9/1/02)  41/A Kazybek bi Street,
Fax: (502) 366-1936                 The World Bank                       4th Floor, 480100 Almaty,
E-mail: Esomensatto@worldbanlk.org   70 Lodi Estate                      Republic of Kazakhstan
New Delhi 110 003, India             Tel: (7-3272) 980-580
Guinea                               (postal address: P.O. Box 416,      Fax: (7-3272) 980-581
Mr. Jan Aime E. Weetjcns             New Delhi 110 001)                  E-mail: Ddetray@worldbank.org
Banque Mondiale                      lel: (91-11) 461 7241               Web: http://www.worldbanik.org.kz/
Immeuble de l'Archev&he              Fax: (91-11) 461 9393
Face Baie des Anges                  E-mail: Elim@worldbank.org          The World Bank Astana Ofihce
Conakry, Guinee                      Web: http://www.worldbank.org.in1/  Samal Microdistrit, 14th Floor
(postal address: B.P. 1420)                                              Astana Towers
Tel: (224) 412-770                                                       473000 Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan
Fax: (224) 415-094                                                       Tel: (7-3172) 580-5555
E-mail: Jweetjens@worldbank.org                                          Fax: (7-3172) 58-03-42
*Country Directors are located in the country office. See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter 5.
Note: Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 175.
126      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



*Kenya                              Lebanon                            Malawi
Mr. Makhtar Diop                   The World Bank                      Mr. Dunstan M. Wai
The World Bank                      U.N.-House                         The World Banik
Hill Park Building                  6th Floor                          Development House
Upper Hill                          Riad El Solh                       Capital City
Nairobi, Kenya                      Beirut 1107 2270, Lebanon          Lilongwe 3, Malawi
(postal acidress: P.O. Box 30577)   (postal address: P.O. Box 11-8577)  (postal address: P.O. Box 30557)
Tel: (254-2) 260 300                Tel: (961-1) 987 800               Tel: (265-1) 770 611
Fax: (254-2) 260 380                Fax: (961-1) 986 800               Fax: (265-1) 771 158 / 773 908
E-mail: Mcdiop2@worldbank.org                                          E-mail: Dwai@worldbank.org
Lesotho
Kosovo                              Mr. Fayez S. Omar                  Mali
Mr. Sidi Boubacar                   The World Bank Liaison Office      Ms. Judith Press
The World Bank Liaison Office       U.N. House                         Banque Mondiale
Rruga Tirana No. 35                 United Nations Road                Immeuble SOGEFIH,
38000 Pristina, Kosovo              Maseru, Lesotho                    Centre Commercial Rute 32
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia     Tel: (266) 321-480                  Quartier du Fleuve, Bamako, Mali
(Serbia and Montenegro)            Fax: (266) 310-619                  (postal address: B. P. 1864)
Tel: (381-38) 249 459                                                  Tel: (223) 222 22 83
Fax: (381-38) 249 780              Lithuania                           Fax: (223) 222 66 82
E-mail: Sboubacar@worldbank.org    Mr. Mantas Nocius                   E-mail: Jpress@worldbank.org
The World Bank
Kyrgyz Republic                    Jogailos Str. 4, 5th Floor          Mauritania
Mr. Mohinder S. Mudahar             2001 Vilnius, Lithuania            Mr. Yves Duvivier
The World Bank                      Tel: (370-5) 210 7680              Banque Mondiale
214 Moskovskaya Str.                Fax: (370-5) 210 7681              Villa No. 30, Lot A
Bishkek 720010, Kyrgyz Republic    E-mail: Mnocius@worldbank.org       Quartier Socogim
Tel: (996-312) 61 06 50             Web: http://www.worldbank.lt/      Nouakchott, Mauritanie
Fax: (996-312) 61 03 56                                                (postal address: B. P. 667)
E-mail: M\mudahar@worldbank.org    Macedonia, former Yugoslav          Tel: (222) 525 1017
Republic of                        Fax: (222) 525 1334
Lao People's Democratic Republic   Ms. Marie-H. P. Bricknell           E-mail: Yduvivier@worldbank.org
Mr. Enrique 0. Crousillat           The World Bank
The World Bank                      34 Leninova Street                 *Mexico
Pathou Xay - Nehru Road            91000 Skopje, Republic of Macedonia  Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Vientiane, Lao PDR                 Tel: (389-2) 117-159                Banco Mundial
(postal address: P.O. Box 345      Fax: (389-2) 117-627                Insurgentes Sur 1605, Piso 24
code 01004)                         E-mail: Mbricknell@worldbank.org   San Jose Insurgentes
Tel: (856-21) 414-209,450-010       Web: http//www.worldbank.org.mk/   03900 Mexico, D. F., Mexico
Fax: (856-21) 414-210                                                  Tel: (52-5) 5480-4200
E-mail: Lschneider@worldbank.org    *Madagascar                        Fax: (52-5) 5480-4222
Mr. Hafez Ghanem
Latvia                             Banque Mondiale                     Moldova
Mrs. Inguna Dobraja                Rue Andriamifidy L.                 Mr. Carlos Elbirt
The World Bank                     Razafimanantsoa, Anosy (pres du     T he World Bank
Smilsu Street 8,5th Floor          Minist&e des Affaires Etrangeres)   Sciusev str., 76/6, MD 2012
Riga, LV 1162, Latvia              Antananarivo 101, Madagascar        Chisinau, Republic of Moldova
Tel: (371-7) 220-744               (postal address: B. P. 4140)        Tel: (373-2) 237-065
Fax: (371-7) 814-245               Tel: (261-20) 2256000               Fax: (373-2) 237-053
E-mail: Idobraja@worldbank.org     Fax: (261-20) 2233338               E-mail: Celbirt@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.org.lv/  E-mail: Hghanem@worldbank.org
*Country Directors are located in the country office. See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter 5.
Note: Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 175.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank    127



Mongolia                             Niger                               *Peru
Mr. Saha Dhevan Meyanathanl          Mr. Geoffrey Bergen                 Ms. Isabel M. Guerrero
The World Bank                       Banque Mondiale                      Banco Mundial
11 -A Peace Avenue                  42 rue des Dallols                   Avenida Alvarez Calderon 185
Ulaanbaatar 210648, Mongolia         Niamey, Niger                       Piso 7, San Isidro
Tel: (976-11) 312-647                (postal address: B. P. 12402)       Lima, Peru
Fax: (976-11) 312-645               Tel: (227) 72 50 09                  Tel: (51-1) 215-0660
E-mail: Smeyanathan@worldbank.org    Fax: (227) 73 55 06                 Fax: (51-1) 421-7241
WNteb: http://www.worldbank.org.mn   E-mail: Gbergen@worldbank.org       E-mail: Iguerrero@worldbank.org
Morocco                              *Nigeria                            *Philippines
Mr. Olivier P. Godron                Mr. Mark D. Tomlinson               Mr. Robert V. Pulley
The World Bank                       The World Bank                      The World Banik
7, rue Larbi Ben Abdellah            Plot 433 Yakubu Gowon Crescent      23/F, The Taipan Place Building
Rabat-Souissi, Morocco              Opposite ECOWAS Secretariat          Emerald Avenue, Ortigas Center
Tel: (212-3) 763.60.50               Asokoro District                    Pasig City, Metro Manila, Philippines
Fax: (212-3) 763.60.51               Abuja, Nigeria                     'Tel: (63-2) 637-5855
E-mail: Ogodron@worldbank.org       (postal address: P.O. Box 2826, Garki)  Fax: (63-2) 637-5870
Tel: (234-9) 314-5269                E-mail: Rpulley@worldbank.org
*Mozambique                          Fax: (234-9) 314-5267
Mr. Darius Mans                      E-mail: Mtomlinson@worldbank.org    *Poland
The World Bank                                                           Mr. Michael F. Carter
Avenue Kenneth Kaunda, 1224          *Pakistan                           The W\orld Bank
Maputo, Mozambiquc                   Mr. John W. Wall                    53. Emilii Plater St.
(postal address: Caixa Postal 4053)  Thle World Bank                     Warsaw Financial Center, 9th Floor
Tel: (258-1) 49 28 41                20 A Shahrah-e-Jamhuriyat, Ramna 5,  00-113 WVarsaw, Poland
Fax: (258-1) 49 28 93                G-5/1, Islamabad, Pakistan          Tel: (48-22) 520 8000
E-mail: Dmans0aworldbank.org        (postal address: PO. Box 1025)       Fax: (48-22) 52(0 8001
'Tel: (92-51) 2279641                E-mail: Mcarterl@ 'worldbank.org
*Nepal                               Fax: (92-51) 2279648               WNAeb: http:/wwxw.worldbank.org.pl/
Mr. Kenichi Ohashi                   E-mail: Jwall@'worldbank.org
The World Bank                                                           Romania
Yak & Yeti Hotel Complex, Lal Durbar,  Papua New Guinea                  Mr. M. Ziad Alahdad
Kathmandu, Nepal                     Mr. Mahesh Sharima                 'I'he W'orld Bank
(postal address: P.O. Box 798)      The World Bank Liaison Office        Boulevard Dacia 83, Sector 2,
T'el: (977-1) 226793                 c/o Holiday Inn                     Bucharest, Romania
Fax: (977-1) 225112                  Suite 102                           Tel: (40-1) 210-1804
E-mail: Kohashi@worldbank.org        P.O. Box 1981                       Fax: (40-1) 210-2021
Boroko, Port Moresby                 E-mail: Malahdad@l'worldbank.org
Nicaragua                            Papua New Guinea                    Web: http://www.worldbank.org.ro/
Mr. Ulrich Lichler                   Tel: (675) 323-1366
Banco Mundial                        Fax: (675) 323-1526                 *Russian Federation
De la Rotonda de ia                                                      Mr. Juliai F. Schweitzer
Centroamerica, 400 mts. abajo        Paraguay                            The World Bank
Segundo Piso Edificio SYSCOM         Mr. Peter M. Hansen                 Sadovaya-Kudrinskaya No. 3
Managua, Nicaragua                   Banco Mundial                       Moscow 123242, Russian Federation
Tel: (505) 270-0000                  Edificio Naciones Unidas            Tel: (7-095) 745-7000
Fax: (505) 270-0077                 Av. Mcal. Lopez y Saravi             Fax: (7-095) 254-8368
E-mail: Ulachler@worldbank.org       Asuncion, Paraguay                  E-mail: Jschweitzer@worldbank.org
'Tel: (595-21) 664-000               Web: http://www.worldbank.org.ru/eng/
Fax: (595-21) 664-002
E-mail: Phansen I @worldbank.org
*Country Directors are located in the country office. See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter 5.
Note. Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 175.
128      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Rwanda                              *South Africa                      Togo
Mr. Edward K. Brown                Mr. Fayez S. Omar                   Mr. Jean-Michel Happi
The World Bank                     The World Bank                      Banque Mondiale
Blvd. de la Revolution              First Floor, Pro Equity Court      169 Boulevard du 13 Janvier
SORAS Building                      1250 Pretorius Street              Immeuble B'CI, 8me etage
Kigali, Rwanda                      Hatfield, Pretoria 0083            Lome, Tbgo
(postal address: P.O. Box 609)      Republic of South Africa           (postal address: Boite Postale 3915)
Tel: (250) 572204                   (postal address: P.O. Box 12629,   Tel: (228) 221.55.69
Fax: (250) 576385                   Hatfield 0028, Pretoria)           Fax: (228) 221.78.56
E-mail: Ebrown I @worldbank.org     Tel: (27-12) 431-3100              E-mail: Jhappi@worldbank.org
Fax: (27-12) 431-3134
Saudi Arabia                        E-mail: Fomar@worldbank.org        Tunisia
Mr. Edgar Saravia                                                      Ms. Fatma Felah
The World Bank                      *Sri Lanka                         The World Bank Liaison Office
UNDP Building, Diplomatic Quarter   Mr. Peter C. Harrold               61, Boulevard Bab Benat
(beside American Embassy)          The World Bank                      1035 Tunis, Tunisia
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia                Ist Floor, DFCC Building           Tel: (216-71) 563-265
(postal address: I'O. Box 5900,    73/5, Galle Road                    Fax: (216-71) 436-475
Riyadh 11432, Saudi Arabia)         Colombo 3, Sri Lanka               E-mail: Ffelah@worldbank.org
Tel: (966-1) 483-4956              (postal address: P.O. Box 1761)
Fax: (966-1) 488-5311              Tel: (94-1) 448070/1                *Turkey
E-mail: Esaravia@worldbank.org     Fax: (94-1) 440357                  Mr. Ajay Chhibber
E-mail: Pharrold@worldbank.org     The World Bank
*Senegal                                                               Ugur Mumcu Caddesi 88
Mr. John McIntire                  Tajikistan                          Kat: 2, 06700 Gaziosmanpasa
Banque Mondiale                    Mr. Mustapha Rouis                  Ankara, Turkey
3, place de l'independance         The World Bank                      Tel: (90-312) 446 38 24
Immeuble SDIH 5eme 6tage            Rudaki Avenue 105                  Fax: (90-312) 446 24 42
Dakar, Senegal                     Dushanbe, Tajikistan                E-mail: Achhibber@worldbank.org
(postal address: B. P. 3296)       Tel: (992-372) 21-07-56             Web: http://www.worldbank.org.tr/
Tel: (221) 849-50-00                Fax: (992-372) 51-00-42
Fax: (221) 849-50-27                E-mail: Mrouis@worldbank.org       Turkmenistan
E-mail: Jmcintire@worldbank.org                                        Mrs. Guljahan Kurbanova
Tanzania                           The WAVorld Bank Liaison Office
Sierra Leone                        Mr. Benio J. Ndulu                 United Nations Building
Mr. Richard Lynn Ground            The World Bank                      Atabaev Street, 40
The World Bank                      50 Mirambo Street                  Ashgabat 744000
Africanus House                     Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania            Turkmenistan
13A Howe Street                    (postal address: P.O. Box 2054)     Tel: (993-12) 350477
Freetown, Sierra Leone             Tel: (255-22) 2114575               Fax: (993-12) 351693
Tel: (232-22) 227555                Fax: (255-22) 2113039              E-mail: Gkurbanova@worldbank.org
Fax: (232-22) 228555               E-mail: Bndulu@worldbank.org
E-mail: Rground@worldbank.org                                          Uganda
*Thailand                          Mr. Robert Blake
Singapore                           Mr. Ian C. Porter                  The World Bank
Mr. Peter L. Stephens              The World Bank                      I Lumumba Avenue
The World Bank Liaison Office      Diethelm Towers, Tower A            Rwenzori House, 4th Floor
#15-08, MAS Building                14th Floor, 93/1 Wireless Road     Kampala, Uganda
10 Shenton Way                     Lumpini, Pathumwan                 (postal address: P.O. Box 4463)
Singapore, 079117                  Bangkok 10330, Thailand             Tel: (256-41) 230-094
Tel: (65) 6324-4612                Tel: (66-2) 256-7792                Fax: (256-41) 230-092
Fax: (65) 6324-4615                Fax: (66-2) 256-7794/5              E-mail: Rblake@worldbank.org
E-mail: Pstephensl@worldbank.org   E-mail: Iporter@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.or.th
*Country Directors are located in the country office. See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter 5.
Note: Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 175.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank    129



Ukraine                             *Vietnam                           Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of
Mr. Gregory T. Jedrzejczak          Mr. Andrew D. Steer                Mr. Rory O'Sullivan
The World Bank                      (through Aug. 31, 2002)            The World Bank
2 Lysenko Street                   The World Bank                      Bulevar Kralja Aleksandra 86-90
Kyiv 01034, Ukraine                63 Ly Thai To Street, 8th Floor     Belgrade, Federal Republic
Tel: (380-44) 490 6671              Hanoi, Vietnam                     of Yugoslavia
Fax: (380-44) 490 6670             Tel: (84-4) 934-6600                Tel: (381-11) 3023-700
E-mail: Gjedrzejczak@worldbank.org  Fax: (84-4) 934-6597               Fax: (381-11) 3023-732
Web: http://www.worldbank.org.ua/   E-mail: hha@worldbank.org          E-mail: Rosullivan@worldbank.org
(External Affairs contact's e-mail)
Uzbekistan                         Web: http://www.worldbank.org/vn    Zambia
Mr. David Pearce                                                       Mr. Laurence C. Clarke
The World Bank                      *West Bank and Gaza                The World Bank
43 Academician Suleimanova Street   Mr. Nigel Roberts                  Anglo American Building
Tashkent, Uzbekistan 700017        The World Bank                      74 Independence Avenue, 3rd Floor
Tel: (998-71) 1335002               P.O. Box 54842                     Lusaka, Zambia 10101
Fax: (998-71) 1206215              Jerusalem                           (postal address: P.O. Box 35410)
E-mail: Dpearce@worldbank.org      Al-Ram Tel: (972-2) 2366500         Tel: (260-1) 252-811
Al-Ram Fax: (972-2) 2366543         Fax: (260-1) 254-283
Venezuela, Republica                Gaza Tel: (972-8) 2823422          E-mail: Lclarke@worldbank.org
Bolivariana de                     Gaza Fax: (972-8) 2824296
Mr. Felipe Saez                                                        Zimbabwe
Banco Mundial                      Yemen, Republic of                  Mr. Ohene Owusu Nyanin
Av. Francisco de Miranda            Mr. Robert E. Hindle               The World Bank
con Av. del Parque                  The World Bank, Hadda Street No. 40  Old Lonrho Building
Torre Edicampo, Piso 10,            off Damascus Road                  88 Nelson Mandela Avenue
Campo Alegre                        Sana'a, Republic of Yemen          Harare, Zimbabwe
Caracas, Republica Bolivariana      (postal address: P.O. Box 18152)   (postal address: P.O. Box 2960)
deVenezuela                         Tel: (967-1) 413 708               Tel: (263-4) 729-611
Tel: (58-212) 267-9943              Fax: (967-1) 413 709               Fax: (263-4) 708-659
Fax: (58-212) 267-9828              E-mail: RhindleBworldbank.org      E-mail: Onyanin@worldbank.org
E-mail: Fsaez@worldbank.org                                            Web: http://www.worldbank.org.zw/
*Country Directors are located in the country office. See the Map of Country Offices and Borrower Eligibility in Chapter S.
Note: Web sites for Bank regions appear on pages 174 and 175.
130      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Table 6.1 Country Eligibility for Borrowing from the World Bank
(as of July 1, 2002)
Income g~pup      ~                .~.OiGNI                  Incomegroup                         2001 GNI
2 ' -      - ,.- pjercapita6                     and couniry                         percapila!
Countries eligible for IBRD funds only
Per capita income over $5,185                                  Dominican Republic                    2,230
Slovenia                                9,780                 Marshall Islands                       2,190
Korea, Republic of                     9,400                  Micronesia, Federated States of        2,150
Antigua and Barbuda                     9,070                 Fiji                                   2,130
Argentina                               6,960                 Tunisia                                2,070
St. Kitts and Nevis                     6,880                  El Salvador                           2,050
Palau                                  6,730                  Peru                                   2,000
Uruguay                                 5,670                 Thailand                               1,970
Mexico                                  5,540                  Namibia                               1,960
Trinidad and Tobago                     5,540                 Colombia                               1,910
Czech Republic                          5,270                 Iran, Islamic Republic of              1,750
Seychelles                                -                   Jordan                                 1,750
Russian Federation                     1,750
Per capita income $2,976-$5,185                               Romania                                1,710
Hungary                                4,800                  Macedonia, forner Yugoslav Republic of  1,690
Venezuela, Republica Bolivariana de     4,760                 Suriname                               1,690
Croatia                                4,550                  Guatemala                              1,670
Chile                                  4,350                  Algeria                                1,630
Poland                                 4,240                  Bulgaria                               1,560
Lebanon                                4,010                  Egypt, Arab Republic of                1,530
Costa Rica                              3,930
Mauritius                              3,830                  Per capita income $746-$1,435
Estonia                                3,810                  Kazakhstan                             1,360
Slovak Republic                        3,720                  Paraguay                               1,300
Malaysia                               3,640                  Swaziland                              1,300
Botswana                               3,630                  Ecuador                                1,240
Panama                                  3,290                 Belarus                                1,200
Latvia                                 3,260                  Morocco                                1,180
Gabon                                   3,160                  Philippines                           1,050
Lithuania                               3,080                 Syrian Arab Republicb                  1,000
Brazil                                 3,070                  Turkmenistan                             950
China                                   890
Per capita income $1,436-$2,975                               Iraq'
Belize                                  2,910
South Africa                           2,900                  Per capita income less than $746
Jamaica                                2,700                   Ukraine                                 710
Turkey                                 2,530                  Equatorial Guinea                        700
Countries eligible for a blend of IBRD and IDA fundsd
Per capita income $2,976-$5,185                               Per capita income less than $746
St. Lucia'                             3,970                  Indonesia                               680
Grenadae                               3,720                  Azerbaijan                              650
Dominica'                              3,060                  Papua New Guinea                        580
Uzbekistan                              560
Per capita income $1,436-$2,975                               Zimbabwe'                                480
St. Vincent and the Grenadinese         2,690                  India                                   460
Per capita income $746-$ 1,435                                Pakistan                                 420
Bosnia and Herzegovina                  1,270                 Nigeria                                  290
Bolivia                                  940
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of'          -                                                  (continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank      131



Table 6.1 Country Eligibility for Borrowing from the World Bank (continued)
i2ndome grc,uj%.y;E        -  ,       ..:22od;cN1     ,.      -     iStt~nc  gr           -                         2001CNI
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              PL                                        N
0-  t ry.                     O~*-  er capita'
and couii:it;   Y$                   - .prcpia=               ; *.Manvd?cun
Countries eligible for IDA funds onlyd
Per capita income $1,436-$2,975                                     Mauritania                                         350
Maldives'                                    2,040                   Kenya                                              340
ibngac                                       1,530                  Gambia, The                                         330
SamoaC                                       1,520                  Sudan'                                             330
Zambia                                             320
Per capita income $746-$1,435                                       Lao People's Democratic Republic                   310
Cape Verde'                                  1,310                  Ghana                                              290
Albania                                      1,230                  Kyrgyz Republic                                    280
Vanuatu'                                     1,050                  S3o Tom6 and Principe                              280
Djibouti                                      890                   Tanzania                                           280
Honduras                                      890                   Uganda                                             280
Guyana                                        840                   Central African Republic'                          270
Kiribati                                      830                   Cambodia                                           270
Sri Lanka                                     830                   Togo'                                              270
Madagascar                                         260
Per capita income less than $746                                    Nepal                                              240
Congo, Republic of                            700                   Rwanda                                             220
Bhutani                                       640                   Burkina Faso                                       210
CGte dIvoire                                  630                   Mali                                                210
Solomon Islands'                              580                   Mozambique                                          210
Cameroon                                      570                   Chad                                                200
Georgia                                       570                   Eritrea                                             190
Armenia                                       560                   Malawi                                              170
Lesotho                                       550                   Niger                                               170
Angola                                        500                   Guinea-Bissau                                       160
Haiti'                                        480                   Tajikistan                                          160
Senegal                                       480                   Sierra Leone                                        140
Yemen, Republic of                            460                    Burundi                                            100
Vietnam                                       410                   Ethiopia                                            100
Guinea                                        400                   Afghanistan'
Mongolia                                      400                   Congo, Democratic Republic of'
Moldova                                       390                   Liberia'
Comoros                                       380                   MyanmarC
Bangladesh                                    370                   Nicaragua
Beniii                                        360                   Somalia'
- Precise figures are not available.
a. World Bank Atlas methodology. per capita GNI (gross national income, formerly GNP) figures are in 2001 U S dollars
b. Loans/credits in nonaccrual status as of June 30, 2002.
c. Loans/credits in nonaccrual status as of July 1, 2002.
d Countries are eligible for IDA on the basis of (a) relat ve poverty and (b) lack of creditwonthiness. The operational cutoff for IDA eligibility for fiscal 2003 is a
2001 GNI per capita of $875, using Atlas methodology. To rece ve IDA resources, countries also meet tests of performance. In exceptional circumstances,
IDA extends eligibility temporarily to countries that are above the operational cutoff and are undertaking major adjustment efforts but are not creditworthy
for IBRD lending. An exception has been made for small island economies (see footnote e)
e An exception to the GNI per capita operational cutoff for IDA eligibility ($875 for fiscal 2003) has been made for some small island economies, which otherwise
would have little or no access to Bank Group assistance because they lack creditworthiness. For such countries, IDA funding is considered case by case for the
financing of projects and adjustmernt programs designed to strengthen creditworth ness.
132       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Tables
Table 6.2 World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and
Net Transfers in Africa, Fiscal 1997-2002
(millions of dollars)
Ethiopia           Uganda             Nigeria          Total region
Item                       2002   1997-2002a  2002  1997-2002a   2002  1997-2002a  2002    1997-2002a
IBRD and IDA commitments    210      1,646    296      1,275     427       682     3,794     16,021
Undisbursed balance        1,170     1,170    666        666     261       261     8,363      8,363
Gross disbursements          437     1,097     256     1,064      26       832     2,651     14,232
Repayments                   22       114       21       253     196      1,749      792      6,525
Net disbursements           415       982      235       811    (169)     (917)    1,859      7,707
Interest and charges          16       76       16        88      80       831       417      3,054
Net transfer                 399      907      219       724    (249)    (1,748)   1,442      4,653
Note: The table shows the three countries with the largest lending comm tments in the region over the past two fiscal years (2001 and 2002) Numbers have been
rounded
a. During fiscal 2002 the Bank delivered approximately $227.63 million In debt service relief under the HIPC Initiative to 22 countries in the Africa region,
including $41 25 million to Tanzania and j19 35 m Ilion to Zambia.
Table 6.3 World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and
Net Transfers in East Asia and Pacific, Fiscal 1997-2002
(millions of dollars)
China            Vietnam           Indonesia          Total region
Item                       2002   1997-2002  2002   1997-2002   2002    1997-2002   2002   1997-2002
IBRD and IDA commitments    563     10,551     593    2,561       303     5,288     1,774    31,141
Undisbursed balance        8,427    8,427    1,760    1,760     2,110     2,110    14,339    14,339
Gross disbursements        2,015    11,911     332    1,338       507     5,895     3,591    32,029
Repayments                 1,532    4,108        2        8       956     5,574     3,435    15,607
Net disbursements           483     7,803      330    1,330      (449)      322       156    16,422
Interest and charges        725     4,102        9       37       911     5,031     2,457    14,446
Net transfer                (242)   3,702      321    1,294    (1,360)   (4,709)   (2,301)    1,976
Note: The tabie shows the three countries with the largest lending commitments in the region over the past two fiscal years (2001 and 2002). Numbers have been
rounded.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank  133



Tables
Table 6.4 World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net
Transfers in South Asia, Fiscal 1997-2002
(millions of dollars)
India            Pakistan         Bangladesh         Total region
Item                       2002   1997-2002  2002   1997-2002   2002   1997-2002   2002   1997-2002
IBRD and IDA commitments   2,190   11,271     800     2,507      321     2,761     3,508    17,205
Undisbursed balance        8,026    8,026     585       585    1,367     1,367    10,395    10,395
Gross disbursements        2,089    9,806     869     3,756      321     2,088     3,392    16,392
Repayments                 1,467    7,451     310     1,653      104      470      1,934     9,793
Net disbursements           622     2,355     559     2,103      217     1,618     1,459     6,599
Interest and charges        504     3,857     170     1,252       49      283        745     5,527
Net transfer                118     (1,502)   389       851      168     1,334       714     1,072
Note The table shows the three countr es with tne argest ending commitments in the region over the past two f sca years (2001 and 2002). Numbers have been
rounded.
Table 6.5 World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net
Transfers in Europe and Central Asia, Fiscal 1997-2002
(millions of dollars)
Yugoslavia,          Russian
Turkey           Fed. Rep. of       Federation        Total region
Item                       2002   1997-2002   2002   1997-2002   2002   1997-2002  2002   1997-2002
IBRD and IDA commitments   3,550    7,498     172     2,039      351      6,113    5,524    28,606
Undisbursed balance       2,541     2,541       0         0     1,751     1,751    8,497     8,497
Gross disbursements        1,679    4,293      70        70      376      6,351    3,824    22,429
Repayments                  427     3,578       0         0      448      1,080    1,640     9,673
Net disbursements          1,253     715       70        70      (71)     5,271    2,184    12,757
Interest and charges        290     1,580      18        18      298      1,853    1,179     7,174
Net transfer                963     (865)      52        52     (370)     3,418    1,005     5,582
Note. The table shows the three countries with the largest lending commitments in the region over the past two fiscal years (2001 and 2002) Numbers have been
rounded.
134     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Tables
Table 6.6 World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and
Net Transfers in Latin America and the Caribbean,
Fiscal 1997-2002
(millions of dollars)
Brazil            Mexico            Argentina        Total region
Item                       2002  1997-2002   2002    1997-2002  2002   1997-2002   2002   1997-2002
IBRD and IDA commitments 1,566     8,615       660     7,013     735     7,266    4,366     31,289
Undisbursed balance       2,646    2,646     1,597     1,597   2,438     2,438    9,698      9,698
Gross disbursements         497    8,643       813     6,857    1,190    7,654     3,777    31,968
Repayments                 807     5,668     1,304     7,868    1,363    3,485    4,588     24,177
Net disbursements          (310)   2,975      (490)   (1,011)   (173)    4,168      (811)    7,791
Interest and charges       489     2,642      794      5,025     613     3,118    2,555     15,025
Net transfer               (799)     333    (1,284)   (6,036)   (786)    1,051    (3,366)   (7,234)
Note: The table shows the three countries with the largest lending commitments in the region over the past two fiscal years (2001 and 2002). Numbers have been
rounded.
Table 6.7 World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and
Net Transfers in Middle East and North Africa,
Fiscal 1997-2002
(millions of dollars)
Yemen,
Tunisia          Republic of         Lebanon          Total region
Item                       2002   1997-2002  2002   1997-2002   2002   1997-2002   2002   1997-2002
IBRD and IDA commitments   253      1,188      78      741       109      519       554     5,465
Undisbursed balance        303       303      394      394       241      241     2,760     2,760
Gross disbursements        227      1,093      69      638        48      270       632     5,656
Repayments                 150       991       18       78        26       86       891     6,095
Net disbursements           77       102       51      560        22      184      (259)     (439)
Interest and charges        80       540        9       48        14       74       561     3,758
Net transfer                (3)     (438)      42      512         8      111      (821)   (4,196)
Note: The table shows the three countries with the largest lending commitments in the region over the past two fiscal years (2001 and 2002) Numbers have been
rounded
Chapter 6 About the World Bank  135



Tables
Table 6.8 Summaries of Operations Approved during
Fiscal 2002, Africa
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb       usS
BENIN
IDA Cotton Sector Reform Investment Credit will         RD     1/22/02  2012/2041    14.1      18.0
improve economic returns in the sector and allow farmers
greater participation in the design and implementation
of sector policies by giving local communities greater
responsibility in the decentralization process.
Total cost: $24.2 million.
IDA Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Investment Credit aims     HD      1/4/02  2012/2041    17.8      23.0
to curb the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and to mitigate
its impact. Assistance will be provided in HIV/AIDS prevention
and treatment, and social support systems will be established
for HIV-stricken families, caregivers, and HIV/AIDS orphans.
Total cost: $25.4 million.
BURKINA FASO
- IDA Urban Environment Supplemental Credit will help   UD     3/28/02  2012/2041    17.7      22.0
build 18 kilometers of roads, 58 decentralized waste-transfer
stations, and 4 kilometers of channeling of the Wemtinga
gully and landfill facilities to improve the quality of life for
the urban poor. Total cost: $23.1 million.
O IDA Basic Education Sector Investment Credit will     HD     1/22/02  2012/2041    25.6      32.6
enable 380,000 children to receive primary education and an
additional 60,000-80,000 women to enroll in literacy classes,
improving education for girls through literary programs
delivered by NGOs. Total cost: $96.2 million.
<> IDA Poverty Reduction Support Credit aims to maintain  PSG  8/23/01  2011/2041    36.0      45.0
macroeconomic stability and accelerated growth. The
population as a whole will benefit from improved
availability and efficient use of public resources for basic
public services by improved accountability and transparency
in budget management. Total cost: $45 million.
IDA HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Investment Credit      HD      7/6/01  2011/2041    17.3      22.0
aims to improve preventive activities and strengthen
capacity by providing care and treatment to benefit the
vulnerable groups, slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS and
alleviating the burden on individuals and households.
Total cost: $23.5 million.
BURUNDI
O IDA Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans        HD     6/27/02  2012/2042    29.1      36.0
Investment Credit will benefit orphans, women, and the
rural poor by improving access to prevention services and
treatment of opportunistic infections. The project also
provides sustained nutritional supplements for people living
with HIWAIDS. Total cost: $36.7 million.
CAMEROON
IDA SACIII-Fifth Dimension Credit-IDA Reflow           FPSD    6/24/02  2008/2038    4.2        5.5
CAPE VERDE
O> IDA HIV/AIDS Investment Credit will reduce the spread  HD   3/28/02  2012/2042     7.3       9.0
of HIV/AIDS and extend the productive life of people living
with AIDS through improved diagnosis, treatment, and care
for orphans and HIV-stricken families. Total cost: $9.6 million.
136     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                    theme'   approval  Maturities  SDRb       US$
IDA Structural Adjustment Credit will benefit the        PSG    12/13/01  2012/2042    11.6       15.0
population as a whole by providing budget support to
protect social expenditures and support the government's
stabilization program for private sector development.
Total cost: $31.6 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
O IDA Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Investment Credit will       HD    12/14/01  2011/2041    13.3       17.0
benefit over 260,000 people who are HIV-infected or
living with AIDS and curtail the spread of the epidemic
among vulnerable groups through access to voluntary
testing, behavioral changes, counseling and treatment, and
the provision of care and assistance. Total cost: $18 million.
CHAD
O IDA Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit will benefit  PSG    12/18/01  2012/2042    31.4       40.0
the population as a whole and aims to reduce poverty
through enhanced transparency in the use of public resources,
procurement, and the budget cycle, and sustainable growth
through reform of the cotton sector. Total cost: $48.9 million.
O IDA Second Population and AIDS Investment Credit        HD     7/12/01  2011/2041    19.6       24.6
will reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS and extend the productive
life of people living with AIDS by improving diagnosis,
treatment, and care for orphans and HIV-stricken families.
Total cost: $33.1 million.
COMOROS
O IDA Emergency Economic Recovery Credit will provide     EM     8/2/01   2011/2041     4.8        6.0
funding for urgent public expenditures needed to alleviate
distress among the poor and support the country's national
reconciliation process. Total cost: $6 million.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
O IDA Economic Recovery Credit will support the          PSG     6/13/02  2012/2042   360.4      450.0
government's efforts to foster private sector development
and increase the supply of public services. These reforms
center on improving public sector financial management
and restructuring public sector enterprises.
Total cost: $450 million.
O IDA Emergency Early Recovery Grant aims to strengthen  PSG     7/31/01     n.a.      40.0       50.0
public institutions to create and strengthen the capacity of
the Congolese people to implement donor-assisted projects
and provide assistance for the formulation of a strategic
framework for recovery. Total cost: $50 million.
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
O' IDA Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, and     UD      5/2/02   2012/2042    32.2       40.0
Living Conditions Improvement Credit focuses on
priority areas, including roads, railways, and social
infrastructure, to support the revival of the economy of the
Congo. It will address immediate economic and social needs
of the poor through the creation of income-generating
activities. Total cost: $40 million.
O IDA Transparency and Governance Capacity Building      PSG     2/7/02   2012/2042     5.6        7.0
Credit will increase efficiency, strengthening the capacity
of government agencies through new management
techniques. Resources will increase public investments in
the social and economic sectors. Total cost: $10.8 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank    137



Table 6.8 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Africa (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      uss
<, IDA Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration      SPRM    7/31/01  2011/2041    4.0        5.0
Credit will benefit approximately 10,000 excombatants
by providing access to income-generating activities and
boosting local economies through investment in the social
and economic sectors. Total cost: $5 million.
i> IDA Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit will  PSG  7/31/01  2011/2041    30.0      37.7
help restore transparency and better governance in the
management of public funds. Both domestic and foreign
private investments will be increased to revive and stabilize
the economy. Total cost: $37.5 million.
COTE D'IVOIRE
IDA Economic Recovery Investment Credit will benefit    RD     6/11/02  2012/2041   160.2     200.0
rural communities by increasing incomes and employment
opportunities, strengthening the private sector, and
ensuring access to primary education and health services
while strengthening local community participation in the
delivery of such services. Total cost: $200 million.
IDA Transport Sector Investment Credit-IDA Reflow      FPSD    1/10/02  2008/2038    9.2       12.0
ERITREA
e- IDA Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration      SPRM    5/16/02  2012/2042    48.1      60.0
Credit will help consolidate peace and contribute to the
economic recovery of the country by supporting the
country's demobilization and reinsertion program for up
to 200,000 soldiers. It aims to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of services delivery to demobilized soldiers.
Total cost: $60 million.
.y IDA Cultural Assets Rehabilitation Learning and     SDGI    7/6/01   2011/2041    4.0        5.0
Innovation Credit will help local communities revitalize
their economic and cultural life through conservation and
strengthening of management of public records.
Total cost: $5.4 million.
ETHIOPIA
IDA Structural Adjustment Credit aims at improving      PSG    6/18/02  2012/2042    96.2     120.0
the business environment and attracting foreign investors
by lowering transaction costs for private investors and
exporters. The reforms it supports are aimed at
strengthening the efficiency of the public sector and
improving the delivery of key public services.
Total cost: $120 million.
K4 IDA Food Security Credit aims at improving the       RD     5/30/02  2012/2042    68.1      85.0
production and management of crops and livestock, through
soil and water conservation, increasing off-farm employment
and income opportunities for households, and providing
improved nutrition for children and pregnant and lactating
mothers. Total cost: $110.2 million.
 IDA Cultural Heritage Learning and Innovation Credit  FPSD   4/17/02  2012/2041    4.1        5.0
will preserve ancient craft traditions and reestablish craft
making as a vital part of community and national economic
life. Assistance will be provided to improve links between
artisan producers and retailers, exporters, and shippers to
increase local craft sales opportunities and to support the
export trade. Total cost: $5.7 million.
138     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      USs
THE GAMBIA
IDA Gateway Adaptable Program Credit aims to            TI     2/28/02  2011/2041    12.4      16.0
expand private investment export-oriented production and
employment through the establishment of a self-sustaining
investment promotion that will attract foreign direct jobs,
thus transferring technology to the local population in the
Banjul area. Total cost: $18.1 million.
O IDA Capacity Building for Economic Management         EM     7/26/01  2011/2041    12.0      15.0
Investment Credit will help the government maintain
macroeconomic stability by implementing economic policy
and better tax systems, and allocating public funds to
priority areas. Total cost: $16.5 million.
GHANA
IDA Third Economic Reform Support Credit-IDA Reflow    FPSD    12/11/01  2011/2041   0.4        0.5
o IDA Third Economic Reform Support Operation Credit   FPSD    7/26/01  2011/2041   87.7      110.0
will improve the share of producer prices for cocoa, the
main income for 1 million rural families, and the government's
ability to restore macroeconomic stability by reducing the
debt burden and strengthening the management and
control of public expenditures. Total cost: $110 million.
4 IDA Road Sector Development Investment Credit will   FPSD    7/26/01  2011/2041   175.3     220.0
benefit both commercial and social road users by giving
improved all-weather access to markets and services, while
reducing road construction and maintenance operations.
Total cost: $1.2 billion.
GUINEA
IDA Third Water and Sanitation Supplemental Credit     ENRM    8/23/01  2011/2041   20.0       25.0
will improve sanitation and reduce water-borne diseases
among children. By reducing pollution it will protect the
marine ecosystem and restore beaches and the urban
coastline. Total cost: $27.5 million.
4 IDA Education for All Adaptable Program Credit will benefit  HD  7/24/01  2012/2041  55.7    70.0
children aged 3-6 by providing increased access to primary
schooling in rural areas and by increasing resources for basic
education and literacy training. Total cost: $420.1 million.
O IDA Proposed Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit     PSG     7/24/01  2012/2041   39.3       50.0
will help reinforce the government's capacity to improve
public service delivery by strengthening governance and
contributing to restoring credibility to public finances.
Total cost: $50 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU
IDA Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development      FPSD    3/26/02  2012/2041   21.0       26.0
Investment Credit will provide better services and public
utilities to the poor. Increased foreign investment and
higher export revenues will improve the government's
balance of payments. Total cost: $31.4 million.
KENYA
IDA Economic and Sector Reform Credit-IDA Reflow       FPSD    6/24/02  2010/2040     1.2       1.5
& IDA Public Sector Management Technical Assistance     PSG    7/31/01  2011/2041    11.9      15.0
Credit will allow better targeting of public services and
implementation of policies. New systems and human resources
capacity will allow greater fiduciary responsibility and
reduce corruption in public service. Total cost: $20.5 million.                         (continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank   139



Table 6.8 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Africa (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb       uss
MADAGASCAR
O IDA Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Investment  HD     12/13/01  2012/2041   15.7      20.0
Credit aims to reduce the spread of STI/HIV/AIDS, extend
the life of people living with AIDS through the improvement
of diagnosis, treatment, and care for HIV-stricken families
and orphans. Total cost: $96.3 million.
IDA Second Private Sector Development Credit aims to   FPSD    8/28/01  2012/2041    19.0      23.8
improve access, reliability, and affordability of key utilities
such as transport, through private sector development.
An increased private sector role will improve services for the
poor by improving efficiency of the companies and creating
opportunities for new private entry and investment.
Total cost: $29.6 million.
MALI
IDA Third Structural Adjustment Credit will benefit     PSG    12/11/01  2012/2041   55.0      70.0
rural populations by reforming the cotton sector, reviving
growth, and improving living standards. It will support the
government's reforms and improve the balance of payments.
Total cost: $70 million.
K IDA Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations  RD     12/11/01  2012/2041   34.2      43.5
Adaptable Program Credit will increase incomes for rural
women by strengthening producer organizations, and will
improve household food security and well-being.
Total cost: $53.4 million.
MAURITANIA
O IDA Global Distance Learning and Innovation Credit    HD     11/21/01  2012/2041    2.7       3.3
will help Mauritania cross the digital divide and help the
public and private sector to better integrate into the
global economy by facilitating electronic transactions and
improving communications. Total cost: $5 million.
O> IDA Education Sector Development Adaptable           HD     10/25/01  2012/2041   39.1      49.2
Program Credit aims to provide better quality education
and will benefit 1 million primary, secondary, and higher
education students, providing better school facilities along
with improved learning materials and teaching methods.
Total cost: $323.7 million.
O> IDA Urban Development Adaptable Program Credit       UD     10/25/01  2011/2041   55.8      70.0
will benefit at least 541,600 people in urban areas. It aims
to improve living conditions through increased employment
opportunities and urban and land-management reform.
Total cost: $99.1 million.
MAURITIUS
IBRD Public Expenditure Reform Loan will assist         PSG     5/7/02  2007/2017     n.a.     40.0
government to implement activities under its economic
agenda. Activities will concentrate on improving
competitiveness, social development and social cohesion,
and protecting the environment. Total cost: $40 million.
IBRD Financial Sector Supervisory Authority            FPSD    12/4/01   -/2016      n.a.       1.8
Investment Credit will benefit consumers, operators, and
the international community by assisting the government
to form a financial sector commission and a stable
internationally competitive financial sector.
Total cost: $2.3 million.
140     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                    themea  approval   Maturities  SDRb       usS
MOZAMBIQUE
* IDA Higher Education Sector Investment and              HD     3/7/02   2012/2042    47.1       60.0
Maintenance Credit aims to expand graduate output
and will benefit approximately 15,000 students who will
be enrolled by the year 2006, through funding of higher
education and access to preuniversity training and financial
support. Total cost: $71.1 million.
O IDA Communication Sector Reform Technical              FPSD    11/27/01  2012/2041   11.6       14.9
Assistance Credit will benefit small- and medium-size
enterprises by providing access to modern
telecommunications, postal, and air transport services,
and reduced-cost communication services.
Total cost: $15.4 million.
IDA Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance        RD     7/19/01  2011/2041   127.4      162.0
Adjustable Program Credit, by linking rural areas with the
national road network, will allow rural populations better
access to markets, health and education facilities, and other
basic services. Total cost: $703.6 million.
o IDA Municipal Development Investment Credit will        UD     7/19/01  2011/2041    26.7       33.6
benefit households, businesses, and the urban poor. It aims
to strengthen the capacity of municipal governments in the
areas of management and finance by providing infrastructure
and services in five cities and employment for local workers.
Total cost: $42.1 million.
NIGER
- IDA Private Irrigation Promotion Investment Credit will  RD    3/19/02  2012/2041    31.3       38.7
benefit smallholder farmers by providing improved irrigation
systems, thus increasing agricultural capacity, rural employment,
farm income, and profitability. Total cost: $48.4 million.
< IDA Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit will foster   PSG    11/20/01  2011/2041    54.5       70.0
macroeconomic and financial stability and improve
management of public resources, benefiting poor
communities through better channeling of resources.
Total cost: $70 million.
NIGERIA
o' IDA Community-Based Urban Development Credit will      UD     6/06/02  2012/2037    88.1      110.0
benefit inhabitants of poor urban areas. By strengthening
the capacity of local government to use resources more
efficiently, it will provide improved health and security,
enhanced mobility, and reduced flooding for local
communities. Total cost: $137.5 million.
O IDA Health Systems Development Investment Credit        HD     6/06/02  2012/2037   101.8      127.0
will benefit people in rural areas, especially women and
children, by expanding access to improved basic health
services. The project also supports institutional reforms in
the health sector. Total cost: $153.2 million.
O IDA Transmission Development Investment Credit         FPSD    3/19/02  2012/2036    78.6      100.0
will benefit energy consumers and aims to ease the power
supply constraint on economic growth by restructuring the
power sector generating resources and improving power
supply in the country. Total cost: $113.5 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank    141



Table 6.8 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Africa (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb       USS
O IDA HIV/AIDS Program Development Credit aims to       HD      7/6/01  2011/2036    71.0      90.3
reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS and extend the life of people
living with AIDS by improving diagnosis, treatment, and
care for HIV-stricken families and orphans.
Total cost: $96.3 million.
RWANDA
o> IDA Demobilization and Reintegration Credit will    SDGI    4/25/02  2012/2042    20.0      25.0
help consolidate peace in the Great Lakes region and foster
reconciliation within Rwanda. It will help demobilize an
estimated 45,000 excombatants and support their transition
to civilian life by providing access to income-generating
activities and assisting their social and economic reintegration.
Total cost: $25 million.
SENEGAL
O IDA Nutrition Enhancement Adaptable Program           HD     3/14/02  2012/2042    11.8      14.7
Credit will allow approximately 170,000 children under
three and 50,000 pregnant women to have access to better
nutrition, sanitation, and food security through delivery of
nutrition services by NGOs and other local organizations.
Total cost: $20.2 million.
O IDA HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Investment        HD      2/7/02  2012/2041    23.6      30.0
Credit aims to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS transmission
among high-risk groups by supporting civil society and
community initiatives. The credit will provide improved
access to prevention and treatment programs.
Total cost: $32.2 million.
SIERRA LEONE
o> IDA HIV/AIDS Response Investment Credit aims to      HD     3/26/02  2012/2041    12.1      15.0
reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence and mitigate the impact of
persons infected or affected by HIV/AIDS by facilitating
activities among public and private organizations and
communities. The credit will provide improved care for
people living with HIV/AIDS. Total cost: $15.3 million.
+ IDA Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery      FPSD    12/13/01  2012/2041   39.4      50.0
Credit will help sustain peace and security in the country,
benefiting the population as a whole by providing
government resources to finance priority public expenditures,
and reforms to attract private investment.
Total cost: $50 million.
TANZANIA
* IDA Forest Conservation and Management Investment    ENRM    6/26/02  2012/2041    24.6      31.1
Credit will benefit rural households and jobseekers who
depend on woodlands and forests. It will establish a
framework for sustainable management and protection of
forests with private sector involvement in plantation
management and development. Total cost: $40 million.
O IDA Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Credit will     RD     3/26/02  2012/2042    20.8      26.0
benefit approximately 650,000 people living in 250 rural
communities by providing access to improved water supply
and sanitation services. Total cost: $27.7 million.
IDA Programmatic Structural Adjustment                  PSG    2/12/02  2012/2040     0.5       0.6
Credit-IDA Reflow
142     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary   Date of              Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                          theme'    approval   Maturities    SDRb       uss
-O IDA Lake Victoria Environmental Management                 ENRM      12/13/01  2012/2041      4.0          5.0
Supplemental Credit will maintain raw water supply for
the lake, providing suitable quality for domestic use and
animal watering while reducing the extent and severity
of water hyacinth infestation. Total cost: $5.1 million.
O IDA Songo Songo Gas Development and Power                    FPSD     10/9/01   2011/2041    145.7        183.0
Generation Investment Credit will benefit 25 villages
along the pipeline route through provision of access to
electricity and clean water for inhabitants of Songo
Songo island. Total cost: $295.2 million.
<> IDA Primary Education Development Adjustment                 HD      10/9/01   2011/2041    119.1        150.0
Credit will benefit children, providing improved access to
schools and higher quality of education for teachers
through better working conditions and professional
development opportunities. Total cost: $150 million.
4- IDA Lower Kihansi Environmental Management                 ENRM      7/3/01    2011/2041      5.0          6.3
Technical Assistance Credit will support conservation
and management of the Kihansi Gorge ecosystem and
develop a coordinated and consistent legal and institutional
framework for environmental and water resources
management. Total cost: $6.3 million.
UGANDA
O IDA Energy for Rural Transformation Adaptable                RD     12/13/01   2012/2041     38.3         49.1
Program Credit will benefit rural households by providing
increased access to a reliable electricity supply, increasing
productivity and income. Total cost: $123.3 million.
O IDA A Makerere University Training Pilot Learning             HD      3/26/02   2012/2041      4.0          5.0
and Innovation Credit will improve the teaching-learning
environment by contributing to stronger local government
capacity and improved public service delivery in Uganda.
Total cost: $11 million.
O~ IDA Fourth Power Investment Credit will provide             FPSD      7/3/01   2011/2041     48.0         62.0
consumers in Uganda access to improved electricity supply.
The privatization of the power sector will assist the
government's poverty eradication program.
Total cost: $89.3 million.
O IDA Second Phase of the Road Development                      RD      7/3/01    2011/2041     50.9         64.5
Adaptable Program Credit will decrease travel time and
transport costs for road users in rural areas. Paving and
strengthening of roads will provide savings in vehicle
operating and infrastructure maintenance costs.
Total cost: $97 million.
ZAMBIA
IDA Fiscal Sustainability 5th Dimension-IDA Reflow             PSG      5/16/02   2010/2041      5.3          6.7
Total                                                                                        2,981.5      3,793.5
n.a Not applicable.
-Not available.
> Denotes various levels of civil society involvement in Bank-supported projects, from design to monitoring and evaluation of results.
Note. Numbers have been rounded.
a EM = economic management; ENRM = environment and natural resource management, FPSD = financial and private sector development;
HD = human development, PSG = public sector governance; RD = rural development; RL = rule of law; SDGI = social deve opment, gender, and iniclusion,
SPRM = social protection and risk management, TI = trade and integration; OD = urban development. See box 2.1.
b IDA funds are committed in SDRs (special drawing rights). In fiscal 2002 the exchange rate for SDRs was 1 SDR = $1.265.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank       143



iaDies
Table 6.9 Summaries of Operations Approved during
Fiscal 2002, East Asia and Pacific
Primary  Date of           Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                 theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      US$
CAMBODIA
IDA Economic and Public Sector Capacity Building      PSG    6/25/02  2012/2042    4.4        5.5
Technical Assistance Credit will aim to provide public
services to benefit the population. Capacity building for
select government officials will enable them to carry out
essential development tasks, including the establishment
of a global development learning network center.
Total cost: $5.8 million.
O~ IDA Land Management and Administration            ENRM    2/26/02  2012/2042    19.3      24.3
Investment Credit will issue secure land titles to
approximately 5 million people in 10 provinces and
Phnom Penh Municipality. Total cost: $33.9 million.
+ IDA Demobilization and Reintegration Investment     PSG    8/23/01  2012/2041   14.7       18.4
Credit will assist the government's demobilization of 30,000
soldiers, helping their successful reintegration into civilian
life by providing socioeconomic assets, health care assistance,
and training opportunities. Total cost: $42 million.
CHINA
O IBRD Hubei Hydropower Development in Poor Areas     FPSD   6/25/02  2008/2022    n.a.     105.0
Investment Loan will benefit four poor counties through
development of four small and medium hydropower plants
for sale to the provincial grid, facilitating economic growth
and improving the electricity sector. Total cost: $222.4 million.
* IBRD Inner Mongolia Highway Investment Loan aims    FPSD    6/6/02  2008/2022    n.a.     100.0
to accelerate economic growth and improve living standards
for the low-income population by improving cost-effectiveness
and safety of transport infrastructure and supporting the
social and economic development of the region.
Total cost: $268.7 million.
O IBRD Sustainable Forestry Development Investment   ENRM    4/16/02  2009/2018    n.a.      93.9
Loan aims to benefit about 2.75 million persons, mostly
women and minority groups, by promoting a viable,
participatory, and locally managed system for conservation
management and the sustainable use and development of
forests. Natural forests and biodiversity will be protected.
Total cost: $230.6 million.
O~. IBRD Tuberculosis Control Investment Loan will     HD     3/21/02  2010/2022   n.a.     104.0
benefit 688 million people in 16 provinces by reducing
tuberculosis mortality through a national tuberculosis control
program providing free diagnosis to all and free treatment
to the infectious patients. Total cost: $242.3 million.
* IBRD National Railway Investment Loan will widen    FPSD    1/29/02  2007/2022   n.a.     160.0
an existing railway line between Baoji and Lanzhou in
northwest China and support the reform of China Railways,
benefiting some of the poorest communities in China.
Total cost: $1.3 billion.
144     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      usS
INDONESIA
O IBRD Global Development Network Learning and          HD     6/28/02  2008/2022    n.a.       2.7
Innovation Loan will test the effectiveness and sustainability
of global development learning. Distance learning and
communications technologies will expand access to
development information and university programs in four
centers. Total cost: $3.6 million.
O IBRD/IDA Second Urban Poverty Investment              UD     6/11/02  2008/2022    n.a.      29.5
Loan/Credit' aims to improve financial, social, and            6/11/02  2012/2037    55.7      70.5
infrastructure services to the urban poor through increased
cooperation between government and community
organizations and giving the poor a voice in public
decisionmaking. Total cost: $126.9 million.
4 IBRD Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Investment   FPSD    12/11/01  2007/2021   n.a.     200.0
Loan will allow 22 million people to benefit from economic
growth and improved social welfare through preservation
of roads, improved traffic safety, and decentralization
planning. Total cost: $264 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
IDA Financial Management Adjustment Credit will        FPSD    6/25/02  2012/2042    13.5      17.0
benefit the financial sector through improved public
expenditure management, and state-owned enterprise
reform and development. The credit complements and
supports the Financial Management Capacity Building
Investment Credit. Total cost: $17 million.
IDA Financial Management Capacity Building             FPSD    6/25/02  2012/2042    6.8        8.5
Investment Credit will assist the government's
implementation of reform in the financial sector by
providing improved public expenditure management,
and state-owned enterprise reform and development.
The credit complements and supports the Financial
Management Adjustment Credit. Total cost: $9.5 million.
,' IDA Poverty Reduction Fund Investment Credit will   SPRM    6/25/02  2012/2042    15.3      19.3
benefit communities in approximately 22 targeted poor
districts through the development of community public
infrastructure, improved access to services, and
empowerment in decisionmaking processes.
Total cost: $21.7 million.
MONGOLIA
IDA Financial Capacity Development Investment          FPSD    6/11/02  2012/2041    4.0        5.0
Credit will benefit the banking sector and aims to enhance
financial intermediation through credit risk management
of private banks, modernization of payment systems,
and a controlled process of savings bank resolution.
Total cost: $5.5 million.
4 IDA Sustainable Livelihoods Adaptable Program         RD     6/11/02  2012/2042    15.0      18.7
Credit aims to benefit poor and vulnerable households
nationwide by supporting the shift in the national
antipoverty strategy and investing in pastoral risk
management, microfinance outreach, local initiatives,
and program management. Total cost: $22.1 million.
(contmiued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank   145



Table 6.9 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, East Asia and Pacific (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      usS
O IDA Legal and Judicial Reform Investment Credit       RL     12/21/01  2012/2041   4.0        5.0
aims to promote a transparent and effective legal and
judicial system through the design and testing of new
tools giving better access to information, the creation of
specialized courts, and improved legal education.
Total cost $5.6 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
IBRD Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation               FPSD    6/6/02   2008/2022    n.a.      40.0
Investment Loan will benefit approximately 1.3 million
people by providing improved transport services
through maintenance of roads, rehabilitation of roads,
and replacement and rehabilitation of bridges.
Total cost: $59.2 million.
, IBRD Forestry and Conservation Investment Loan       ENRM    12/18/01  2010/2021   n.a.      17.4
will benefit forest landowners, local people, and government
by enabling conservation of Papua New Guinea's forest
resources through biodiversity protection and carbon
sequestration. Total cost: $39.3 million.
PHILIPPINES
* IBRD Second Social Expenditure Management             PSG     6/4/02  2010/2019    n.a.     100.0
Investment Loan aims to promote transparent
governance in the three social sector departments-education,
health, and social welfare-with the oversight and support of
the department of budget and management providing
inputs to such services. Total cost: $115.4 million.
'0 IBRD Local Government Unit Urban Water and          FPSD    10/18/02  2010/2021    n.a.     30.0
Sanitation Adaptable Program Loan is the second phase
of an adaptable program loan to assist government and
privately managed water utilities to operate commercial
water and sanitation services to 250 towns and cities.
Total cost: $30 million.
TONGA
<v IDA Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management       SPRM    5/30/02  2012/2042     4.7       5.9
Investment Credit aims to strengthen emergency risk
management and improve the standard of living of those
affected by providing shelter to the poor and homeless
and increasing resilience to natural hazards.
Total cost: $5.6 million.
VIETNAM
IDA System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization,       FPSD    6/25/02  2012/2042   177.9     225.0
and Renewables Investment Credit aims to contribute to
poverty alleviation in rural areas by improving power system
services and access to energy for the poor. Greenhouse gas
emissions will decrease with the use of renewable resources.
Total cost: $352.4 million.
O IDA Second Rural Finance Financial Intermediary       RD     5/30/02  2012/2042   160.2     200.0
Investment Credit will benefit and provide credit to
approximately 90,000 small businesses and farm households.
Better financial services in rural areas will result in job
creation and increased incomes among the poor.
Total cost: $298.2 million.
146     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary     Date of                 Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                                   themea     approval     Maturities      SDRb        usS
O IDA Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Investment                      HD       4/16/02     2012/2042       30.8          38.2
Credit will benefit approximately 30 million people in
21 provinces by providing safe blood transfusion services
in four regional blood transfusion centers.
Total cost: $47.5 million.
IDA Primary Teacher Development Investment Credit                      HD       12/20/01    2012/2041       15.6          19.8
will benefit 0.75 million primary pupils in 10 provinces in
Vietnam by providing better educational facilities and
improved training and professional development for 23,000
teaching professionals. Total cost: $35.7 million.
O IDA Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction                               RD       10/25/01    2012/2041       87.9         110.0
Investment Credit will benefit 1 million rural poor providing
education, public health, agricultural productivity, drinking
water, and improved transport and marketing services.
Total cost: $132.5 million.
Total                                                                                                        629.8       1,773.6
n.a. Not applicable
O Denotes various levels of civil society involvement in Bank-supported projects, from design to monitoring and evaluation of results.
Note: Numbers have been rounded.
a. EM = economic management, ENRM = environment and natural resource management; FPSD = financial and private sector development;
HD = human development; PSG = public sector governance; RD = rural development; RL = rule of law; SDGI = social development, gender, and inclusion;
SPRM = social protection and risk management; TI = trade and integration; UD = urban development. See box 2.1.
b. IDA funds are committed in SDRs (special drawing rights). In fiscal 2002 the exchange rate for SDRs was 1 SDR $ 51 265
c "Blend" loan/credit.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank             147



Tables
Table 6.10 Summaries of Operations Approved during
Fiscal 2002, South Asia
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   themea  approval  Maturities  SDR'      uss
AFGHANISTAN
O~' IDA Emergency Community Empowerment and Public     SDGI     6/6/02     n.a.      33.7      42.0
Works Grant underpins the government's National Solidarity
Program bringing assistance to communities focusing on
employment creation in rural areas for excombatants and
Afghans returning home, having fled drought and conflict.
Small rehabilitation works aim to boost economic activities.
Total cost: $42 million.
O IDA Emergency Education Rehabilitation and            HD      6/6/02     n.a.      12.1      15.0
Development Grant focuses on learning and skills
development for excombatants, war widows, and women,
supporting rehabilitation of universities and colleges,
education policy and planning, and the establishment of a
distance learning center. Total cost: $15 million.
IDA Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Grant      SDGI     6/6/02     n.a.      26.5      33.0
will support rehabilitation of urgently needed water supply
and sanitation in secondary cities, sanitation in Kabul, and
basic electricity for all cities, including Kabul. Urban public
works will also generate short-term employment opportunities
benefiting the urban population. Total cost: $33 million.
IDA Emergency Public Administration Grant will assist   PSG     4/4/02     n.a.       8.1      10.0
the government with key public administration functions,
such as procurement, financial management, and auditing,
so that public resources can be effectively used to rebuild
and develop the war-ravaged country. Total cost: $10 million.
BANGLADESH
O- IDA Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy       RD     6/25/02  2012/2042   153.0      191.0
Development Investment Credit will expand access to
environmentally sound energy in remote communities,
benefiting nearly 700,000 households and small businesses.
Total cost: $298.3 million.
IDA Financial Services for the Poorest Learning and    FPSD    6/19/02  2012/2042     3.9       5.0
Innovation Credit aims to find models to reduce poverty
through innovative delivery mechanisms, to extend
microfinancial services to those who live on safety nets and
charities, and to help them to escape the poverty trap.
Total cost: $6 million.
IDA Public Procurement Reform Credit aims to reduce     PSG     5/2/02  2012/2042     3.6       4.5
corruption and increase efficiency in procurement of public
goods, works, and services. Reform in procurement rules,
procedures, and management should ensure that public
resources are utilized properly for the benefit of the country.
Total cost: $4.9 million.
- IDA Second Female Secondary School Assistance         HD     3/12/02  2012/2042    96.4      120.9
Investment Credit will increase enrollments and improve
education in secondary schools. Up to 1.45 million girls will
benefit from tuition assistance and outreach to rural areas.
Total cost: $144.6 million.
148     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                  themea  approval  Maturities  SDRb       usS
INDIA
o IBRD/IDA Mumbai Urban Transport Investment            UD     6/18/02  2008/2022    n.a.     463.0
Loan/Credit' plans to ease traffic congestion in Mumbai        6/18/02  2012/2037   62.5       79.0
and to enhance suburban rail capacity and service quality
by improving road traffic conditions and by resettling almost
20,000 poor families away from hazardous squatter areas
close to railway lines. Total cost: $945 million.
IDA Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction        SPRM     5/2/02  2012/2037  356.0      442.8
Credit, the second phase of the ongoing Gujarat Emergency
Earthquake Reconstruction Program, is aimed at completing
ongoing reconstruction and enhancing future disaster
preparedness. Total cost: $503.7 million.
O' IDA Karnataka Community-Based Tank Management        RD     4/25/02  2012/2036   80.0       98.9
Investment Credit aims to reduce poverty by supporting a
local approach to manage water resources in poor rural
communities by returning the capacity and responsibility
for water tank development to villagers.
Total cost: $125 million.
O IBRD Kerala State Transport Investment Loan will      UD     3/14/02  2007/2021    n.a.     255.0
enhance road capacity and provide targeted safety programs
designed to boost both safety and efficiency of Kerala's
roads, benefiting local populations. Total cost: $336 million.
O IDA Mizoram State Roads Investment Credit will       FPSD    3/14/02  2012/2036   47.5       60.0
improve road capacity, quality, and safety by rehabilitating
and maintaining state roads, benefiting an estimated
70 percent of the population. Total cost: $70 million.
IBRD/IDA Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform                 PSG    3/14/02  2007/2022    n.a.     125.0
Investment Loan/Credit'will support a far-reaching             3/14/02  2012/2036   101.0     125.0
program of economic and structural reforms already
underway in this state. Total cost: $250 million.
IBRD/IDA Second Karnataka Economic Restructuring        PSG    3/14/02  2007/2022    n.a.      50.0
Investment Loan/Credit' is the second in a series designed     3/14/02  2012/2036   40.5       50.0
to assist the ongoing reform agenda that will benefit
communities. There are four main components: fiscal
and public expenditure reforms, administrative reforms,
private sector development, and poverty monitoring.
Total cost: $100 million.
* IDA Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Investment   RD     2/19/02  2012/2036   110.0     140.0
Credit will benefit 250,000 farm families, providing more
sustainable development and use of limited water resources,
particularly through irnproved management of the irrigation
sector. Total cost: $180.2 million.
IDA Uttar Pradesh Water Sector Restructuring          RD     2/19/02  2012/2036   117.0     149.2
Investment Credit will benefit 22,000 rural families
through fundamental reforms in the water resources
management and irrigation sector. Total cost: $173.7 million.
IDA Second Karnataka Rural Water Supply and            ENRM    12/18/01  2012/2036  119.0     151.6
Sanitation Investment Credit will benefit 4 million
people in rural areas through access to cleaner water,
improved sanitation, and better hygiene practices.
Total cost: $193.4 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank   149



Table 6.10 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, South Asia (continued)
Primary    Date of                Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                              theme'    approval    Maturities     SDR'        US$
NEPAL
l IDA Telecommunications Sector Reform Investment                  FPSD     12/11/01    2012/2041      17.5         22.6
Credit will strengthen the policy and regulatory capacities
of the government and increase access to telecommunication
services, which will benefit approximately 25 percent of all
rural communities. Total cost: $24.6 million.
PAKISTAN
IDA Second Structural Adjustment Credit will support                EM       6/11/02    2012/2037     395.2        500.0
the implementation of Pakistan's reform program and debt
reduction strategy and provide balance of payments support
through a number of governance improvements and
increased expenditures on social services delivery, such as
education and health care. Total cost: $500 million.
IDA Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization                 FPSD     10/23/01    2012/2036     239.5        300.0
Investment Credit will benefit the banking sector and
will assist the three nationalized commercial banks to
restructure themselves in preparation for privatization in
order to develop a competitive banking system.
Total cost: $540 million.
SRI LANKA
o>IDA Renewable Energy for Rural Economic                           RD       6/20/02    2012/2042      59.3         75.0
Development Investment Credit will improve the quality
of rural life. Private power generation, using renewable
energy resources, will provide direct electricity access to
100,000 households and 1,000 rural small and medium
enterprises and public institutions.
Total cost: $133.7 million.
Total                                                                                               2,082.3      3,508.5
n a Not applicable.
.0 Denotes var ous eves of civil society involvement in Bank-supported projects, from des gn to monitoring and evaluation of results.
Note, Numbers have been rounded
a. EM = economic management, ENRM = environment and natural resource management; FPSD = financial and private sector development;
HD = human development, PS(. = public sector governance, RD = rural development; RL = rule of law, SDGI = social development, gender, and inclusion;
SPRM = social protection and risk management; TI = trade and integration; UD = urban development. See box 2 1.
b IDA funds are committed in SDRs (special drawing rights). In fiscal 2002 the exchange rate for SDRs was 1 SDR = $1 265
c 'Blend" loan/credit
150       The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Tables
Table 6.11 Summaries of Operations Approved during
Fiscal 2002, Europe and Central Asia
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb       USS
ALBANIA
IDA Road Maintenance Investment Credit will benefit   RD     6/27/02  2012/2042    13.5      17.0
the poor and aims to reduce transport costs, reduce accident
rates, and provide better accessibility to rural areas and
essential social services through improved efficiency in the
management and maintenance of the rural road network.
Total cost: $20.9 million.
IDA Financial Sector Adjustment Credit supports the    FPSD    6/20/02  2012/2042    12.0      15.0
government's financial sector reform program. It consists
of three broad components: continued reform of the
banking sector; enhancement of bankruptcy and debt
resolution framework; and reform of the nonbank sector.
Total cost: $15 million.
IDA Poverty Reduction Support Credit will support      SPRM    6/20/02  2012/2042    16.0      20.0
the government's growth and poverty reduction strategy.
It supports a package of innovative cross-cutting public
sector reforms, as well as priority measures to improve
service delivery and social safety net effectiveness.
Total cost: $20 million.
IDA Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring      FPSD    6/20/02  2012/2042   24.0       29.9
Investment Credit aims to achieve significant improvement
in the operational effectiveness of the power sector through
electricity loss reduction, billing enforcement, and price
rationalization measures, benefiting low-income families in
both rural and urban areas. Total cost: $35.1 million.
O' IDA Pilot Fishery Development Investment Credit      RD     2/28/02  2012/2041    4.4        5.6
will increase the economic and environmental sustainability
of marine and lake fisheries through improved sector
management, benefiting nearly 6,500 fishermen, their
families, and suppliers by enforcing co-management of
local fisheries. Total cost: $6.7 million.
ARMENIA
O IDA Natural Resources Management and Poverty         ENRM     6/4/02  2012/2042    6.7        8.3
Reduction Investment Credit aims to promote adoption of
sustainable resource management practices and alleviation
of rural poverty in the Tavoush and Gegharkunik districts of
Northern Armenia, benefiting about 273,000 people in
100 villages. Total cost: $13.4 million.
IDA Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation          TI     4/16/02  2012/2042    0.8        1.0
Learning and Innovation Credit aims at testing the
responsiveness for prospective investment and exports
through the establishment of a lead agency that would
streamline transaction processing and implement a
promotion strategy. Total cost: $1.3 million.
IDA Enterprise Incubator Learning and Innovation       FPSD    11/29/01  2012/2041   3.9        5.0
Credit aims to reduce poverty and improve economic
growth by unlocking the institutional rigidities that
hinder the development of Armenia's human capital,
particularly as it relates to the business environment.
Total cost: $7.6 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank   151



Table 6.11 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Europe and
Central Asia (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      USS
O' IDA Irrigation Development Investment Credit         RD     8/30/01  2011/2041    19.8      24.9
will enhance profitability and sustainability of irrigated
agriculture for 30,000 private farming households through
incentives for stakeholders and institutional reforms.
Total cost: $30.8 million.
AZERBAIJAN
IDA Second Institution Building Technical Assistance    PSG    6/18/02  2012/2037    7.5        9.5
Credit will benefit taxpayers and citizens by providing
technical assistance focusing on transparency and
accountability in public financial management, and
strengthening the tracking of poverty-reducing public
expenditures and their impacts. Total cost: $13.4 million
IDA Second Structural Adjustment Credit aims to        PSG     3/12/02  2012/2037   48.4       60.0
bolster the government's intensification of reform efforts
over the past two years to stimulate balanced economic
growth, job creation, and poverty reduction.
Total cost: $60 million.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
o IDA Solid Waste Management Investment Credit will    ENRM    6/20/02  2012/2037    14.3      18.0
benefit more than 800,000 people by improving access
to environmentally sustainable and cost-effective solid waste
management services. Total cost: $21 million.
IDA Business Environment Adjustment Credit will        FPSD    5/30/02  2012/2037    35.3      44.0
support the government's reforms to improve the investment
climate, attract domestic and foreign investment, and
remove barriers to business entry, operation, and exit,
resulting in a more dynamic private sector, job creation,
and improved living standards. Total cost: $44 million.
IDA Road Management and Safety Investment              FPSD    3/28/02  2012/2036    24.2      30.0
Credit will benefit all road users by improving traffic
flow and reducing accidents through the rehabilitation
of poor quality roads and support of private sector growth
and employment. Total cost: $41.5 million.
IDA Private Sector Credit Financial intermediary       FPSD    2/28/02  2012/2036     8.0      10.0
Loan will promote the development of the private sector
by improving access to bank loans and other finances,
benefiting private enterprises and banks.
Total cost: $16 million.
CROATIA
o IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan aims to improve the  SPRM    12/4/01  2007/2016    n.a.     202.0
competitiveness of the economy through managed policy,
fiscal discipline, strengthened market institutions, a flexible
labor market and strengthened social protection.
Total cost: $202 million.
GEORGIA
IDA Health Project Supplemental Credit will benefit     HD     8/28/01  2011/2041     2.2       2.7
women and children, and aims to improve access to and
quality of health care for the population through quality
care and regulation of public and private workers.
Total cost: $2.8 million.
152     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      USS
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
O IDA Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Investment Credit  RD  12/4/01  2012/2041    12.0      15.0
will improve hygiene and sanitation for approximately
350,000 people in the Issyk-Kul, Naryn, and Talas Oblasts
by increasing access to potable water. Total cost: $24.6 million.
LATVIA
O IBRD Housing Project Learning and Innovation Loan    FPSD    4/25/02  2007/2019    n.a.       2.0
aims to introduce households, housing associations, and
financial institutions to financing mechanisms, to determine
whether those qualified will use the new mechanisms to
finance high return investments not currently funded by
private lenders. Total cost: $2.8 million.
LITHUANIA
IBRD Education Improvement Investment Loan aims to      HD     6/20/02  2007/2019    n.a.      25.4
improve the quality of teaching and learning in grades 5
through 10, by making efficient use of the financial, human,
and physical resources allocated to education, benefiting
around 600,000 students in grades 1 through 12.
Total cost: $45.4 million.
O IBRD Vilnius District Heating Investment Loan will    UD     8/23/01   -/2018      n.a.      17.1
benefit local communities through government efforts to
improve the quality of heating supply, focusing on lower
costs, reliability, and building level temperature control.
Total cost: $64.5 million.
MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
O IDA Community Development Investment Credit          SDGI    5/30/02  2012/2022    4.1        5.0
supports the government's postconflict development efforts
and aims to pilot small community-based initiatives. Local
and regional communities will benefit from reduced social
tensions and improved local social capital.
Total cost: $9.6 million.
IDA Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit aims     PSG    4/9/02   2012/2036    12.1      15.0
to boost sustained economic growth and improved service
delivery by strengthening key institutions, and accountability,
transparency, and efficiency in the use of public resources.
Total cost: $15 million.
IDA Emergency Economic Recovery Investment Credit       EM     12/13/01  2012/2021   11.6      15.0
will help restore economic activity disrupted by the civil
conflict by providing better access to critical imports by the
private sector. Total cost: $15 million.
MOLDOVA
IDA Rural Investment and Services Adaptable             RD     6/20/02  2012/2042    8.3       10.5
Program Credit aims to increase rural incomes and living
standards by promoting rural entrepreneurship, economic
diversity, and trade in the rural areas. It will improve access
for private farmers and rural businesses to legal ownership,
knowledge, and finance. Total cost: $19.7 million.
(continued nex.t page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank   153



Table 6.11 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Europe and
Central Asia (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   themea  approval  Maturities  SDRb      uss
IDA Third Structural Adjustment Investment Credit       PSG    6/20/02  2012/2042    24.1      30.0
will help the government set the basis for sustained economic
growth by focusing on better monitoring and evaluation
of poverty reduction measures as well as improved
performance in education and health care to benefit the
country's population as a whole. Total cost: $30 million.
O> IDA Structural Adjustment Credit-IDA Reflow         FPSD    11/20/01  2009/2034   4.0        5.0
POLAND
O IBRD Second Hard Coal Sector Adjustment Loan will    FPSD    8/2/01   2011/2011    n.a.     100.0
benefit miners by transforming the coal industry into a
competitive and profitable sector by assisting workers
leaving the industry to find employment, removing industry
payment of taxes, preparing the industry for privatization,
and improving environmental performance.
Total cost: $100 million.
ROMANIA
O IBRD Rural Development Adaptable Program Loan         RD     3/19/02  2006/2019     n.a.     40.0
aims to strengthen local governance by improving community
groups' handling of public investments and increasing the
availability of sustainable infrastructure in poor rural areas.
Total cost: $53.4 million.
O' IBRD Second Social Development Fund Adaptable       SDGI    12/20/01  2006/2018    n.a.     20.0
Program Loan aims to increase the social capital and civic
engagement of the rural poor in 250 communities through
implementation of social development projects.
Total cost: $28.7 million.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
IBRD Treasury Modernization Adaptable Program           PSG     6/6/02  2008/2019     n.a.    231.0
Loan aims to assist the government in establishing a fully
functioning treasury, enabling better cash management
and ensuring budget expenditures are in accordance with
the approved budget to benefit the public as a whole.
Total cost: $663 million.
IBRD Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform       PSG    1/29/02  2007/2018     n. a.    120.0
Adjustment Loan will support fiscal reform benefiting the
poor through effective targeting of social expenditures
and assistance. Total cost: $120 million.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
IBRD Social Benefits Reform Administration             SPRM    2/21/02  2006/2016     n.a.     23.5
Investment Loan aims to establish a cost effective and
efficient social protection system by improving management,
impacting approximately 3.5 million workers and social
assistance recipients. Total cost: $40.3 million.
IBRD Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment        FPSD    8/2/01   2007/2015    n.a.     177.3
Loan will support bank and enterprise reforms such
as restructuring of the banking system and substantial
improvements in the legal frameworks for bankruptcy and
corporate governance. Total cost: $177.3 million.
154     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millic.
Country/project name                                    theme'  approval   Maturities  SDRb       usS
TAJIKISTAN
IDA Pamir Private Power Credit will benefit consumers    FPSD    6/27/02  2012/2042     7.9       10.0
by ensuring a reliable supply of electricity in the Gorno
Badakshan Autonomous Oblast region of Tajikistan, in a
financially, environmentally, and socially sustainable manner
through private sector involvement. Total cost: $26.4 million.
IDA Dushanbe Water Supply Investment and                UD     6/18/02  2012/2042    13.5       17.0
Maintenance Credit will improve the safety, reliability,
efficiency, and financial viability of the water supply
services to the people of Dushanbe through rehabilitation
of existing facilities and institutional and financial
strengthening using improved financial and commercial
management practices. Total cost: $19.4 million.
' IDA Second Poverty Alleviation Investment Credit      SPRM     5/21/02  2012/2042    11.1       13.8
seeks to improve the living standards of the vulnerable and
the extreme poor. Between 400,000 and 700,000 people will
benefit from microprojects, microfinance services, and
community empowerment. Total cost: $18.3 million.
TURKEY
o IBRD Second Programmatic Financial and Public Sector   FPSD    4/16/02  2007/2017     n.a.     550.0
Adjustment Loan aims to help Turkey implement the next           4/16/02  2005/2007     n.a.     800.0
phase of its reform program and ensure that social programs
are adequately funded while supporting the government's
macroeconomic policy framework to create conditions for
financial stability and sustained growth.
Total cost: $1.4 billion.
* IBRD Social Risk Mitigation Sector Adjustment Loan      HD     9/13/01  2007/2016     n.a.     500.0
will help strengthen Turkey's social safety net through
investment to build social services and adjustment to
provide immediate support to the poorest populations
affected by the recent economic crisis.
Total cost: $635.5 million.
O IBRD Programmatic Financial and Public Sector          FPSD    7/12/01  2006/2018     n.a.     700.0
Adjustment Loan will support reforms aimed at restoring          7/12/01  2004/2006     n.a.     400.0
confidence in the banking system, preparing the sector for
European Union accession, and supporting urgent fiscal
measures to protect social spending. Total cost: $1.1 billion.
O IBRD Agricultural Reform Implementation                 RD     7/12/01  2006/2018     n.a.     600.0
Investment Loan will implement agricultural reform
which should benefit farmers through restructuring of
sales cooperatives. It should also reduce government
subsidies and marketing expenses, and finance payments
to redundant workers. Total cost: $662 million.
UKRAINE
O IBRD Private Sector Development Adaptable              FPSD    3/28/02  2010/2021     n.a.      30.0
Program Loan will encourage private sector development
by supporting the government in improving the regulatory
environment and providing training to business managers
that supports enterprise restructuring. Total cost: $38 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank    155



Table 6.11 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Europe and
Central Asia (continued)
Primary   Date of               Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                          themea    approval   Maturities    SDRb       uss
'+ IBRD Social Investment Fund Loan will develop social        SPRM     12/4/01   2007/2022       n.a.       50.2
and communal services to improve the living conditions for
poor communities and disadvantaged groups who have
suffered from economic and social transition.
Total cost: $70.1 million.
IBRD First Programmatic Adjustment Loan will support           PSG      9/20/01   2007/2021      n.a.       250.0
the government's economic development and reform
program for sustained economic growth, poverty reduction,
and improved environmental protection.
Total cost: $250 million.
UZBEKISTAN
IBRD/IDA Bukhara and Samarkand Water Supply and                 UD      3/19/02   2007/2022       n.a.       20.0
Sanitation Investment Loan/Credit' aims to improve                      3/19/02   2012/2037      15.9        20.0
the quality and financial sustainability of potable water
to about 650,000 people through rehabilitation of facilities
and institutional strengthening. Total cost: $62 million.
IBRD Rural Enterprise Support Investment Loan will              RD     12/20/01   2007/2021      n.a.        36.1
assist approximately 400,000 people to restructure collective
farms by supporting newly created private sector initiatives,
resulting in improved farm productivity and profitability.
Total cost: $43.5 million.
YUGOSLAVIA, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
IDA Trade and Transport Facilitation in South East              TI       6/4/02   2012/2022       5.5         6.8
Europe Investment Credit aims to meet two development
objectives. People in the trade industry and consumers and
producers will benefit from the reduction of nontariff
costs to trade and transport as well as the reduction of
smuggling and corruption at the border crossings.
Total cost: $11 million.
IDA Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit             FPSD     5/23/02   2012/2022      68.1        85.0
aims to develop a sound financial system by supporting the
government in its goal to accelerate and strengthen private
sector growth and thereby improving the investment climate.
Total cost: $85 million.
4 IDA Education Improvement Investment Credit                   HD       5/2/02   2012/2022       8.0        10.0
supports the government of Serbia's education reform
agenda. Half of the IDA funding will be in direct resource
transfers to children and teachers in about 650 primary
schools, directly benefiting approximately 25,000 teachers
and 300,000 students. Total cost: $12.2 million.
CJ IDA Structural Adjustment Credit aims to promote             PSG     1/29/02   2012/2021     55.5         70.0
reforms to ensure fiscal sustainability and provide financing
to bolster external reserves, to reduce poverty, and to
promote sustainable growth. Total cost: $70 million.
Total                                                                                           502.7     5,523.6
n a Not applicable
-Not available.
D Denotes various levels of civil society involvement in Bank-supported projects, from design to mon toring and evaluation of results.
Note. Numbers have been rounded.
a. EM = economic managemenr; ENRM = env ronmenrt and natural resource management: FPSD = financial and private sector developnrent.
HD = human developmentr PSG = public sector governance, RD = rural developmentr RL = rule of law, SDGI = social development, gender, and inclusion;
SPRM = social protection and risk marnagement, TI = trade and integration; UD = urban developmrent See box 2 1
b IDA fLInds are commritted in SDRs (special drawing rights). In fiscal 2002 the exchange rate for SDRs was 1 SDR = $1.265
c. "Blend" loan/credit
156      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Tables
Table 6.12 Summaries of Operations Approved during
Fiscal 2002, Latin America and the Caribbean
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      US$
ARGENTINA
o0 IBRD Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion  SDGI  11/8/01  2007/2016  n.a.       5.0
Learning and Innovation Loan aims to promote active
family participation as members of their communities, in
the labor market, and in Argentine society, by supporting
community organizations' and NGOs' subprojects.
Total cost: $6.7 million.
O4 IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan aims to improve the  PSG    8/28/01  2005/2016    n.a.     400.0
quality of life for the poor and vulnerable by supporting
reforms in health insurance regulation, tax administration,
and fiscal management, while maintaining vital social
services. Total cost: $400 million.
O' IBRD Santa Fe Provincial Reform Adjustment Loan is   PSG    7/19/01  2007/2016    n.a.     330.0
designed to support poverty alleviation and promote
reforms in public finance, health, education, and private
sector development in Santa Fe province, benefiting
low-income families and children. Total cost: $330 million.
BOLIVIA
Ot~ IDA Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Investment  FPSD   4/16/02  2012/2037   62.0       77.0
Credit will rehabilitate and maintain major and secondary
roads. Smallholder farmers will benefit from increased
trade between towns and access to markets, and reduced
travel times and fewer accidents. Total cost: $284 million.
IDA National Land Administration Supplemental        ENRM    9/18/01  2011/2036    4.8        6.0
Credit will benefit smallholder farmers by regularizing
land titles and allowing the government to complete
titling for about 3 million hectares in rural areas.
Total cost: $10.8 million.
BRAZIL
o IBRD Rural Poverty Reduction Investment Loan will     RD     6/27/02  2007/2017    n.a.      22.5
benefit about 80,000 rural families and aims to reduce
poverty through the provision of matching grants to
support community projects in water supply,
electrification, local road rehabilitation, health
posts, and schools. Total cost: $30 million.
IBRD Energy Sector Reform Investment Loan will benefit  FPSD   6/13/02  2012/2012    n.a.     454.6
the population by improving the investment climate and
promoting economic growth by supporting reforms such
as power tariffs, regulatory changes, and expansion of
access to power. Total cost: $454.6 million.
IBRD Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment   FPSD    6/13/02  2012/2012    n.a.     404.0
Loan will benefit the poor by providing access to financial
services and supporting Brazil's initiative to strengthen
its financial system. Total cost: $404 million.
O IBRD Fundescola IIIA (Third School Improvement)       HD     6/13/02  2007/2014    n.a.     160.0
Adaptable Program Loan will benefit thousands of
students by helping to improve the quality of Brazil's
public school education, focusing assistance in the
poorest regions, namely the Northeast, North, and
Central West. Total cost: $320 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank   157



Table 6.12 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Latin America
and the Caribbean (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      usS
4 IBRD Natural Resource Management and Rural Poverty   ENRM    4/25/02  2007/2017    n.a.      62.8
Reduction Loan will benefit about 105,000 farmers and
5,000 indigenous people by awarding matching grants
to pilot new technologies, innovate farming systems,
and promote environmentally friendly practices.
Total cost: $107.5 million.
O' IBRD Family Health Extension Adaptable Program Loan  HD     3/14/02  2007/2017    n.a.      68.0
expands publicly financed health services in 40 cities,
strengthening the capacity of the health sector to
evaluate family-based services, thereby improving health
in low-income households. Total cost: $136 million.
O~' IBRD Sergipe Rural Poverty Reduction Investment Loan  RD   1/29/02  2007/2017    n.a.      20.8
aims to improve the quality of life of 52,000 rural families
in the northeastern state of Sergipe through provision of
improved access to water, electricity, and other basic
services. Total cost: $28 million.
O IBRD Sao Paulo Metro Line Investment Loan will help   UD     1/22/02  2007/2017    n.a.     209.0
finance Line 4 of the So Paulo Metro, providing safe,
reliable transport for low-income people in the S5o
Paulo Metropolitan Region. Total cost: $934 million.
-0' IBRD Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport Investment Loan  UD  12/4/01  2007/2011     n.a.     85.0
will benefit the low-income population through the
support of development of an urban transport system,
rehabilitating existing commuter rail-lines and transfer
stations to provide efficient transport services.
Total Cost: $193.8 million.
IBRD Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan aims to  FPSD   9/4/01  2007/2016    n.a.      14.5
strengthen the financial sector by supporting diagnostic
studies, training, and systems installations to implement
financial sector reforms that enhance the stability of
Brazil's financial system. Total cost: $18.1 million.
<O IBRD Goias State Highway Management Adaptable       FPSD    8/23/01  2007/2016     n.a.     65.0
Program Loan aims to improve road infrastructure
by expanding, repairing, and helping to maintain
the main highway network benefiting the agricultural
industries, which rely on efficient road transport.
Total cost: $130 million.
CHILE
O~ IBRD Lifelong Learning and Training Investment Loan  HD     3/19/02  2010/2011     n.a.     75.8
supports Chile's initiative to provide basic, secondary, and
technical education, and training programs for adults,
especially the young unemployed and the working
poor, by reducing the social deficit in the provision of
lifelong education and training opportunities.
Total cost: $150.8 million.
O~ IBRD Public Expenditure Management Investment        PSG    2/19/02  2007/2017    n.a.      23.2
Loan will benefit the population as a whole by supporting
the government's initiative to improve the effectiveness
and transparency of public administration through
the establishment of integrated financial management
and resource allocation systems. Total cost: $33.5 million.
158     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                    theme'   approval  Maturities  SDRb       USS
COLOMBIA
O IBRD Productive Partnerships Support Investment Loan    RD     1/22/02  2010/2015     n.a.      32.0
will benefit communities in the rural areas and aims to
reactivate the rural economy through partnership
schemes involving communities and the private sector.
Total cost: $52.3 million.
O IBRD Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan supports fiscal  PSG    12/18/01  2010/2015    n.a.     400.0
reform by helping the government increase efficiency
while also protecting social spending as reforms are
implemented. Total cost: $400 million.
4 IBRD Judicial Conflict Resolution Improvement Learning  RL     11/8/01  2007/2018     n.a.       5.0
and Innovation Loan aims to develop conflict-resolution
procedures in the civil court system, benefiting the
poor who are most affected by prevailing violence.
Total cost: $6.7 million.
O IBRD Water Sector Reform Assistance Investment Loan     UD    10/25/01  2009/2016     n.a.      40.0
will support Colombia's reform of municipal water utilities
by incorporating the private sector into the management
of water services and by providing financial support to
ensure services to underserved areas benefiting
700,000 people. Total cost: $70 million.
O IBRD Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development       SDGI    9/27/01  2011/2013     n.a.       5.0
Learning and Innovation Loan will increase the role of
community organizations in managing the development
program and strengthening local and regional institutions.
Total cost: $6.4 million.
COSTA RICA
4 IBRD Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization      HD     7/12/01  2008/2016     n.a.      17.0
Investment Loan supports an initiative to provide
high-quality health services through a modernization
and decentralization program that will benefit 4 million
Costa Ricans. Total cost: $23.5 million.
DOMINICA
IBRD/IDA Emergency Recovery Investment Loans/Creditsc    FPSD    3/7/02   2007/2016     n.a.       1.0
to Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and         3/7/02  2007/2036     1.9        2.2
St. Vincent and the Grenadines are helping the islands
revitalize the tourism industry, which was hurt by declining
travel after the events of September 11, through marketing
and promotional activities and ensuring access to imports
critical to the tourism sector. Total cost: $24.8 million.
ECUADOR
4 IBRD Agricultural Census and Information System         RD     4/25/02  2007/2022     n.a.       4.8
Technical Assistance Loan aims to strengthen social equity
by facilitating completion of Ecuador's agricultural census,
and enabling government and rural communities to
develop the agriculture sector. Total cost: $7.0 million.
IBRD Public Sector Financial Management Technical        PSG     3/26/02  2007/2021     n.a.      13.9
Assistance Loan supports Ecuador's effort to improve public
sector financial management by expanding the use of a
financial management system at all levels of government.
Total cost: $18.8 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank    159



Table 6.12 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Latin America
and the Caribbean (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                    theme'   approval  Maturities  SDRb       usS
IBRD Modernization and Rural Services Investment Loan    FPSD    11/20/01  2010/2021    n.a.      23.0
supports modernization of the country's electricity and
telecommunications services, extending coverage to
low-income consumers, improving quality of life and
creating jobs. Total cost: $40.4 million.
O IBRD Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development    SPRM     7/5/01   2009/2021     n.a.      25.2
Investment Loan will finance local initiatives to fight
poverty in rural communities, where it will help
approximately 60,000 people increase their incomes and
improve their quality of life. Total cost: $42 million.
EL SALVADOR
O IBRD Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health     HD     12/4/01  2007/2018     n.a.     142.6
Services Extension Loan will finance reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the most severely damaged of eight
hospitals and 113 of 361 health facilities, following two
earthquakes in early 2001. Total cost: $165.7 million.
GRENADA
IBRD/IDA Emergency Recovery Investment Loans/Credits'    FPSD    3/7/02   2007/2016     n.a.       1.1
to Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and         3/7/02  2012/2036     2.2        2.7
St. Vincent and the Grenadines are helping the islands
revitalize the tourism industry, which was hurt by
declining travel after the events of September 11,
through marketing and promotional activities and
ensuring access to imports critical to the tourism sector.
Total cost: $24.8 million.
GUATEMALA
IBRD Financial Sector Adjustment Loan will strengthen    FPSD    6/25/02    -/-         n.a.     150.0
Guatemala's investment climate and ability to withstand
financial shocks by supporting the country's legal framework
for banking, anti-money laundering, financial supervision,
and central banking. Total cost: $150 million.
IBRD Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan will     FPSD    6/25/02  2008/2018     n.a.       5.0
provide technical assistance to support financial sector
reform, close insolvent banks, and recapitalize weak
institutions and strengthen financial regulation. Access to
financial services for the overall population will alleviate
poverty and support economic growth. Total cost: $5 million.
IBRD Third Integrated Financial Management Technical     PSG     3/14/02  2008/2018     n.a.      29.8
Assistance Loan will support the government's
modernization of public sector financial management,
encouraging firms to strengthen prospects for economic
growth and efforts to reduce poverty.
Total cost: $33.2 million.
HONDURAS
O IDA Health System Reform Investment Credit will benefit  HD     5/7/02  2012/2042    21.8       27.1
low-income Hondurans by reforming the health system
and extending health care services to poor areas, reducing
levels of maternal, infant, and child mortality, and decreasing
the growth in HIV/AIDS. Total cost: $9.7 million.
O IDA Rural Land Management Investment Credit supports  ENRM     8/2/01   2007/2037     6.7        8.3
improvements in rural land management to increase
tenure security, productivity, and income for more than
100,000 poor rural households. Total cost: $15 million.
160      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb      usS
o IDA Sustainable Coastal Tourism Learning and Innovation  ENRM  7/25/01  2012/2041  4.0        5.0
Credit aims to create a basis for growth in local communities
by supporting sustainable tourism on Honduras' north coast,
and also addressing land security, HIV/AIDS, and marine
conservation. Total cost: $6 million.
JAMAICA
o IBRD HIV Prevention and Control Adaptable Program     HD     3/29/02  2007/2019    n.a.       15.0
Loan will benefit Jamaicans at risk of contracting AIDS
by supporting the government's program to reduce
transmission of the HIV virus, and providing treatment
and care to people living with HIV/AIDS.
Total cost: $16.5 million.
IBRD Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Structural       PSG    12/20/01  2007/2018   n.a.      75.0
Adjustment Investment Loan supports efforts to maintain
macroeconomic stability by facilitating recovery of key
industries while protecting the most vulnerable people.
Total cost: $150 million.
O IBRD Social Safety Net Investment Loan aims to improve  SPRM  9/4/01  2007/2019    n.a.      40.0
the quality of life for the poorest groups by supporting the
consolidation of several social assistance programs into a new
program targeted at the neediest children, youth, elderly,
and disabled. Total cost: $77.5 million.
MEXICO
* IBRD Tax Administration Institutional Development     PSG    6/18/02  2008/2017    n.a.      52.0
Technical Assistance Loan will help strengthen the federal
Tax Administration Service, enabling it to collect taxes and
carry out audits more effectively, while reducing its
operating costs in relation to tax revenues.
Total cost: $82 million.
IBRD Tax Reform Adjustment Loan will benefit tax payers  PSG   6/18/02  2012/2012    n.a.     303.0
and support Mexico's tax reform designed to spread the tax
burden more equally among people with similar income
levels, and to help sustain macroeconomic stability and
social programs by increasing federal tax revenue.
Total cost: $303 million.
O IBRD Basic Education Development Phase II Adaptable   HD     3/21/02  2007/2017     n.a.    300.0
Program Loan supports efforts to improve the quality and
expand coverage of basic education across the country,
targeting rural, indigenous, and marginal urban areas by
ensuring opportunity for all children to complete basic
education and by channeling resources to the most
disadvantaged students. Total cost: $531.1 million.
O IBRD Southeast Regional Private Sector Development   FPSD    9/27/01  2011/2011    n.a.       5.0
Learning and Innovation Loan seeks to support
microbusiness initiatives to strengthen the private
sector and fight poverty in the states of Campeche,
Yucatan, and Quintana Roo. Total cost: $10.6 million.
(continued next page)
Chapter 6 About the World Bank   161



Table 6.12 Summaries of Operations Approved during Fiscal 2002, Latin America
and the Caribbean (continued)
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb       uSS
NICARAGUA
* IDA Land Administration Investment Credit will benefit  ENRM  6/18/02  2012/2041   26.2      32.6
smallholder farmers and indigenous people through
improved security of land tenure by boosting investment
in agriculture, increasing incomes, and promoting
sustainable use of natural resources.
Total cost: $38.5 million.
PANAMA
o IBRD Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Loan aims  TI  7/31/01  2007/2016    n.a.      10.5
to reduce poverty by supporting reforms to strengthen
Panama's international competitiveness, trade negotiation
capacity, fiscal sustainability, and public sector efficiency.
Total cost: $13.5 million.
PARAGUAY
o IBRD Pilot Community Development Investment Loan     SPRM    3/21/02  2007/2018     n.a.      9.0
supports community development initiatives to reduce
poverty in rural areas and urban neighborhoods,
benefiting some 32,000 low-income households.
Total cost: $11.2 million.
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
IBRD Education Development Adaptable Program Loan will  HD     6/13/02  2007/2017     n.a.      5.0
benefit hundreds of students by financing construction of
a fully equipped secondary school, while also providing
training and instructional guides for teachers.
Total cost: $7 million.
IBRD Emergency Recovery Project Loans to Dominica,     FPSD     3/7/02  2007/2016     n.a.      4.4
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and
the Grenadines will help the islands revitalize the tourism
industry, which was hurt by declining travel after the events
of September 11, through marketing and promotional
activities and ensuring access to imports critical to the
tourism sector. Total cost: $24.8 million.
ST. LUCIA
IBRD/IDA Education Development Investment Loan/Credit'  HD     6/13/02  2007/2017     n.a.      6.0
will benefit about 1,400 adolescents by financing              6/13/02  2012/2037     4.8        6.0
construction of two new secondary schools, upgrading
existing facilities, developing new curricula, and training
teachers. Total cost: $19.2 million.
IBRD/IDA Emergency Recovery Investment Loans/Creditsc  FPSD     3/7/02  2005/2017     n.a.       1.9
to Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and       3/7/02  2012/2037     3.6        4.4
St. Vincent and the Grenadines are helping the islands
revitalize the tourism industry, which was hurt by declining
travel after the events of September 11, through marketing
and promotional activities and ensuring access to imports
critical to the tourism sector. Total cost: $24.8 million.
O IBRD/IDA Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance    ENRM    12/20/01  2007/2016    n.a.       1.3
Loan/Credit' aims to improve water and sewerage service        12/20/01  2012/2036    1.1        1.3
by transfering St. Lucia's water utility to private sector
management within a sound legal and regulatory
framework, improving the quality of life for residents.
Total cost: $8.4 million.
162     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary    Date of                Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                              theme'    approval    Maturities     SDR'        US$
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
IBRD/IDA Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management                SPRM      5/29/02    2007/2019       n.a.         3.0
Adaptable Program Loan/Credit'will benefit and                               5/29/02    2012/2037       2.4          2.9
protect residents from loss of life and assets due to natural
disasters by strengthening the country's ability to take
preventive action and effectively manage emergency
situations such as hurricanes. Total cost: $6.8 million.
IBRD/IDA Emergency Recovery Investment Loans/Credits'              FPSD      3/7/02     2007/2019       n.a.         1.0
to Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and                    3/7/02     2012/2037       1.9          2.2
St. Vincent and the Grenadines are helping the islands
revitalize the tourism industry, which was hurt by declining
travel after the events of September 11, through marketing
and promotional activities and ensuring access to imports
critical to the tourism sector. Total cost: $24.8 million.
URUGUAY
IBRD Third Basic Education Quality Improvement                      HD       4/25/02    2007/2017       n.a.        42-0
Investment Loan will extend the full-time urban school
model to about 51,000 additional students in poorer
regions, improving their academic results and reducing
repetition rates for children completing the first and
second grades. Total cost: $56 million.
o IBRD Foot and Mouth Disease Emergency Recovery                    RD       7/31/01    2006/2016       n.a.        18.5
Investment Loan aims to benefit approximately 50,000
livestock farmers by supporting Uruguay's efforts to
re-establish beef export markets, by eradicating foot-and-
mouth disease. Total cost: $24 million.
Total                                                                                                 143.4      4,365.9
n.a Not applicable
-Not available.
o Denotes various levels of civil society involvement in Bank-supported projects, from design to monitoring and evaluation of results
Nore. Numbers have been rounded.
a EM = eccinomic managemetit; ENRM - environment and natural resource maniagement; FPSD = financial and private sector development;
HD = human development, PSG = pub ic sector governance; RD = rural development, RL = rule of law; SDGI = social development, gender, and inclusion;
SPRM = social protection and iisk management, TI = trade and integration; UD = urban development See box 2.1
b. IDA funds are committed in SDRs (special drawing rights). In fiscal 2002 the exchange rate for SDRs was 1 SDR = $ 1.265.
c. "Blend" loan/credit.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank          163



Tables
Table 6.13 Summaries of Operations Approved during
Fiscal 2002, Middle East and North Africa
Primary  Date of            Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                   theme'  approval  Maturities  SDRb       Uss
ALGERIA
IBRD Mortgage Finance Technical Assistance Investment  FPSD    6/27/02   -/2018       n.a.      5.5
Loan will strengthen the environment for a well-functioning
mortgage market, through capacity building in the banking
system itself and technical assistance on legal and regulatory
matters. Total cost: $8.2 million.
IBRD Transport Technical Assistance Investment Loan    FPSD    8/23/01   -/2018      n.a.       8.7
aims to modernize and expand the transport system to
benefit the population by facilitating private participation,
rehabilitating railways, and strengthening government
capacity. Total cost: $11.3 million.
IBRD Financial System Infrastructure Modernization     FPSD    7/26/01   -/2017      n.a.      16.5
Investment Loan will provide basic financial services to
households and the private sector by facilitating interbank
payments systems and developing norms and standards.
Total cost: $18.2 million.
DJIBOUTI
0 IDA Health Sector Development Adaptable Program       HD      6/4/02  2012/2042    12.0       15.0
Credit aims to meet Millennium Development Goals for
reductions in maternal and child mortality through
improvement of maternal and child health services,
improved paramedical personnel, and improved availability
of medicines in health facilities. Total cost: $30 million.
IDA Fiscal Consolidation Adjustment Credit will         PSG    12/20/01  2012/2041    7.9      10.0
benefit new retirees and aims to ensure the sustainability
of pension funds by restoring their viability and strengthening
provisions of other public services. Total cost: $10 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
4 IBRD Higher Education Enhancement Investment Loan     HD     4/16/02  2007/2019     n.a.      50.0
aims to improve the quality of the higher education system
through legislative reform, institutional restructuring, and
establishment of independent quality assurance mechanisms
and monitoring systems. Total cost: $60 million.
JORDAN
IBRD Horticultural Exports Promotion and Technology     RD     6/27/02  2008/2019    n.a.       5.0
Transfer Learning and Innovation Loan aims to help
farmers increase horticultural exports to selected markets,
diversify horticultural exports to reduce volatility, and
increase participation and access of small and medium-scale
farmers through provision of market information and
support services. Total cost: $6.6 million.
LEBANON
4 IBRD Urban Transport Development Investment Loan      UD     6/13/02  2009/2015     n.a.     65.0
will benefit the urban population and provide the foundation
for an efficient transportation system for Beirut and its
metropolitan areas, through building a basic institutional
framework and through critical investments to maximize
the efficiency of the existing urban transport infrastructure.
Total cost: $115.2 million.
164     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Primary   Date of              Principal amount (millions)
Country/project name                                          theme'    approval   Maturities    SDRb        US$
O, IBRD Ba'albeck Water and Wastewater Investment             ENRM      6/4/02    2009/2015      n.a.        43.5
Loan will benefit lower-income groups by improving
access and coverage to satisfactory water supply and
wastewater services; developing and strengthening the
capacity of the water authorities; and promoting the
rational use of water through the introduction of
water meters. Total cost: $49.2 million.
MOROCCO
o IBRD Social Development Agency Investment Loan               SPRM     6/4/02    2008/2022      n.a.         5.0
will benefit poor communities and vulnerable groups by
testing new approaches for delivering enhanced social
services to poor rural areas and by organizing local
communities to take charge of implementing development
activities. Total cost: $15 million.
TUNISIA
IBRD Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustment                 FPSD    12/20/01   2002/2018      n.a.       252.5
Loan aims to create a stable macroeconomic and
streamlined business environment with increased
telecommunications competitiveness, and improved
efficiency of the insurance and financial sectors.
Total cost: $252.5 million.
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
O IDA Higher Education Learning and Innovation Credit          HD      6/18/02   2012/2042      4.1          5.0
aims to develop and pilot governance, finance, and quality
reform of higher education. Leadership and technical
training will be given to select government officials to
enable them to take the lead in developing a higher
education strategy. Total cost: $5.3 million.
IDA Health Reform Support Adaptable Investment                  HD      3/28/02   2012/2041     22.2         27.5
Credit will increase access for women and children to
maternal and child health services and improve the
efficiency and equity of the overall health system.
Total cost: $29.6 million.
0 IDA Second Taiz Municipal Development and Flood              UD      11/1/01   2012/2041     35.6         45.2
Protection Investment Credit will benefit inhabitants and
reduce loss and injury from seasonal flash flooding by
constructing flood zones, funding a resettlement plan, and
building capacity for local councils. Total cost: $50 million.
Total                                                                                           81.8        554.4
n.a Not applicable
-Not available
+ Denotes various levels of cisil society involvement in Bank-supported projects. from design to monitoring and eva uation of results.
Note: Numbers have been rounded.
a. EM = economic management; ENRM = environment and natural resource management; FPSD = financial and private sector development,
HD = human development; PSG = public sector governance, RD = rural development; RL = rule of law, SDGI = social development, gender, and inclusion;
SPRM = social protecton and risk management, TI = trade and Integration; UD = urbani development. See box 2 1
b. IDA funds are committed in SDRs (special drawing rights). In fiscal 2002 the exchange rate for SDRs was t SDR = $1 265
Chapter 6 About the World Bank       165



Tables
Table 6.14 World Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal 2002
(millions of dollars)
Country                  Operation                                             IBRD      IDA      Total
Poverty Reduction Support Credits
Albania                  Poverty Reduction Support Credit                                  20        20
Burkina Faso             Poverty Reduction Support Credit                                  45       45
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans and Credits
Brazil                   Second Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustmenit Loan                                      404               404
Turkey                   Second Programmatic Financial and Public Sector
Adjustment Loan                                      1,350             1,350
Ukraine                  Programmatic Adjustnment Loan                           250                250
Sector Adjustment Loans and Credits
Albania                  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                15        15
Bosnia and Herzegovina   Business Environment Adjustment Credit                            44       44
Brazil                   Energy Sector Reform Loan                               455                455
C6te d'lvoire            Transport Sector Adjustment and Investment
Credit (IDA Reflow)                                             12        12
Poland                   Second Hard Coal Sector Adjustmiient Loan               t00                100
Slovak Republic         Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustmenit Loan        177                177
Tanzania                 Primary Education Development Program Credit                     150       150
Tunisia                  Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustmenit Loan         253                253
Turkey                   Agricultural Reform Implementation Project Loan         600                600
Turkey                   Social Risk Mitigation Project Loan                     500                500
Yugoslavia, Federal
Republic of            Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                    85       85
Structural Adjustment Loans and Credits
Argentina                Structural Adjustment Loan                              400                400
Argentina                Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan                         330                330
Azerbaijan               Second Structural Adjustment Credit                               60        60
Cameroon                 Third Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA Reflow)                    6         6
Cape Verde               Structural Adjustment Credit                                      15        15
Chad                     Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                               40        40
Colombia                 Structural Fiscal Adjustment loan                       400                400
Congo, Democratic
Republic of            Economic Recovery Credit                                         450      450
C6te d'ivoire            Economic Recovery Credit                                         200       200
Croatia                  Structural Adjustment Loan                              202                202
Djibouti                 Fiscal Consolidation Credit                                       10        10
Ethiopia                 Ethiopia Structural Adjustment Credit                            120       120
Ghana                    Third Economic Reform Support Operation Credit                   110       110
Ghana                    Third Economic Reform Support Credit (IDA Reflow)                  0         0
Guatemala                Financial Sector Adjustment Loan                        150                150
Guinea                   Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                               50        50
India                    Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Program                  125      125       250
India                    Second Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan             50       50       100
166     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Country                      Operation                                           IBRD       IDA      Total
Structural Adjustment Loans and Credits (continued)
Jamaica                      Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan                 75                  75
Kenya                        Economic and Sector Reform Credit (IDA Reflow)                    1         I
Lao People's Democratic
Republic                  Financial Management Adjustment Credit                            17       17
Macedonia, forner Yugoslav
Republic of               Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit                        15       15
Mali                         Third Structural Adjustment Credit                               70        70
Mauritius                    Public Expenditure Reform Loan                         40                  40
Mexico                       Tax Reform Adjustment Loan                            303                303
Moldova                      Third Structural Adjustment Credit                               30       30
Moldova                      Structural Adjustment Supplemental Credit                         5         5
Niger                        Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit                             70        70
Pakistan                     Second Structural Adjustment Credit                             500      500
Russian Federation           Fiscal Federalism & Regional
Fiscal Reform Loan                                   120                120
Sierra Leone                 Second Economic Rehabilitation
and Recovery Credit                                            50        50
Tanzania                     Programmatic Structural Adjustment
Credit (IDA Reflow)                                             I         I
Yugoslavia, Federal
Republic of               Structural Adjustment Credit                                     70        70
Zambia                       Fiscal Sustainability Credit (IDA Reflow)                         7        7
Special Structural Adjustment Loan
Turkey                       Programmatic Financial and Public Sector
Adjustment Loan                                    1,100              1,100
Total                                                                             7,383    2,443     9,826
Note: Numrbers may not add to totals because of rounding.
Chapter 6 About the World Bank     167



Index
Note: b indicates boxes; f indicates figures; and t indicates tables.
A                                     Education For All (EFA), 40, 46, 63-64  H
Africa, 84-88                          Fast Track, 3                       Health, Nutrition, and Population Sector
adjustment commitments, 28t         Egmont Group, 75                         Strategy, 64-65
cofinancing in, 35                  Empowerment, poverty reduction and,   Health and other social services
education in, 46                       62                                  IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f
GDP growth in, 25                   Energy and mining                      IBRD lending for, 27f
gender gap in, 47                    IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f        IDA lending for, 27, 29f
lending to, 24, 27, 27f, 29f, 31f     IBRD lending for, 27f                project outcomes in, 56f
Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program, 65    IDA lending for, 29f                  project portfolio lending for, 54f
project outcomes in, 56f              project outcomes in, 55, 56f        Health Flagship, 41b
project portfolio lending to, 54f     project portfolio lending for, 54f  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
social protection funding, 66       Environmental & natural resource man-    Initiative, 3, 6, 28-29, 32f
Africa Capacity Building Foundation, 41b  agement                            Trust Fund, 3
African Development Bank, 35, 40-41, 50  evaluation, 52, 53                HIV/AIDS, 14, 24, 48, 63-66, 84, 86-87,
African Virtual University, 18, 40, 41b  IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31 f       96, 100, 104, 111
Agricultural growth, poverty reduction  IBRD lending for, 27f              Human development
and, 68                             IDA lending for, 29f                  economic and sector work in, 31
Agriculture, fishing, and forestry     project portfolio lending for, 54f    education agenda, 63-64
IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f      Environmental sustainability, 67-68    IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f
IBRD lending for, 27f               European Bank for Reconstruction and   IBRD lending for, 27, 27f
IDA lending for, 29f                   Development, 40-41                  IDA lending for, 29f
project outcomes in, 56f              development effectiveness assess-    project portfolio lending for, 54f
project portfolio lending to, 54f        ments and, 50-51
Asian Development Bank, 40-41, 50     Europe and Central Asia, 98-102      1
adjustment commitments, 28t         Industry and trade
C                                      economic and sector work in, 31       IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f
Clean Air Initiative, 41b              GDP growth in, 25                     IBRD lending for, 27f
Coding system for lending, 26b         lending to, 26, 27f, 29f, 31 f        IDA lending for, 29f
Cofinancing, 35, 36f                   poverty reduction in, 46              project portfolio lending for, 54f
Comprehensive Development Frame-       project portfolio lending to, 54f   Information and communication
work, 3, 30, 38b                    Regional Forum on law and justice,   IBRD-IDA lending for, 31 f
Consultative Group on International        78                                IBRD lending for, 27f
Agricultural Research (CGIAR), 17, 68  social protection funding, 66      IDA lending for, 29f
Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest  Executive Directors, 5-7           infrastructure development and, 72
(CGAP), 72-73                                                            legal issues knowledge sharing, 79b
Country Assistance Strategies (CASs), 6,  F                                  poverty reduction and, 75
37-38                             Finance sector                          project portfolio lending for, 54f
D                                      IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f      Inspection Panel, 7
Developmental Gateway Foundation,      IBRD lending for, 26, 27f           Inter-American Development Bank, 35,
18, 39, 40b, 41b                    IDA lending for, 29f                   40-41, 51
Development effectiveness, 44-58       project portfolio lending for, 54f  International Advisory Council on Law
assessment of, 24, 50-53            Financial Action Task Force, 75          and Justice, 78
best practices, 58-59               Financial and private sector develop-  International Bank for Reconstruction
borrower capacity and commitment,      ment                                  and Development (IBRD), 8
56-57                             economic and sector work in, 31       adjustment commitments, 28t
investment climate, 15-16b           IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f        funding sources of, 33-34, 35t
MDG progress, 45-50                  IBRD lending for, 27f                 income distribution, 34, 34f, 35t
project and loan performance, 55-56,  IDA lending for, 28, 29f             lending commitments, 24, 26-27,
56f, 57f                          project portfolio lending for, 54f       27f
results, 54-55, 55f                   regulatory framework financing, 27   lending fiscal 1993-2002, 30t
Financial Sector Assessment Program    poverty reduction financing, 18, 19,
E                                        (FSAP), 32, 74-75, 76                  20-21
East Asia and Pacific, 89-92          Financial Sector Reform and Strengthen-  International Centre for Settlement of
adjustment commitments, 28t            ing Initiative, 74                    Investment Disputes, 9
GDP growth in, 25                                                         International Development Association
lending to, 26, 27f, 29f, 31f       G                                        (IDA), 8
poverty reduction in, 46            Gender issues. See Social development,  adjustment commitments, 28t
project portfolio lending to, 54f      gender, and inclusion               funding sources of, 32-33, 33f
social protection funding, 66       Global Development Learning Network,   IDA13 replenishment, 3-4
Economic management                      18, 39, 41b                         lending commitments, 24, 27-28
economic and sector work in, 31     Global Development Network, 18         lending fiscal 1993-2002, 30t
IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31 f     Global economic slowdown, 25-26        poverty reduction financing, 18-20,
IBRD lending for, 27f               Global Environment Facility (GEF),        20f
IDA lending for, 27, 29f               17-18, 35                          International Finance Corporation, 9
project portfolio lending for, 54f    Trust Fund, 36                      International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Education                             Global Initiative for Public-Private Part-  FSAP and, 32, 74-75, 76
IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f         nerships in Hand-Washing, 71        HIPC Initiative and, 28-29
IBRD lending for, 27f               Globalization, trade and, 15-16b       partnership with, 6-7, 39, 42
IDA lending for, 27, 29f            Global Knowledge Partnership, 41b      PRSP review conference and, 24
project outcomes in, SS, 56f        Global Product Groups, 70-71         International Partnership against AIDS
project portfolio lending for, 54f  Global Public Good Incentive Fund, 37   in Africa, 24
168      The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Investment, legal climate for, 77-78  0                                  Social protection and risk management
Investment climate assessments, 70   Organisation for Economic Co-operation  economic and sector work in, 31
and Development (OECD), 41, 51     evaluation, 52, 53
J                                    Output-based aid (OBA) pilots, 70     IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f
Japan Bank for International Coopera-                                     IBRD lending for, 27f
tion, 35                         P                                      IDA lending for, 29f
Joint Africa Institute, 39, 41b      Partnerships, 39-42                   poverty reduction and, 65-66
Joint Vienna Institute, 39, 41b      Policy and Human Resource Develop-    project portfolio lending for, 54f
ment Fund, 36                    South Asia, 93-97
K                                    Poverty reduction, 13-15, 17-18, 60-62  adjustment commitments, 28t
Knowledge products and services, 18,  development effectiveness and, 45    education in, 46
29-32                              economic and sector work in, 54     GDP growth in, 25
Knowledge sharing, 41b                financing, 18-21                     gender gap in, 47
Financing for Development Confer-   lending to, 24, 27, 27f, 29f, 31 f
L                                        ence and, 24, 25                  project portfolio lending to, 54f
Latin America and the Caribbean, 103-7  Health, Nutrition, and Population Sec-  Strategic Directions Papers, 6
adjustment commitments, 28t             tor, 64-65                     Strategic Framework, 6
cofinancing in, 35                  lending for, 19b                   Sustainable development
GDP growth in, 25                    social protection and, 65-66        legal instruments and models, 78
gender equality in, 46             Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers     Sustainable Justice 2002, 79
lending to, 26, 27f, 29f, 31 f        (PRSPs), 3, 6, 38, 60, 61b         World Summit on, 40
payment system reform, 75b          completion of, 24
project portfolio lending to, 54f   country ownership of, 14-15        T
social protection funding, 66        HIPC Initiative and, 29           Trade
Law and justice and public admini-    IMF and, 42                          globalization and, 15-16b
stration                         Poverty Reduction Support Credits      poverty reduction and, 63
IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f        (PRSCs), 15, 31, 38, 71          Trade and integration
IBRD lending for, 27f              Principles and Guidelines for Effective  IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31 f
IDA lending for, 29f                  Insolvency and Creditors Rights Sys-  IBRD lending for, 27f
project portfolio lending for, 54f    tems, 77-78                        IDA lending for, 29f
Legal and judicial reform, 77        Private Sector Development and Infra-  project portfolio lending for, 54f
Lending, coding system for, 26b        structure Network, 70-73, 72f     Transportation
Low-income countries, support to, 38  Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF), 78      IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f
Public sector governance              IBRD lending for, 27f
M                                     economic and sector work in, 31     IDA lending for, 29f
Middle East and North Africa, 108-13  IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f      infrastructure development and, 71-72
adjustment commitments, 28t          IBRD lending for, 26, 26b, 27, 27f  project outcomes in, 55, 56f
cofinancing in, 35                  IDA lending for, 27, 28, 29f         project portfolio lending for, 54f
GDP growth in, 25                    poverty reduction and, 63         TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellec-
lending to, 27f, 29f, 31f            project outcomes in, 55, 56f         tual Property Rights) Agreement,
project outcomes in, 55              project portfolio lending for, 54f   developing countries and, 16b
project portfolio lending to, 54f                                      Trust funds, 35-37, 37f
social protection funding, 66      Q                                   u
Middle-income countries, support to,  Quality Assurance Group, 51, 53-54  United Kingdom, Department for Inter-
38-39                                                                    national Development, 65
Millennium Development Goals (MDG),  R                                   United Nations, 6, 75
12-13t 31, 49f, 59, 63. See also Mon-  Reports on the Observance of Standards  Development Programme (UNDP), 39
terrey Consensus                     and Codes (ROSC5), 74, 78          Financing for Development confer-
child mortality, 47, 48f           Rule of Law, 77-79                       ence, 7, 40
development effectiveness and, 45-50  IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t 31f      Food and Agriculture Organization,
development of, 2-3                 IBRD lending for, 27f                   78-79
environmental sustainability, 49, 49f,  IDA lending for, 29f             Joint Programme on HIV/AIDS, 24
67-68                            project portfolio lending for, 54f  Urban development
gender equality, 46-47, 47f        Rural development                     IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f
global development partnership, 50,  IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31 f     IBRD lending for, 27, 27f
5of                              IBRD lending for, 27f                IDA lending for, 29f
global economic slowdown and, 26     IDA lending for, 29f                project portfolio lending for, 54f
HIV/AIDS, malaria, etc., 48-49      project portfolio lending for, 54f
maternal health, 47-48, 48f                                            W
poverty and hunger, 46, 46f        S                                   Water, sanitation, and flood protection
poverty reduction, 13-15           Safeguard policies, 69                IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f
universal primary education, 46-47,  Science and technology, 69         IBRD lending for, 27f
47f                             Sector Strategy Papers (SSPs), 39, 52, 53  IDA lending for, 27, 29f
Monterrey Consensus, 2-3, 24        Social development, gender, and inclu-  project portfolio lending for, 54f
Multicountry HIV/AIDS Programs          sion                             Wolfensohn, James D., 2-4
(MAPs), 24, 65                     education and, 46-47               World Bank Institute, 18, 39-40
Multilateral development banks, 40-41  evaluation, 52, 53                World Bank-International Monetary
Multilateral Investment Guarantee     IBRD-IDA lending for, 30t, 31f        Fund efforts, 6-7
Agency, 9                          IBRD lending for, 27f              World Business Council for Sustainable
IDA lending for, 29f                  Development Virtual University, 41b
N                                     poverty reduction and, 60-61, 68-69  World Links, 18
New Rices for Africa (NERICAs), 17    project portfolio lending for, 54f  World Trade Organization (WTO), 16b
Index     169



List of Boxes, Figures, and Tables
BOXES                                            Figure 2.8  Total IBRD-IDA Lending by Theme,
Fiscal 2002 31
Box 1.1 Globalization and Trade  15              Figure 2.9  Total IBRD-IDA Lending by Sector,
Box 1.2 Lending for Poverty Reduction  19                   Fiscal 2002  31
Box 2.1 New Coding System for Bank Lending  26   Figure 2.10 Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt
Box 2.2 Strengthening the Country Business Model:           Relief-Reduced Debt Stock and
The Comprehensive Development                        Improving Debt Service Ratios 32
Framework  38                            Figure 2.11  Trends in Social Spending before and
Box 2.3 The Development Gateway Foundation  40              after Assistance under the Heavily
Box 2.4 Web Sites: Knowledge Sharing and                    Indebted Poor Countries Initiative 32
Partnerships 41                           Figure 2.12 Sources of IDA Funding  33
Box 4.1 Review of the Poverty Reduction Strategy  Figure 2.13 Net Return on Assets 33
Paper Approach  61                        Figure 2.14 Equity-to-Loans Ratio as of June 30,
Box 4.2 Integrating Trade and Development 62                2002 34
Box 4.3 Helping Education Systems Cope with      Figure 2.15 Borrowings and Investments as of
HIV/AIDS 64                                          June 30, 2002  34
Box 4.4 Partnership against HIV/AIDS 66          Figure 2.16 Proposed Allocation of Fiscal 2002 Net
Box 4.5 World Summit on Sustainable                         Operating Income of $1.9 Billion  34
Development 67                            Figure 2.17 Ratio of Total Cofinancing to World Bank
Box 4.6 Payment System Reform  75                           Lending 36
Box 4.7 Legal Knowledge Sharing on the Web 79    Figure 2.18 Contributions to Bank-Administered Trust
Box 5.1 A Partnership for African Development 86            Funds, Fiscal 1998-2002  37
Box 5.2 Poverty Reduction Strategies in East Asia-  Figure 3.1  Population Living below $1 and $2 a
Regional, National, and Local 89                     Day 45
Box 5.3 Reducing Poverty 93                      Figure 3.2  Prevalence of Child Malnutrition in Low-
Box 5.4 Afghanistan in Transition  95                       and Middle-Income Economies 46
Box 5.5 Helping the Poor Weather Economic Crisis-  Figure 3.3  Primary Completion Rate 47
Turkey's Social Risk Mitigation Project 100  Figure 3.4  Ratio of Girls to Boys in Primary and
Box 5.6 Resource Exports Offer Path to Knowledge            Secondary Education in Low- and
Economy Jobs 106                                     Middle-Income Economies 47
Box 5.7 West Bank and Gaza-Support in a Conflict-  Figure 3.5  Mortality Rate in Low- and Middle-
Affected Area  108                                   Income Economies 48
Box 5.8 Environment Partnership and Learning-    Figure 3.6  Births Attended by Skilled Health
A Tale of the Commons 110                            Staff 48
Figure 3.7  Prevalence of HIV/AIDS among Young
People Ages 15 to 24, 1999 49
Figure 3.8  Access to an Improved Water Source in
FIGURES                                                     Low- and Middle-Income Economies 49
Figure 3.9  Aid to Low- and Middle-income
Figure 1.1  IDA's Stepped-Up Effort in the Social           Economies 50
Sectors 20                            Figure 3.10 Active Project Portfolio by Region as of
Figure 1.2  Net Official Development Assistance as a        June 30, 2002 54
Percentage of Gross National Income 21  Figure 3.11  Active Project Portfolio by Theme as of
Figure 2.1  IBRD Lending by Region, Fiscal 2002 27          June 30, 2002  54
Figure 2.2  IBRD Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002 27  Figure 3.12 Active Project Portfolio by Sector as of
Figure 2.3  IBRD Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002 27          June 30, 2002  54
Figure 2.4  IDA Lending by Region, Fiscal 2002 29  Figure 3.13 Satisfactory Project Outcomes,
Figure 2.5  IDA Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002 29            1974-2001  55
Figure 2.6  IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002 29  Figure 3.14 Trends in Institutional Development
Figure 2.7  Total IBRD-IDA Lending by Region,               Impact 55
Fiscal 2002 31                        Figure 3.15 Trends in Sustainability  55
170     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Figure 3.16 Trends in Outcomes for Africa and Other  Table 5.2  World Bank Lending to Borrowers in East
Regions 56                                        Asia and Pacific, by Theme and Sector,
Figure 3.17  Trends in Outcomes by Sector, Select             Fiscal 1993-2002 92
Sectors 56                              Table 5.3  World Bank Lending to Borrowers in
Figure 3.18 All Adjustment Lending  56                        South Asia, by Theme and Sector, Fiscal
Figure 3.19  All Investment Lending  57                       1993-2002  97
Figure 4.1  Lending for Infrastructure by Theme,    Table 5.4  World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Europe
Fiscal 2002  72                                   and Central Asia, by Theme and Sector,
Figure 4.2  Lending for Infrastructure by Sector, Fiscal      Fiscal 1993-2002  102
2002  72                                Table 5.5  World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Latin
America and the Caribbean, by Theme and
Figure 4.3  Net Long-Term Resource Flows to
Developing Countries, 1992-2001  72     Tal5.     Sector, Fiscal 1993-2002  107
7 Table 5.6  World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Middle
Figure 5.1  Africa: IBRD and IDA Lending by Theme,            East and North Africa, by Theme and Sector,
Fiscal 2002  87                                   Fiscal 1993-2002  113
Figure 5.2  Africa: IBRD and IDA Lending by Sector,  Table 6.1  Country Eligibility for Borrowing from the
Fiscal 2002  87                                   World Bank  131
Figure 5.3  East Asia and Pacific: IBRD and IDA     Table 6.2  World Bank Commitments, Disbursements,
Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002  91                 and Net Transfers in Africa, Fiscal 1997-
Figure 5.4  East Asia and Pacific: IBRD and IDA               2002  133
Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002  91      Table 6.3  World Bank Commitments, Disbursements,
Figure 5.5  South Asia: IBRD and IDA Lending by               and Net Transfers in East Asia and Pacific,
Theme, Fiscal 2002  96                            Fiscal 1997-2002  133
Figure 5.6  South Asia: IBRD and IDA Lending by     Table 6.4  World Bank Commitments, Disbursements,
Sector, Fiscal 2002  96                           and Net Transfers in South Asia, Fiscal
Figure 5.7  Europe and Central Asia: IBRD and IDA             1997-2002  134
Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002  101      Table 6.5  World Bank Commitments, Disbursements,
Figure 5.8  Europe and Central Asia: IBRD and IDA             and Net Transfers in Europe and Central Asia,
Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002  101               Fiscal 1997-2002  134
Figure 5.9  Latin America and the Caribbean: IBRD   Table 6.6  World Bank Commitments, Disbursements,
and IDA Lending by Theme, Fiscal                  and Net Transfers in Latin America and the
2002  106                                         Caribbean, Fiscal 1997-2002  135
2igure 5.1002atin 106rica and the Caribbean: IBRD  Table 6.7  World Bank Commitments, Disbursements,
Figure 5.10   Latin America and the Caribbean: IBRl           and Net Transfers in Middle East and North
and IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal                 Africa, Fiscal 1997-2002  135
2002  106                               Table 6.8  Summaries of Operations Approved during
Figure 5.11  Middle East and North Africa: IBRD and           Fiscal 2002, Africa  136
IDA Lending by Theme, Fiscal 2002  112  Table 6.9  Summaries of Operations Approved during
Figure 5.12  Middle East and North Africa: IBRD and           Fiscal 2002, East Asia and Pacific 144
IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2002  112  Table 6.10 Summaries of Operations Approved during
Fiscal 2002, South Asia 148
Table 6.11  Summaries of Operations Approved
during Fiscal 2002, Europe and Central
TABLES                                                        Asia 151
Table 6.12 Summaries of Operations Approved
Table 2.1  World Bank Adjustment Commitments,                 during Fiscal 2002, Latin America and the
Fiscal 2000-02  28                                  Caribbean  157
Table 2.2  World Bank Lending by Theme and Sector,  Table 6.13 Summaries of Operations Approved
Fiscal 1993-2002 30                                 during Fiscal 2002, Middle East and North
Table 2.3  Select IBRD Financial Data 35                      Africa  164
Table 5.1  World Bank Lending to Borrowers in Africa,  Table 6.14 World Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal
by Theme and Sector, Fiscal 1993-2002  88           2002  166
List of Boxes, Figures, and Tables  171



Select World Bank Publications: Major Titles
BANKING, FINANCE, AND INVESTMENT                  ENVIRONMENT AND POLLUTION PREVENTION
Development and Regulation of Non-Bank Financial  Building a Sustainable Future: The Africa Region
Institutions                                      Environment Strategy
Developing Government Bond Markets: A Handbook    China: Air, Land, and Water
Government at Risk                                The Legal and Regulatory Framework for
International Accounting Standards: A Practical     Environmental Impact Assessments
Guide
The Microfinance Revolution: Sustainable Finance for  LABOR AND INCOME
the Poor                                        Crafting Labor Policy: Techniques and Lessons from
The Microfinance Revolution: Lessons from           Latin America
Indonesia                                       Labor, Employment, and Social Policies in the EU
Enlargement Process: Changing Perspectives and
COMMODITIES, PRICING, AND TRADE                     Policy Options
Development, Trade, and the WTO                   Unions and Collective Bargaining: Economic Effects
Global Economic Prospects 2002: Making Trade Work  in a Global Environment
for the World's Poor
POVERTY
DEVELOPMENT ECONOMICS                             Can the Poor Influence Policy? Participatory Poverty
A Case for Aid: Building a Consensus for Development  Assessments in the Developing World
Assistance                                      Understanding and Measuring Social Capital: A
African Development Indicators 2002                 Multi-Disciplinary Tool for Practitioners
Annual World Bank Conference on Development       Voices of the Poor: From Many Lands
Economics 200112002
A Strategy for Development                        SOCIAL AND CULTURAL ISSUES
Facets of Globalization: International and Local  Reducing Vulnerability: Social Protection in the Middle
Dimensions of Development                         East and North America
Globalization, Growth, and Poverty: Building an
Inclusive World Economy                         WORLD BAN K
Global Development Finance 2002: Financing the    2001 Annual Review of Development Effectiveness:
Poorest Countries                                 Making Choices
The Little Data Book 2002                         Consulting Services Manual: A Comprehensive Guide
The Little Green Data Book 2002                     to Selection of Consultants
World Bank Africa Database 2002 CD-ROM            The World Bank Group Directory: September 2001
World Bank Atlas 2002
World Development Indicators 2002                  Some titles above are abbreviated.
World Development Report 2003: Sustainable
Development in a Dynamic World                   Phone: 703-661-1580
World Development Report 2002: Building Institutions  E-mail: books@worldbank.org
for Markets                                      Internet: www.worldbank.org/publications
EDUCATION AND TRAINING                             InfoShop
China and the Knowledge Economy: Seizing the 21st  Phone: 202-458-4500
Century                                          E-mail: Infoshop@worldbank.org
From Early Child Development to Human              Internet: www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Development: Investing in Our Children's Future
From Natural Resources to the Knowledge Economy:
Trade and Job Quality
172     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



List of Part I and Part ID IDA Member Countries
PART I IDA MEMBER         PART 11 IDA MEMBER         Gambia, The               Nepal
COUNTRIES                 COUNTRIES                  Georgia                   Nicaragua
Australia                 Afghanistan                Ghana                     Niger
Austria                   Albania                    Greece                    Nigeria
Belgium                   Algeria                   Grenada                    Oman
Canada                    Angola                     Guatemala                 Pakistan
Denmark                   Argentina                  Guinea                    Palau
Finland                   Armenia                   Guinea-Bissau              Panama
France                    Azerbaijan                 Guyana                    Papua New Guinea
Germany                   Bangladesh                 Haiti                     Paraguay
Iceland                   Barbados                   Honduras                  Peru
Ireland                   Belize                     Hungary                   Philippines
Italy                      Benin                     India                     Poland
Japan                     Bhutan                     Indonesia                 Rwanda
Kuwait                     Bolivia                   Iran, Islamic Republic of  St Kitts and Nevis
Luxembourg                Bosnia and Herzegovina     Iraq                      St. Lucia
Netherlands               Botswana                   Israel                    St Vincent and the
New Zealand               Brazil                    Jordan                       Grenadines
Norway                    Burkina Faso               Kazakhstan                Samoa
Portugal                  Burundi                    Kenya                    So Tome and Principe
Russian Federation        Cambodia                   Kiribati                  Saudi Arabia
South Africa              Cameroon                   Korea, Republic of        Senegal
Spain                     Cape Verde                 Kyrgyz Republic           Sierra Leone
Sweden                    Central African Republic   Lao People's Democratic   Slovak Republic
Switzerland               Chad                         Republic                Slovenia
United Arab Emirates      Chile                      Latvia                    Solomon Islands
United Kingdom            China                      Lebanon                   Somalia
United States             Colombia                   Lesotho                   Sri Lanka
Comoros                   Liberia                    Sudan
Congo, Democratic         Libya                      Swaziland
Republic of             Macedonia, former          Syrian Arab Republic
Congo, Republic of          Yugoslav Republic of    Tajikistan
Costa Rica                Madagascar                Tanzania
C6te d'lvoire             Malawi                    Thailand
Croatia                   Malaysia                  Togo
Cyprus                    Maldives                  Tonga
Czech Republic            Mali                      Trinidad and Tobago
Djibouti                  Marshall Islands          Tunisia
Dominica                  Mauritania                Turkey
Dominican Republic        Mauritius                  Uganda
Ecuador                   Mexico                     Uzbekistan
Egypt, Arab Republic of   Micronesia, Federated     Vanuatu
El Salvador                 States of               Vietnam
Equatorial Guinea         Moldova                   Yemen, Republic of
Eritrea                   Mongolia                  Yugoslavia, Federal
Ethiopia                  Morocco                     Republic of
Fiji                      Mozambique                Zambia
Gabon                     Myanmar                   Zimbabwe
Note Countries choose whether they are Part I or Part 11 based primarily on economic standing Part I countries are almost all donors to the
International Development Association and they pay their contributions in freely convertible currency Part 11 countries may be donors and are entitled
to pay most of their contributions in local currency For more information, and for Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions of
IDA Members, see the World Bank Annual Report 2002 Volume 2, Financal Statements and Appendixes
List of Part I and Part II IDA Member Countries  173



World Bank Web Sites
About the World Bank Group        Early Childhood Development       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
www.worldbank org/about           wwwworldbank.org/children         Initiative
www.worldbank.org/hipc
Africa                            East Asia and Pacific
www.worldbank org/afr             www.worldbank org/eap             Help/Frequently Asked Questions
www.worldbank org/help
Annual & Spring Meetings          Education
www.worldbank.org/                www.worldbank org/education       HIV/AIDS and the World Bank
annualmeetings                                                      www.worldbank org/aids
Energy
Anticorruption                    www.worldbank org/energy          International Bank for Reconstruc-
www worldbank.org/anticorruption                                    tion and Development
Environment                       www.worldbank org/ibrd
B-SPAN. Webcasting for            wwwworldbank.org/environment
Development                                                         International Centre for Settlement
www.worldbank.org/wbi/B-SPAN      Europe and Central Asia           of Investment Disputes
www.worldbank.org/eca             www.worldbank.org/icsid
Calendar of Development Events
www.worldbank org/events          Evaluation                        International Development
www.worldbank org/oed             Association
Community Partners Forum                                            www worldbank org/ida
www.worldbank org/                Finance
communitypartners                 www.worldbank org/finance         International Finance Corporation
www.ifc org
Comprehensive Development         Financial Products & Services
Framework                         www.worldbank org/fps             International Financial Architecture
www.worldbank org/cdf                                               www.worldbank.org/ifa
Foreign Investment Advisory Service
Contacting the World Bank         www fias net                      InfoDev (Information for
www.worldbank.org/contacts                                          Development)
Gender                            www.worldbank.org/infodev
Country Assistance Strategies     www.worldbank.org/gender
www worldbank org/cas                                               InfoShop (Public Information
Global Development Finance        Center)
Country Offices                   www worldbank.org/prospects/      www worldbank.org/infoshop
www.worldbank org/contacts        gdf2002
Inspection Panel
Data and Statistics               Global Development Network        wwwworldbank.org/
www.worldbank.org/data            www.gdnet.org                     inspectionpanel
Debt Securities                   Global Distance EducationNet      IPAnet
www worldbank.org/debtsecurities  www.worldbank org/disted          www ipanet.net
Development Forum                 Global Economic Prospects         Jobs and Scholarships
www worldbank.org/devforum        www.worldbank.org/prospects/      www.worldbank.org/careers
gep2002
Development Gateway                                                 Knowledge Sharing
www developmentgateway org/       Globalization                     www worldbank org/ks
www.worldbank.org/globalization
Development Grant Facility                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
wwwworldbank.org/dgf              Groupe de la Banque Mondiale      www.worldbank.org/lac
www.banquemondiale.org
Development News                                                    Law and Justice
www worldbank org/                Grupo del Banco Mundial           www.worldbank.org/legal
developmentnews                   www bancomundial org
Library
Disclosure of Information         Health, Nutrition, and Population  jolis.worldbankimflib.org/
www.worldbank.org/disclosure      www.worldbank org/hnp             external.htm
174     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



Middle East and North Africa      Procurement in Bank-Financed      Spring Meetings
www.worldbank org/mena            Projects                          www worldbank.org/springmeetings
www.worldbank org/procure
Millennium Development Goals                                        Sustainable Development
www.developmentgoals org          Project Database                  www.worldbank.org/
www.worldbank.org/projects        sustainabledevelopment
Multilateral Investment Guarantee
Agency                            Public Sector                     Telecommunications and Informatics
www.miga.org                      www.worldbank org/publicsector    www worldbank.org/ict
Mining                            Publications                      Transport
www.worldbank.org/mining          www.worldbank org/publications    www worldbank org/transport
Newsletters                       Rapid Response                    Urban Development
wwwworldbank.org/subscriptions    rru.worldbank org                 www.worldbank org/urban
Nongovernmental                   Research                          Voices of the Poor
Organizations/Civil Society       www worldbank org/research        www.worldbank.org/poverty/voices
www.worldbank.org/ngos
Resource Mobilization and         Water Resources Management
Participation                     Cofinancing                       www.worldbank org/water
www.worldbank.org/participation   www.worldbank org/rmc
World Bank Annual Reports
Pensions                          Rural Development and Agriculture  www.worldbank.org/annualreport
www.worldbank org/pensions        www worldbank org/rural
World Bank Institute
Poverty Reduction/Poverty Net     Schools                           www.worldbank.org/wbi
wwwworldbank org/poverty          www worldbank org/html/schools
World Development Indicators
Poverty Reduction Strategy        Social Development (Social        www worldbank.org/data/wdi
Papers                            Assessment)
www.worldbank.org/poverty/        wwwworldbank.org/                 World Development Report
strategies                        socialdevelopment                 www.worldbank.org/wdr
Private Sector Development        Social Protection                 World Development Sources
www worldbank org/privatesector   www worldbank.org/sp              www-wds worldbank.org
PrivatizationLink                 South Asia                        World Links for Development
privatizationlink.ipanet.net      www worldbank org/sar             www worldbank.org/worldlinks
World Bank Web Sites  175



Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB      Asian Development Bank                 IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural
AfDB     African Development Bank                        Development
ARDE     Annual Review of Development           IFC      International Finance Corporation
Effectiveness                          IMF      International Monetary Fund
AVU      African Virtual University             InfoDev  Information for Development Program
Bank     World Bank (IBRD and IDA)              INT      Department of Institutional Integrity
CAE      country assistance evaluation          l-PRSP   interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
CAS      country assistance strategy            LIBOR    London InterBank Offered Rate
CDF      Comprehensive Development Framework    MAP      Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program
CFC      chlorofluorocarbon                     MDB      multilateral development bank
CGAP     Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest  MDGs  Millennium Development Goals
CGIAR    Consultative Group on International    MIGA     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Agricultural Research                  NEPAD    New Partnership for Africa's Development
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States     NERICAs  New Rices for Africa
CPIA     Country Policy and Institutional Assessment  NGO  nongovernmental organization
DAC      Development Assistance Committee       NSCP     National Schistosomiasis Control Program
DECDG    Development Economics and Data Group   OBA      output-based aid
DfID     Department for International Development  ODA   official development assistance
DOTS     directly observed treatment, short course  OECD  Organisation for Economic Co-operation
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and            and Development
Development                            OED      Operations Evaluation Department
EC       European Commission                    PCF      Prototype Carbon Fund
EEP      Education Enhancement Project          PEFA     Public Expenditure and Financial
EFA      Education for All                               Accountability
ESW      economic and sector work               PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
EU       European Union                         PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
FAMEX    Fonds d'Acces aux Marches d'Exportation  PSI    Private Sector Development and
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program             Infrastructure Network
GBLD     Global Banking Law Database            QAG      Quality Assurance Group
GDLN     Global Development Learning Network    ROSC     Report on the Observance of Standards
GDP      gross domestic product                          and Codes
GEF      Global Environment Facility            SDRs     special drawing rights
GHG      greenhouse gas                         SMEs     small and medium enterprises
GNI      gross national income                  SRM      strategy and resource management
HIPC     heavily indebted poor countries        SSP      Sector Strategy Paper
HIV/AIDS human immunodeficiency virus/acquired  SWAP     sectorwide approaches
immune deficiency syndrome             TB       tuberculosis
HNP      health, nutrition, and population      TRIPS    Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank                 Property Rights
IAVI     International AIDS Vaccine Iniative    U.N.     United Nations
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and  UNAIDS  Joint U N. Programme on HIV/AIDS
Development                            UNDP     U N Development Programme
ICR      Implementation Completion Report       UNEP     U N. Environment Programme
ICSID    International Centre for Settlement of  WBI     World Bank Institute
Investment Disputes                    WDR      World Development Report
ICT      information and communication          WHI      Western Hemisphere Payments and
technology                                      Securities Clearance and Settlement
IDA      International Development Association           Initiative
IF       Integrated Framework for Trade-Related  WHO     World Health Organization
Technical Assistance to Least Developed  WSSD   World Summit on Sustainable Development
Countries                              WTO      World Trade Organization
176     The World Bank Annual Report 2002



The World Bank InfoShop is a one-stop shop for       Editor
economic development literature and a source of      Cathy L Gagnet, Office of the Publisher, External Affairs, World Bank
information on World Bank project activities. It Assistants to the Editor
carries publications from a variety of publishers-   Nisha Chatani Rizvi, Consultant, Office of the Publisher, External
including-nongovernmental organizations and          Affairs, World Bank
international organizationt-as well as documents     Caroline L Banton, Office of the Publisher, External Affairs, World
Bank
per the World Bank's disclctsure policy require-     B
ments. It also carries videos, CD-ROMs, gifts, and   Consultants
other items. Several InfoStations allow public access  Inder K Sud, Washington Associates International
to the World Bank Web site. Information is also      Kenneth Watson, Rideau, Strategy Consultants
available at all Public Information Centers/Libraries  Production
in several country offices worldwide. Please visit   Cindy A. Fisher, Office of the Publisher, External Affairs, World Bank
our e-bookstore to browse titles and to place        Monika D. Lynde, Office of the Publisher, External Affairs, World Bank
orders anytime.                                      Janet H Sasser, Office of the Publisher, External Affairs, World Bank
Project Assistant
Internet: www.worldbank.orgAinfoshop                 CesarA Gordillo
E-bookstore: www.worldbankinfoshop.org            I  Editorial Consultants
Address: 701 18th St., NW                            EEI Communications
Washington, D.C. 20433                               Susan Graham
(corner of 18th St. and Pennsylvania Ave.            Alison Penia
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.)            o
E-mail: Infoshop@worldbank.org (for orders)          Design
pic@worldbank.org (for queries)                   1  Patricia Hord.Graphik Design
Telephone: 202-458-4500 (9:30 a.m.-3:30 p m.)        Typesetting
Fax: 202-522-1500
Interactive Composition Corporation
PIC Europe in Paris at                               Index
66 Avenue d'Iena                                     Deborah Patton
75116 Paris, France
Telephone: 40.69.30.26
Fax: 40.69.30.69
E-mail: pparis@worldbank.org                         Photo Credits
PIC Tokyo: Fukoku Seimei Bldg. 10-F,                 cover photo, Richard Lord       page 48, Curt Carnemark
Uchisaiwai-Cho 2-2-2, Chiyoda-Ku,                    page 1, Deborah Campos          page 49, Curt Carnemark
Tokyo 100, Japan                                     page 2, Steve Conners           page 49, Khaled Abou Seif
Telephone: 03.3597.6650                              page 5, Breton Littlehales      page 50, Yosef Hadar
Fax: 03.3597.6695                                    page 8, Stan Peabody            page 59, Curt Carnemark
E-mail. ptokyo@worldbank.org (in English)            page 8, Kamamba Nyambe          page 60, Curt Carnemark
pic@worldbanktokyo.or.jp (in Japanese)               page 9, Mark Fallander          page 63, Curt Carnemark
page 9, World Bank/Angela       page 64, Curt Carnemark
Gentile-Blackwell             page 65, Curt Carnemark
C   page 9, Government of the      'page 67, Yosef Hadar
Copyright 0 2002                                       Kingdom of Morocco            page 70, Ray Witlin
The international Bank for Reconstruction            page 11, Curt Carnemark         page 71, World Bank/
and Development/THE WORLD BANK                       page 12, Curt Carnemark           Richard Uku
1818 H Street, NW                                    page 12, Curt Carnemark         page 74, Andre Rodrigues Cano
Washington, D.C 20433 USA                            page 12, Curt Carnemark         page 77, World Bank/
- All rights reserved                                  page 12, Kay Chernush             Robert Buergenthal
page 13, Curt Carnemark         page 78, World Bank/
The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information  page 13, Curt Carnemark  Robert Buergenthal
shown on any map in this volume do not imply on the part of  page 13, Yosef Hadar    page 81-, Curt Carnemark
the World Bank any judgment on the legal status of any territory  page 13, Curt Carnemark  page 85, Kamamba Nyambe
or the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.  page 18, Curt Carnemark        page 86, Curt Carnemark
page 20, World Bank/            page 90, John Donaldson
All queries on rights, licenses, and permissions should be  John Gandolfo          . page 94, World Bank/
addressed to the Office of the Publisher, World Bank,  page 23, Curt Carnemark         Michael Foley
1818 H Street NW, Washington, D.C., 20433, fax 202-522-2422,  page 25, Curt Carnemark  page 96, World Bank/Guy Stubbs
e-mail pubrightsiSwiorlclbank.org.
e-mail pubrightsOworldbankorg. >page 38, Curt Carnemark                         page 99, Curt Carnemark
ISSN 0252-2942                                       page 43, Ray Witlin             page 104, Pedro Campos Verde
ISBN 0-8213-5157-5                                   page 46, Curt Carnemark         page 105, Cecilia I. R Aleman
page 47, Curt Carnemark         page 109, Yemen Social Fund
Send comments on the World Bank Annual Report 2002   page 47, Pickerell              page 111, Yemen Social Fund
to areditor@worldbank.org.                           page 48, Curt Carnemark         page 115, Deborah Campos



THE WORLD BANK
1818 H Street, NW157
Washington, DC 20433 USA
Telephone: 202 473 100097821357 
Facsimle: 202 477 6391                                                   9L    8    1   3557
Internet: www.worldbank.org
E-mail: feedback@worldbank.org                                              ISBN 0-8213-5157-5



