10914
INTERNATIONAL
BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORrr
I93/- /-9S2



a
A
I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
1 951-19 52
WASHINGTON, D. C.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
September 3, 1952
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have been authorized by the
Executive Directors to submit to the Board of Governors this Seventh
Annual Report of the Bank. The report includes financial statements as
of June 30, 1952, based on an audit of the accounts of the Bank made
pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws. It also incorporates, pursuant to
Section 19 of the By-Laws, an administrative budget for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1953.
The report as a whole covers the Bank's activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 1951 and ending June 30, 1952.
Sincerely yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President.
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter                                                                                                                                 Page
I-GENERAL                       .....................................................                                                   7
The Year in Review ............................................    7
The Bank's Lending: 1947-52 ................................... .                                                             8
Technical Assistance                                ...........................                                              10
International Finance Corporation .................................   12
II-THE  BANK'S OPERATIONS ......................................    14
Africa    .          .....................................................                                                   14
Asia   .       ........................................................                                                      16
Australia   .             ....................................................                                               20
Europe .......................................................  21
Western  Hemisphere   ..............                                  .............................                          26
III-FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESOURCES .......................  36
Earnings, Reserves, Repayments and Disbursements ...................   36
Funds Available for Lending .....................................   37
Sales of Securities ..............................................   37
New Issues of the Bank's Bonds ..............................   38
Sales of Bonds from the Bank's Portfolio .......................   38
Broadening Market for the Bank's Bonds .......................   39
Financial Statements and Reports .................................   39
IV-MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION ..........................  40
Personnel and Organization ......................................   40
Training   Program    ..............                              ...............................                           40
Staff Retirement Plan ...........................................   40
Administrative   Budget   .........................................                                                         40



Chapter                                                                                 Page
V-MISCELLANEOUS  ..................                  ............................   41
Relations with Other International Organizations ....................   41
Membership and Subscription ....................................   41
Additional Reports to Board of Governors .........................   42
Appendices .      ..................................................    42
A. Balance Sheet-June 30, 1952 .............................   44
B. Comparative Statements of Income and Expenses for the
Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1951 and June 30, 1952 ...........   46
C. Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1952 ......   47
D. Statement of Loans-June 30, 1952                    .         .          48
E. Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-
June 30, 1952 ...........................................   54
F. Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1952 ................   55
G. Opinion of Independent Auditor ......... ..             ..............    57
H. Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1953.    59
I. Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries
as of June 30, 1952 ......................................   60
J. Governors and Alternates as of June 30, 1952 ................   61
K. Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power
as of June 30, 1952 ......................................   62
L. Principal Officers of the Bank as of June 30, 1952 .............   64



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I



Chapter I - General
THE YEAR IN REVIEW
In the past fiscal year the Bank made 19 loans  The Bank sent out a number of specialized
in 16 countries for an amount equivalent to $298.6    missions to study specific development problems
million. This brought the total of all Bank lend-   in member countries. And in the normal course
ing to $1,412 million, in 27 countries. Of this    of its work on loan proposals and projects, it
-amount, $29.7 million has been refunded or can-    gave advice on a wide range of technical, finan-
celed.  Disbursements during  the fiscal year    cial and administrative matters.
amounted to $184.8 million, compared with $77.6   The Bank added to its dollar resources by sell-
million in the preceding 12 months. The total of    ing $150 million of its own bonds in the United
Bank disbursements is now $876.5 million.       States. One issue, of $100 million, was sold in
During the year, loans for agricultural develop-    September 1951 and another, of $50 million, in
ment were made in Chile, Iceland, Nicaragua,    May 1952.
Pakistan and Paraguay; for improved transporta-   Bank bonds were also issued outside the United
tion facilities in Brazil, the Netherlands, Pakistan    States. The Bank's first public offering in Switzer-
and Peru; for the production and distribution of    land, in an amount of 50,000,000 Swiss francs
electric power in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and    (approximately $11.6 million), was sold in July
Southern Ithodesia; for irrigation and power in    1951; and in February 1952 the Bank marketed
Turkey; and for power, industry and transporta-    its first issue of securities in Canada, in the amount
tion in Finland. A loan was made to Yugoslavia    of Can $15 million. The Bank further added to
for projects in seven important sectors of the    its resources by selling $23.4 million of securities
economy. Loans were made to Belgium and to    from its portfolio, $10.4 million without its guar-
the Belgian Congo to aid in carrying out the    antee.
Ten Year Development Plan for the Congo, and      Several member countries made parts of their
to Italy in support of its ten year plan for south-   local-currency subscriptions to the Bank's capital
ern Italy. The loan to the Congo was the first    available for lending. Among them, Canada in
made by the Bank to assist in the development    May 1952 released the balance (Can $41 million)
of an overseas territory of a member country.   of her original Canadian-dollar subscription (Can
The Bank has continued to help its members    $58.5 million). This release is fully convertible
to draw up long-term programs of economic de-    and may be used without restriction for purchases
velopment. The general survey mission continues    in Canada and elsewhere.
to be the Bank's chief means of giving assistance  Two loans during the year, one to Iceland and
of this kind. Reports of the missions to Guate-    another to Yugoslavia, were made for disburse-
mala, Cuba, Iraq and Surinam were presented to    ment entirely in European currencies. The loan
the Governments during the year. A report on    of $27.2 million for the Pakistan railways induded
Ceylon was ready for presentation, and a report   the equivalent of $12 million in French francs,
on Jamaica was in preparation. A variation of    released from  the French subscription to the
the survey mission technique was used in Nica-    Bank's capital.
ragua; two staff members were stationed there     At the beginning of the year it was expected
during most of -the year, to work directly with    that serious delays on Bank-financed projects
the Government in drafting a broad development    might be caused by shortages in the supplies of
program and starting to put it into effect.     capital goods. A special unit in the Bank followed
1171



supply developments closely, in Europe as well    Development Advisory Board, a representative
as in the United States and Canada, and helped    group of private citizens appointed by the Presi-
the Bank's borrowers to obtain priority ratings for    dent of the United States in accordance with the
equipment on order. No request by the Bank for    Act for International Development, published a
assistance in obtaining priority ratings for its   report entitled Partners in Progress. This report,
borrowers was denied; and no project was halted    prepared after consultation with the management
and no abnormal delays were caused by failure    of the Bank, proposed, among other things, that
to obtain necessary equipment.                  an International Finance Corporation be created
In November 1951, after expressions of inter-    as an affiliate of the Bank, to help finance private
est by Iran and the United Kingdom, the Bank    enterprise by equity investment or by loans made
offered to try to work out a proposal under which,    without governmental guarantee. During the
as an interim measure, it might assist in restoring    fiscal year, a report was prepared by the staff as
oil operations in south Iran. Several weeks of dis-    a basis for continuing to explore the proposal
cussion with the Government in Iran did not pro-    with member governments and interested business
duce agreement on several major points. It was    groups. In June 1952, after discussing the report,
mutually decided to recess the talks, with the    the United Nations Economic and Social Coun-
understanding that they could be resumed if it   cil approved a resolution requesting that explora-
should appear that a basis of agreement might   tions continue, and that the Bank inform  the
be reached.                                     Council in 1953 of the results of its study and of
In March 1951 the United States International    any action it might take on the proposal.
THE BANK'S LENDING: 1947-52
In its five years of lending the Bank has made    war reconstruction during the period before the
68 loans amounting to the equivalent of $1,412    European Recovery Program  was in operation.
million, of which approximately $30 million has    Since that time nearly all of the Bank's lending
been canceled or refunded, leaving a total of    has been devoted to providing basic utilities in the
$1,382 million. The table on the opposite page    less developed areas. It is the loans made after
shows the purposes for which the loans were made    the reconstruction loans of 1947 that are discussed
and their geographical distribution. Altogether,   in the following paragraphs.
some 250 individual projects have been completed  Agriculture: The Bank has engaged in a wide
or are being carried out with the help of Bank    variety of lending to increase agricultural produc-
financing.                                      tion. Among other things, it has helped to finance
The amounts lent do not measure the magni-   farm mechanization (in Australia, Chile, Colom-
tude or the total costs of these projects. The Bank    bia, Nicaragua and Paraguay), land clearance (in
normally finances only the foreign-exchange costs   India and Pakistan), irrigation (in Chile, India,
of imported equipment and services, needed to    Iraq, Thailand and Turkey), flood control (in
complete projects; usually the larger part of the    Iraq and Turkey), grain storage (in Nicaragua
cost of any project is met by the borrower. The    and Turkey) and improvements on individual
total cost of projects completed or going forward    farms (in Iceland). In all, the Bank's lending
with the help of Bank financing amounts to more   in direct support of agricultural development, in-
than $3 billion.                                cluding small amounts for forestry, totals $128
The Bank's first four loans, amounting to $497    million. In addition, many of the Bank's loans
million, were made in 1947 to France, Denmark,    for electric power and transportation have been
Luxembourg and the Netherlands to assist post-    made to countries that are predominantly agri-
[8]



International Bank Loans Classified by Purpose and Area
As of June 30, 1952
(In millions of United States dollars)
Area
Asia &                          Western
Purpose                       Total      Africa     Middle   Australia    Europe    Hems-
East                           sphere
I
GRAND TOTAL  ..............    1,382                125       129        100        699        329
RECONSTRUCTION LOANS:
TOTAL France, The Netherlands, Denmark,
Luxembourg .497   -    -    -   497 _
OTHER LOANS:
TOTAL .885  125  129  100  202  329
ELECTRIC POWER (Machinery, equipment
and construction materials) .391                       58         19         27         34       253
TRANSPORTATION .179    24    67    20    33    35
Railroads: locomotives, rolling stock,
rails and shop supplies .108                         18         63         14          1        12
Shipping: vessels and marine equipment      12         -          -          -          12         -
Airlines: planes and spare parts             7         -          -                      7
Roads: building machinery and equip-
ment.                                     31   5  -   6  -   20
Ports: docks, loading and dredging ma-
chinery and harbor craft.                 21          1          4         -          13          3
COMMUNICATIONS (Telephone & tele-
graph equipment and supplies)               25          1         -          -          -          24
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY .128                            -          43         44         25         16
Mechanization: general farm machinery
and equipment .43    -                                          -          29          2    12
Irrigation and flood control: construc-
tion equipment and materials              55         -          31         10         13          1
Land improvement: machinery, equip-
ment and construction materials...        20         -          12          5          1          2
Grain storage: construction materials.        5        -          -          -           4          1
Timber production: machinery and ve-
hicles .5  -   -   -   5  -
INDUSTRY .70   -   -    9   61   -
Manufacturing machinery .59                            -          -           6         53
Mining equipment .11    -                                         -           3          8    -
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT .92    42                                       -          -          49          1
Development banks .12                                   2               -                9          1
General development plans .80                          40         -                     40         -
[9]



cultural, and have been designed in part to pro-    1955 add 700,000 kilowatts of generating capacity
mote agricultural production and earnings.        to the 1,000,000 that existed when the Bank made
Transportation: The less developed countries    its first loan for electricity there in 1949.
need basic transportation facilities, to quicken in-  Industry: The Bank's lending for industry has
ternal and international trade and to provide new  not been comparable in amount to its financing
incentives for production. Without ready access    for other purposes. The requirement of the Bank's
to markets, farmers in many countries will con-    charter that loans to private borrowers be govern-
tinue to grow only what they need for their own   ment-guaranteed has, as a practical matter, limited
consumption; without adequate roads and rail-   the extent to which the Bank can make loans direct
roads to reach potential customers, industry will   to industry (see p. 12). In many countries, more- -  -
not flourish; and raw materials beyond the reach  over, the very lack of transportation, power and
of transportation will lie idle. The Bank's lend-    other basic facilities such as the Bank is trying
ing for transportation amounts to $179 million.    to provide, means that industrialization must begin
It includes the financing of highway construction  with many relatively small enterprises. It is diffi-
(in Colombia, Ethiopia and Nicaragua), railway    cult, at a distance, to assess the merits and feasi-
rehabilitation (in Australia, Brazil, India, Paki-    bility of such enterprises; and for that reason the
stan, Thailand and the Union of South Africa),    Bank in a number of cases has helped to organize
and port development (in Peru, South Africa,    local credit institutions and to provide funds for
Thailand and Turkey).                             industry through them. The $70 million of in-
Electric power: In many of the Bank's member    dustrial financing summarized in the accompany-
nations, agricultural and industrial demands for    ing table reflects portions of loans to Australia,
electric power are running ahead of supply; and   Belgium, Finland, the Netherlands and Yugo-
the Bank has lent $391 million for the genera-    slavia. The $12 million attributed in the table
tion and distribution of electricity. Bank-financed    to development banks has been provided to credit
power projects, for the most part still under con-    institutions in Ethiopia, Mexico and Turkey; and
struction, are situated in Australia, Belgium, Fin-    the use made of these funds so far has been almost
land, Iceland, India, South Africa, Southern    entirely for industrial loans.
Rhodesia, Turkey, Yugoslavia, and in six coun-      Program Lending: Some of the Bank's lending
tries of Latin America: Brazil, Chile, Colombia,    in less developed areas has been in support of
El Salvador, Mexico and Uruguay. The Bank's    broad programs covering an entire country or
lending in the Western Hemisphere has been pre-    region. The $80 million shown in the table re-
dominantly for electric power, and the contribu-    flects loans of this kind to Belgium and the Bel-
tion being made to the power capacity of Latin    gian Congo for the development of the Congo,
American countries is noteworthy. In Mexico, for    and to Italy for a program embracing southern
instance, projects financed by the Bank will by    Italy and the Italian islands.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The Bank's technical assistance program is the    been through the general survey mission-a group-
outgrowth of its conviction that external financ-    of experts specially organized to make an intensive
ing, from whatever quarter, will be of most value    firsthand study of a country's resources and for-
in countries that are already making the best pos-    mulate recommendations designed to serve as the
sible use of their own resources. The principal    basis of a long-term development program.
way in which the Bank has endeavored to help        Beginning with the general survey mission to
member countries to achieve this objective has    Colombia in 1949, the Bank has sent out eight
L 10



such groups. As is detailed later in these pages,   sults. After transmittal of the group's report in
during thte fiscal year the Bank transmitted the    1950, a non-partisan development committee of
reports of four of them, to Cuba, Guatemala,   leading private citizens was appointed by the
Iraq and Surinam. At the end of June, the report    Government. Aided by Bank technicians, the
of the mission to Ceylon was being made ready    Committee spent more than a year outlining a
for formal presentation to the Government and    long-term program based on the mission's recom-
the report on Jamaica was in preparation.       mendations.
In size and composition the missions have       The Government is carrying forward this pro-
varied according to the needs of the individual    gram. It has adopted budgetary and banking
country. Usually, they have induded advisers on    reforms, lifted restrictions on imports, relaxed
public finance and general economics, industry,    exchange controls and adopted a liberal and en-
power, transportation, and one or two agricul-   couraging attitude toward foreign capital. Infla-
tural specialists provided by the Food and Agri-   tion has been checked. The Government has
culture Organization. On occasion, experts in    established a National Board of Economic Plan-
public health and education, nominated by the    ning that will serve as the focal point for the
World Fhealth Organization and United Nations    coordination of the country's whole development
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,    effort.
have been added. Additional experts in such fields  The Bank is continuing to provide technical
as mining and irrigation have been recruited, as    assistance in Colombia to help carry on the work
needed, on an international basis. At least one    set in motion by the mission's report. It nominated
or two Bank staff members have served in every   the Economic Adviser chosen to assist the new
case, and. the tendency is to use a larger propor-    planning board. Consultants retained jointly by
tion of Bank personnel. This assures that special-   the Government and the Bank are making studies
ized knowledge accumulated by the Bank will be    of the administrative and financial aspects of a
available to the survey group, and provides greater    proposed reorganization of the railway system and
continuity between the work of the mission and    of ground facilities for civil aviation. In June
subsequent activities of the Bank.              1952 the Bank was preparing to send to Colombia
Whatever the size and composition of the par-   the recommendations of a financial expert, also
ticular group, the broad purpose has been the    jointly retained by the Government and the Bank,
same-to help in working out long-range pro-    for measures to promote investment in industry
grams designed to raise the level of productivity    and to improve the market for government secur-
and to increase the standard of living. The re-   ities.
sults achieved through this type of activity are  In the case of most of the other countries that
difficult ro evaluate. It is still too early to attempt    have been visited by general survey groups, the
any general appraisal; and in many cases, the    mission reports are still too new to have had an
most far-reaching contribution a mission can make    impact similar to that of the Colombian Report.
-may be the intangible effect of its work in chang-    Nevertheless, beginnings are being made. In
ing the approach of the government to its devel-    Guatemala, for instance, construction of a high-
,opment problems. Nevertheless there is encourag-    way between Guatemala City and the Atlantic
ing evidence that the work done by the survey    Coast-a project given top priority by the survey
missions is achieving results in most of the coun-    mission-has been started. A commission has
tries to which they have gone.                  been appointed to make recommendations for re-
In Colombia, for example, the stimulation pro-    organization of the nationalized rural estates, an
vided, directly and indirectly, by the Bank's gen-    essential reform stressed in the recommendations
eral survey mission has already had concrete re-    presented to the Government; and several other
[ 11 ]



proposals are being followed out. In Turkey and    up a development program. The members of the
Iraq, analysis of the most recent development    Bank's staff also helped the Government to ar-
budgets indicates that governmental thinking has    range for other experts to come to Nicaragua for
been substantially influenced by the investment    shorter periods to study agriculture, transporta-
recommendations of the Bank's missions. The    tion, fiscal problems, banking and credit, and the
Government of Cuba has recently framed a com-    organization of a development corporation. Al-
prehensive request for technical assistance, based    though the final report of the special representa-
on the report of the Bank's survey group. In June    tive has not yet been presented, the Government
the Government enacted legislation reorganizing    already has taken action. It has brought into
the National Economic Planning Commission, in    effective operation a National Economic Coun-   -  -
accordance with the recommendations of the    cil, is establishing a development corporation, has
Bank's mission.                                 adopted a five-year development program and a
A variation of the survey mission technique    budget for its first year, and has undertaken
has been employed by the Bank in Nicaragua,    major changes in fiscal, budgetary and tariff poli-
with excellent results. Nicaragua originally asked    cies.
for a general mission. After discussion, it was   During the year the Bank continued to provide
mutually agreed, instead, that the Bank would    a variety of technical assistance in addition to the
provide one or two members of its staff to work    general survey missions. These included: a joint
directly with the Government on drawing up a    Bank-FAO mission to make recommendations for
development program and determining the first    a program of agricultural development in Chile;
steps needed to carry it out.                   the dispatch of specialists to advise on particular
The Bank named a member of its economic    development problems such as the stimulation of
staff as special representative to Nicaragua.    capital markets and the organization of develop-
Assisted by a Bank engineer, he spent from July    ment corporations; and the recruitment of ex-
1951 to May 1952 in Nicaragua helping to draw   perts to serve as economic and financial advisers.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
As already noted, the report of the United    borrowers, who fear that a governmental guar-
States International Development Advisory Board,    antee might lead to interference by the government
published in March 1951, recommended that an    in the conduct of their business. Governments, for
International Finance Corporation be created as   their part, hesitate to guarantee loans to private
an affiliate of the Bank. This Corporation would    enterprises for fear they might be charged with
be authorized to make loans to private enterprise    favoritism-no matter how  useful the private
without governmental guarantee and to make    project may be.
equity investment in participation with private   Secondly, the Bank does not engage in equity
investors.                                      financing. The Bank has sometimes had to aban-
This proposal was prompted by a recognition    don consideration of promising projects because
that the ability of the Bank itself to promote pri-   they required more equity capital than the entre-
vate enterprise is limited. In the first place, the    preneur was able to obtain. Lacking equity funds,
Articles of Agreement require that all loans to   the Bank has had no way to adapt its operations
non-governmental borrowers must be guaranteed    to take advantage of such opportunities.
by the government, or by the central bank or its  The Bank has attempted to overcome these
equivalent, of the country in which the project   limitations by extending credits to private under-
to be financed is located. This discourages private   takings through a development bank or a consor-
[ 12 3



tium of banks. This type of lending has been      portfolio whenever possible at a fair price.
useful to some extent, and the Bank hopes to do     The Corporation is presented in the report as
more of it, Intermediary institutions of this kind,    an experiment in stimulating international private
however, cannot entirely escape the necessity of    investment. In the words of the report, "Although
governmental sanction; and the extent to which    the extent to which the Corporation could gener-
borrowed funds can be used for equity invest-    ate such flow of capital can be determined only
ment is obviously limited. Moreover, these insti-    by experience, there are good reasons for con-
tutions are not well placed to attract the interest    cluding that over a period of years the Corpora-
and participation of foreign firms and investors    tion would be able to give a substantial stimulus
'in the projects they finance.                    to the growth of private enterprise and thus con-
During the past year the Bank's staff studied    tribute significantly to the further development
the proposal for creating an International Finance    of the Bank's member countries."
Corporation, and in May 1952 the management         The President of the Bank sent a copy of this
of the Bank made public a report on the matter.    report, through  the Secretary-General of the
The report envisages that the capital of the    United Nations, to the Economic and Social Coun-
Corporation would be subscribed by member gov-    cil as had been requested by it. In transmitting
ernments and not by the Bank. The purpose of    the report, he called attention to the fact that
the Corporation would be to promote economic   the Executive Directors of the Bank, in authoriz-
development through the stimulation of private    ing its transmittal, did not express any opinion
investment, "by bringing together investment op-    on the merits of the proposal or any opinion on
portunities, capital (both domestic and foreign)    behalf of the governments they represent. In
and experienced management, and by helping to    June the Economic and Social Council considered
finance prjwvate productive undertakings through    the report and adopted a resolution requesting
equity investment and loans without government    the Bank to continue its study in consultation with
guarantee." The Corporation would not accept    member governments and  interested  business
responsibility for managing an enterprise in which
it invested, and would not hold a controlling     groups, and to inform the Council in 1953 of the
equity interest in it. No special immunity or    results of its study and of any action it might
status would attach to any enterprise solely by    take on the proposal. The Bank intends to ex-
reason of the Corporation's participation. The    plore this matter further with all interested
Corporation would attempt to revolve its funds    groups in order to determine the desirability and
as rapidly as possible by selling securities in its    feasibility of carrying this project forward.
[ 13 ]



Chapter II - The Bank's Operations
This section is a country-by-country description    country is a list by fiscal year of all loans made
of the operations of the Bank in the past fiscal   to that country. Unless otherwise indicated, gov-
year. For each country in which the Bank was    ernments are the borrowers; loans to other bor-
active, information is given on one or more of the    rowers are government-guaranteed. The interest
following topics: loans made; negotiations and    rates shown include the 1%  commission which,
surveys looking to possible loans; reports of prog-    under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allo-
ress on Bank-financed projects; and technical    cated to the Bank's Special Reserve. Additional
assistance. Brief mentions are also made of com-    details, such as maturity dates of loans, amounts
pletely disbursed loans more fully described in    disbursed and repayments of principal, are shown
previous Annual Reports.                        in a tabular summary of loans in Appendix D,
Preceding the account of operations in each    beginning on page 48.
AFRICA
Belgian Congo                                   result of the expansion in both the public and
Fiscal $40 million 25-year 41/2% Loan of Sep-  private sectors of the economy, exports are ex-
1952: tember 13, 1951 to the Belgian Congo   pected to rise by 30% to 50%0 during the life of
for development. Made simultaneously   the Plan.
with loan of $30 million to Belgium
(see page 21).                           The large expenditures contemplated will in-
The loan to the Belgian Congo was the first    crease the demand for imports of food and con-
made by the Bank to an overseas territory of a    sumer goods as well as capital equipment. The
member country. The purpose of the loan, and    Bank's $40 million loan to the Congo will help
of the $30 million loan made simultaneously to    to pay for part of the imports from countries other
Belgium, is to help carry out the Ten Year Devel-   than Belgium  during the two years beginning
opment Plan for the Congo. This Plan was put    July 1, 1951. The franc equivalent of the Bank's
into effect in 1950. Public investment under the    $30 million loan to Belgium will be made avail-
Plan is expected to reach the equivalent of $660    able to the Congo and used to pay for imports
million; and private investment will probably    from Belgium.
equal this amount. The Bank's loans relate to      Because of the wide variety of goods which
Government expenditures totaling 11 billion Bel-    will be imported, it was impracticable to base
gian francs (equivalent to $220 million) which  disbursements from the Bank's loan on purchases
are to be made in the two years July 1, 1951 to    of specified goods. Disbursement of the loan,
June 30, 1953. Of this total, 7.1 billion francs    therefore, is geared both to the rate of investment
will be spent for transport and communications,    under the general plan and to expenditures on
2.1 billion for housing and public health, and    railways, ports, waterways and roads by the
1.8 billion for electricity, water supply, education    Office d'Exploitation des Transports Coloniaux
and research.                                   (Otraco), a public organization which administers
Private investment during the 10 years is ex-    the larger part of the Congo transport network.
pected in mining and manufacturing, large-scale    To date $6.1 million has been disbursed under
agriculture, commerce and electric power. As a    the loan.
[14'



Egypt                                             Southern Rhodesia
On the basis of the report of a Bank mission       Fiscal $28 million 25-year 43/4% Loan of Feb-
which visited Egypt in the summer of 1951, the       1952: ruary 27, 1952 to the Colony of Southern
whlch vlsted Egyp m the smmer or 951, theRhodesia for electric power development.
Bank informed the Government that it was willing    IO ober 195  a Bank missionmentt
In October 1951 a Bank mission went to
to consider the financing of a number of develop-                .   .    . 
ment projects, subject to certain technical anda   otenRoei oivsiaetepsiiiyo
fina    rojctissub. Tet    Bain thas  carand      financing part of its program of development. As
financial conditions. The Bank has arranged to    arsl twsdcddta  h   akcudbs
send an engineering consultant to Egypt in the    at                               n
second half of 1952 to study the capital works    aid in carrying out this plan by financing equi
ment needed for expanding the production and
program-of the Egyptian State Railways.           distribution of electric power. A loan of $28
Ethiopia                                          million, guaranteed by the United Kingdom, was
made for this purpose in February 1952.
Fisc.al $5 million 20-year 4% Loan of Septem-    Southern Rhodesia's four-year development plan,
1951: ber 13, 1950 for rehabilitation of roads.
$2 million 20-year 4% Loan of Septem-    extending to March 31, 1955, contemplates public
ber 13, 1950 for Development Bank.       investment equivalent to about $280 million. Pri-
$1.5 million 20-year 4%o Loan of Febru-  vate investment is expected to equal this amount.
ary 19, 1951 for rehabilitation and      Most of the public investment is to be in basic
development of telecommunications.
services such as transportation, electricity, com-
Almost all the road-making equipment required   munications and water supply. Railways and elec-
for the highway project being financed by the    tric power development will account for the largest
Bank's $5 million loan has been delivered, and    amounts.
work has been carried out on important sections     The Bank's $28 million loan will help finance
of road that connect producing areas with Addis    the purchase of imported equipment and materials
Ababa and 'the Eritrean border. The Imperial    required for power expansion during the three
Highway Authority estimates that the three-year    years ending March 31, 1955. The expansion
program for 1951-54 will result in rehabilitation  consists of the installation of about 230,000 kw.
of about 900 miles of road and light maintenance  of new thermal generating capacity, the erection
on an additional 1,800 miles.                     of some 2,000 miles of transmission lines, and the
Since it started operations in May 1951, the    installation of distributing equipment. Most of
-   ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~         .       t~~~~~~he equipment to be bought abroad will come
Development Bank of Ethiopia has entered into     to
agreements for four loans requiring about $555,-   from the Uted Kgdom, though some wll come
000 cf foreign exchange. Nearly all of this    from  the Union of South Africa and a small
amount, to be drawn from the $2 million loan      amount from the United States.
-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~South Africa has approved the use in the loan
of the International Bank, will be spent to import    o S
of £1,000,000 from her capital subscription to the
machinery and raw cotton for a textile project.    Bank, for purchases Southern Rhodesia intends to
The remainder is for the purchase of agricultural    make in the Union. South Africa has also agreed
machinery and equipment, and for woodworking    to consider making an additional amount avail-
machinery. The Development Bank has also made     able later this year.
-several loans requiring only local currency.
several lareinA large part of the capital for the development
The telecommunications project has not yet    of Southern Rhodesia is being provided by the
been started. The Bank has been in consultation   London market. This investment will cause a
with the Government regarding means for put-    drain on the United Kingdom's foreign-exchange
ting the project into effective operation.        reserves: much of the equipment which will be
115]



exported to Southern Rhodesia under the program  in payment for turbo-generators, boilers and other
might otherwise have earned foreign exchange;    equipment for two new power stations at Hex
and some of the materials going into the equip-    River and Vierfontein and for the stations already
ment must be bought with foreign exchange.    operating at Vaal, Congella and Witbank. In
The Bank's loan will be disbursed in dollars for    spite of delays in deliveries, the %vork is going
purchases in the United Kingdom, and will help   well.
offset the drain on her foreign-exchange reserves.  About one-half of the $20 million transport
Other British Territories in Africa              loan has been spent for the purchase of rolling
Throughout the year the Bank has kept in close    stock and other equipment for the expansion and
touch with the Colonial Office regarding Bank    improvement of the system operated by the South
assistance for colonial development in Africa.    African Railways and Harbors Administration.
Bank representatives visited Kenya, Northern     Owing to delays in the delivery of rolling stock
Rhodesia and Nyasaland in November 1951. A        from  the United Kingdom  and Germany and
Bank mission is to visit the Rhodesias in July 1952,    difficulties in buying rails and steel sleepers in
and some months later a mission will visit other    France, progress has been slower than was ex-
British territories in East and West Africa.     pected. Difficulties have also been caused by a
Union of South Africa                            shortage of skilled labor. Nevertheless, the double
Fiscal $30 million 20-year 4% Loan of janu-    tracking of some lines and improvements on the
1951: ary 23, 1951 to the Electricity Supply  others, the purchase of new locomotives, and the
Commission for power development pro-   construction of new workshops are to be completed
gram.                                   in 1953. This will help the South African Rail-
$20 million 15-year 3Y49o Loan of Janu-
ary 23, 1951 for expansion of trans-    ways and Harbors Administration to deal with
portation facilities.                   the heavy increase in traffic brought about by the
About one-third of the $30 million loan to the    economic expansion during the war and the im-
Electricity Supply Commission has been disbursed  mediate postwar years.
ASIA
President's Visit to South and Southeast Asia    a program of construction, with an estimate of
The President of the Bank visited Pakistan,    costs. The engineers have returned to their coun-
tries to carry on their studies. They will meet
March 1952.                                      again in Karachi, together with Bank engineers,
in November 1952.
Use of the Waters of the Indus River System      Ceylon
The Governments of India and Pakistan ac-        The Bank organized a general survey mission
cepted an invitation from the President of the    to study Ceylon's economic potentialities and make
Bank to send engineers to the Bank to study,    recommendations to assist the Government in
together with Bank engineers, possible technical    drawing up a long-range development program.
measures to increase the supplies of water avail-    The mission was composed of twelve members,
able from the Indus system of rivers for purposes    five of whom were from the Bank's staff. The
of economic development. Meetings began on       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
May 7, 1952 and continued until June 18. Agree-    Nations nominated the agricultural technician and
ment was reached on field studies to be under-    paid part of his expenses. The public health
taken by the engineers of the two countries as a    expert was nominated by the World Health
first step toward drawing up and recommending    Organization.
[16 ]



The group arrived in Ceylon early in October    jungle in India can be successfully carried out with
1951 and stayed about ten weeks. The mission's    mechanical equipment.
report will be published simultaneously in Co-      The first of the three 50,000 kw. generating
lombo and in Washington early in September    units of the Bokaro thermal power plant in the
1952.                                             Damodar Valley is expected to come into opera-
India                                             tion in November 1952 and the entire plant by
March 1953. Work on the Konar dam, where a
Fiscal $34 million 15-year 4% Loan of August              .          .    . t
1950: 18, 1949 for railway rehabilitation; re-  hydroelectric power station will be built, was re-
duced to $32.8 million on May 16, 1950  tarded because of changes in design and delays
at request of borrower.                 in the delivery of equipment. The dam should be
$10 million 7-year 31/2% Loan of Sep-
tember 29, 1949 for importation of       completed by the middle of 1953.
agricultural machinery; reduced to $8.5    A Bank mission visited India for seven weeks
million on July 27, 1951 at request of   in late 1951 to gain firsthand knowledge of the
borrower.
$18.5 million 20-year 4% Loan of April  planning, financing and execution of the develop-
18, 1950 for power development project.  ment program set forth in the Draft Outline of
The Bank's $34 million loan of 1949 was used    India's First Five-Year Plan. On the basis of the
primarily for the purchase of loconiotives. There    mission's report, and of discussions by the Presi-
has been a continued improvement in the operat-    dent of the Bank during his visit in February 1952,
ing efficiency of the railways in the past year; this    the Bank has expressed its willingness to consider
and higher fares have brought about a substantial    loans for selected projects.
improvrement in railway finances.                   A number of technical missions already have
The agricultural machinery loan was made to    gone to India to make an examination of these
enable the Central Tractor Organization of the    projects. In May 1952 Bank representatives car-
Goverwnment to clear large areas of land in central    ried on discussions of possible assistance to the
Industrial Finance Corporation, a private institu-
India of a deep-rooted weed called kans grass,    ho  fo   rvdn    eimadln-emcei
an  t. deeo.ehd  o cern  ugeln                tion for providing medium and long-term credit
and tc dlevelop methods for clearing Jungle land  toidsr.Iisepcdthtngiaosfr
in northern India and opening it to cultivation.    a lndto the Copor    at    begintson.
Some of the organizational and managerial prob-     In June 1952 oatmme of teBnk stfwe
lems that had slowed the C.T.O. 's progress on    to In June 1952 a member of the Bank's staff went
kans grass clearance have been solved, and there    of  a  tegrated      p    lopment chmetin
has been a definite improvement in the adminis-    th DamoderValey  Aow   ineJune a hmis in
thle Damodar Valley. Also in June, a mission, or-
tration of the project.                           ganized by the Bank and headed by the Chairman
In central India, 500,000 acres have now been   of The First Boston Corporation of New York,
cleared of kans grass. In the 1951-52 season,    arrived in India to study technical and financial
the goal of 210,000 acres was exceeded. Better    problems of the iron and steel industry, and to see
results might have been achieved if all the State    on what basis the Bank might be able to assist in
Governments had made large blocks of land avail-    expanding iron and steel production.
able to the C.T.O. to permit operations to be
carried out economically, and if one type of tractor,    Iran
being used under difficult conditions, had not had  After expressions of interest by Iran and the
mechanical failures. Jungle-clearance operations    United Kingdom, the Bank offered in November
in the Himalayan foothills have resulted in the   1951 to try to work out interim arrangements for
reclamation and plowing of nearly 18,000 acres,   the restoration of oil operations in south Iran.
and have demonstrated that the clearance of    After a preliminary visit to Iran by a Bank official
[ 17 ]



and a technical consultant, a mission headed by   This proposal was discussed in Teheran for
the Vice President of the 'Bank went in February    several weeks, and also in London. Understanding
to Teheran and London. There, conversations    in general terms was reached on a number of
were held with the Governments concerned and    questions, but on several major points there was
with the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company.             no agreement. In the absence of real progress in
It was the hope of the mission that it could    reconciling views on these points, it was mutually
work out an agreement acceptable to the two    decided to recess the talks, with the understanding
parties to the dispute. As a basis for discussion    that they could be resumed later if it should appear
the Bank put forward a proposal which included    that a basis for agreement could be reached.
the following points: For a limited period of
about two years, and without prejudice to the    Iraq
legal rights of the interested parties, the Bank   Fircal $12.8 million 15-year 3¾4%o Loan of
would operate the oil properties through a         1950: June 15, 1950 for flood control.
management headed by neutrals. The Bank would     Work on the flood-control project began early
sell the crude oil and products for the most part   in 1952. The project is designed to protect Bagh-
to the principal purchaser, the Anglo-Iranian Oil    dad and the surrounding agricultural area against
Company, at prices and on terms to be mutually    periodic floods of the Tigris River, by diverting
agreed upon by the Company and Iran. Part of    flood waters into a large uninhabited depression,
the proceeds of sale would be retained by the    northwest of Baghdad, known as the Wadi
Bank pending final settlement. The Bank, as a    Tharthar. In October 1951 a contract was awarded
neutral institution of which both parties are mem-    to a British firm for the excavation of a 33-mile
bers, would act in the interests of both. It would    long diversion channel into the depression, and
have full freedom of action, during the interim  work on this first phase of the project has now
period, to manage the properties without inter-    begun.
ference so as to achieve the greatest possible    The Bank's general survey mission, headed by
efficiency and produce a substantial flow of oil to    Dr. Ivar Rooth, presented its report to the Iraqi
the purchaser and of revenues to Iran. The Bank    Government in February 1952. The mission was
would undertake to limit the employment of    impressed by Iraq's potentialities for economic
foreign technicians to a minimum consistent with    development; and it outlined a five-year develop-
efficient operations; and the employment of British    ment program  calling for a total expenditure
technical personnel, among others, would not be    equivalent to $470 million. It reported that Iraq's
exduded. Appropriate provisions would be in-    three principal resources-land, water and oil-
cluded to protect the Bank's resources against    can ultimately maintain a much larger population
risks not incident to its usual operations, such as    with a considerably higher standard of living.
claims for damage to oil properties. The Bank    Rapidly rising revenues from oil make it possible
would undertake to see that, if necessary, funds    for the Government to undertake a large-scale
would be provided for the resumption of opera-    development program over the next few years.
tions; this would be accomplished in such a way    Seventy percent of these revenues have been
as to avoid affecting the Bank's credit.        assigned to the Iraqi Development Board, an
This proposal, if it had been found acceptable,    autonomous agency established in 1950 for the
would have given the parties to the controversy    planning and financing of development.
an opportunity to work out a final settlement. It  Economic development, in the mission's opinion,
would also have permitted a resumption of the    should put major emphasis on agriculture. The
flow of oil and oil revenues without any sacrifice    most urgent needs are flood control and irrigation
of legal rights on either side.                 to bring additional land under cultivation, drain-
[18]



age to improve existing crop land, and the intro-    able the railways to keep pace with the growth of
duction of better agricultural techniques.      the Pakistan economy.
In the industrial field the mission suggested the  The railways urgently need rolling stock and
expansion of certain existing industries and the    repair facilities to replace equipment which de-
creation of new ones. In particular, the mission    teriorated from heavy use and insufficient mainte-
suggested the establishment of a chemical plant    nance during and after World War II. The loan
which would use natural gas from the Kirkuk oil    will be used to finance the purchase of diesel
field to make fertilizer and other valuable chemi-    electric locomotives, passenger cars, freight cars,
workshop equipment, locomotive boilers and cross
cal product:s.                                  ties. This equipment will be purchased in the
The mission found the transport system gener-    United States, France and Canada. The French
ally adequate for present needs; but for the    Government has released to the Bank for this
future it recommended the standardization of rail-   loan the equivalent of $12 million in French francs
way gauges to be carried out in conjunction with    from its capital subscription to the Bank.
a comprehensive replacement program, and the      The agricultural loan will be used to help
building of an adequate network of surfaced    reclaim 660,000 acres of waste land in the Thal
roads. Throughout its report the mnission stressed    desert, an area in the northeastern part of West
the importance of increasing the productivity of    Pakistan. It will be used to finance the import
workers by providing better education and effec-    of tractors and ancillary equipment to dear, plow,
tive measures for reducing the incidence of    harrow and seed the land and to construct irri-
debilitating diseases.                          gation ditches. The Government has already
In June 1952 a Bank representative visited Iraq.    constructed most of the irrigation canals planned
He discussed with the Governmnent the recom-    for the area and is now building roads.
mendationis of the mission's report and the action  This reclamation project is planned for com-
taken by the Government to carry them into effect.    pletion in about five years. The cleared land will
be divided into 15-acre farms on which 44,000
Lebanon                                         families, mostly refugees, will be settled. In-
In May 1952 a Bank representative visited    creased crop production will consist mainly of
Beirut and had exploratory talks with the Govern-    wheat and cotton.
ment on the financing of development projects.    The Bank is now discussing with the Govern-
Further discussions of the type and extent of    ment the financing of a paper-mill project in
possible ]3ank assistance are in prospect.      East Pakistan and is exchanging views with the
Pakistan                                        Government on other projects which may be the
basis for further financing.
Fiscal $27.2 million 15-year 45/8%  Loan of
1952: March 27, 1952 for railway rehabilitation.  In May 1952 the Government requested the
$3.25 million 7-year 41/8% Loan of June  Bank to help organize a Technical Research Insti-
13, 1952 for agricultural machinery.   tute in Pakistan. The Institute would do applied
The railway loan will help finance a program  research designed primarily to promote industrial
for the rehabilitation, improvement and moderni-    development, and would be sponsored jointly by
zation of the Government-owned railways in both    the Bank and the U. N. Technical Assistance
East and West Pakistan. The program is to make    Administration. The Bank expects to send a
up arrears in replacement, start substitution of    representative to Pakistan in the second half of
diesel for steam locomotives, improve the perma-    1952 to explore, for itself and UNTAA, the
nent way and provide additional facilities to en-    feasibility of establishing the proposed Institute.
[19]



Syria                                             The Royal Irrigation Department has now com-
In June 1951 the Bank advised the Government    pleted the design for a barrage on the Chao Phya
that it was prepared to negotiate loans which had    River to regulate the flow of water in the River
been requested for drainage and irrigation, high-    and its branches and in the canal system on the
way improvement and the development of the    central plain. The design of the barrage has been
Port of Latakia; and in September 1951 negotia-    approved by the United States Bureau of Reclama-
tion procedures were discussed with the Syrian    tion, which is the Department's engineering con-
Governor of the Bank.                           sultant. A firm of British contractors has been
In May 1952 a Bank representative visited    employed to supervise construction. Access roads
Damascus. The Government informed him it was    and a construction camp have already been built
ready to open negotiations for loans for the pur-    and clearing and foundation work has begun.
poses mentioned. The Government said it also    Nearly all the orders for equipment have been
wished the Bank to consider, at the same time,    placed, but delays in the delivery of equipment
the financing of additional projects. The Bank is    have set back construction of the dam by about
studying the Government's proposals.            a year.
The $4.4 million loan for developing the Port
Thailand                                        of Bangkok became effective at the end of August
Fiscal $3 million 15-year 334%o Loan of Octo-  1951. The greater part of the loan is being used
i951: ber 27, 1950 for railway rehabilitation.  to finance the foreign-exchange cost of deepening
$18 million 20-year 4% Loan of October  the channel through the sand bar at the mouth of
27, 1950 for irrigation project.
$4.4 million 15-year 3¾4%  Loan of     the Chao Phya River, so that vessels of about
October 27, 1950 for port development.  10,000 tons can enter the river and berth at the
Almost two-thirds of the $3 million railway   port. A  dredging contract was awarded to a
loan is being spent to rehabilitate and re-equip    Dutch company; deepening of the channel may
the railway workshops at Makkasan, near Bang-    be completed by early 1953. The port develop-
kok. Plans for reconstructing the workshops,    ment project provides also for the improvement of
together with a list of required equipment, were    cargo-handling facilities at the Port of Bangkok.
prepared by engineering consultants retained by    Orders for equipment needed for this phase of
the Government. A Bank engineer visited Thai-   the project are now being placed.
land in June 1952 and approved the plans and      In March 1952 the Government and the Bank
the list of equipment required. Orders have been    agreed that the alleviation of the power shortage
placed for nearly half of the equipment needed    should be given first priority in Thailand's further
for the workshops, and for the signaling equip-    development plans. A commission has been set
ment that will consume most of the remainder of    up to plan and coordinate the activities of the
the loan.                                       Government in the development of electric power.
AUSTRALIA
Fiscal $100 million 25-year 41/4%  Loan of   next nine months. A portion of the loan has been
1951: August 22, 1950 for development pro-   spent on capital goods for public projects of the
gram.                                  Commonwealth and State authorities. A large
The Bank's loan to Australia was to be spent    part, however, has been spent on capital goods
over a period of about two years. So far, about    needed by farmers and private business concerns.
two-thirds of it has been disbursed and it is    Nearly all of these goods have been distributed
expected that the rest will be withdrawn over the    through normal commercial channels.
[20]



Tractors and other farm  machinery, such as    in service. Bank-financed mining machinery, such
balers, grain combines and harvesters, valued at    as coal cutters, conveyors and drills for privately
$18 million, have been imported and retailed by    owned mines in New South Wales, has helped
commercial distributors. Industrial crawler trac-    to raise coal production. About $11 million has
tors and earth-moving equipment valued at $13    been spent on power plants of a total capacity
million, have gone in the main to public authori-    of 150,000 kw. which are being purchased for
ties, or to private contractors working for public    the State Electricity Commissions of New South
authorities, for use on projects in various parts of    Wales, Victoria and Queensland. In these States
Australia. About $3 million worth of earth-    there is an acute shortage of electric power.
moving equipment, for instance, will be used on    A Bank mission was in Australia in March and
the Big Eildon dam project for the State Rivers    April 1952, and the President of the Bank visited
and Water Supply Commission of Victoria. The    Australia at the invitation of the Commonwealth
project will make possible the irrigation of 360,000  Prime Minister for a week during this period.
additicinal acres in the Goulburn Valley and will    Discussions covered economic developments of
increas,e electric generating capacity by 120,000 kw.                                 '
Bank-financed imports of locomotives and loco-    the past two years, the part which the Bank's loan
motive parts will help bring into -service 1 1 new has  played, and the possibility of further Bank
diesel-electric locomotives for the Commonwealth    lending. The Prime Minister and the President
Railways, 20 for the New South Wales Railways,    of the Bank had further discussions of loan possi-
17 for the Victoria Railways, and 10 for Queens-    bilities when the Prime Minister visited Washing-
land Railways. Twenty steam locomotives have    ton in May 1952 and again in June. At the end
also been financed for the New South Wales    of the fiscal year negotiations were far advanced
Railways. Some of these locomotives are already    for a new loan of $50 million.
EUROPE
Belg,ium                                         raw materials and foodstuffs, and increasing the
Fiscal $16 million 20-year 41/4%  Loan of     expenditure of foreign exchange. The loan was
19419: March 1, 1949 for steel plants and     aimed at reducing the pressure on Belgium's
electric power.                         foreign-exchange reserves during the two years
Fiscal $30 million 25-year 41/2%o Loan of     ending September 30, 1953.
19.52: September 13, 1951 for development of
the Belgian Congo. Made simultaneously     The loan is being disbursed to the National
with loan of $40 million to the Belgian  Bank of Belgium, which credits the equivalent in
Congo (see page 14).                    Belgian francs to the Belgian Government. This
The $30 million loan of September 1951 was    equivalent will be available to the Congo to
the first made to a member country to assist it in    finance expenditures under the Ten Year Plan.
promDting the development of an overseas terri-    Disbursement of the loan is geared to the rate
tory. The loan will aid in carrying out the Ten  of investment in the Plan in general. Disburse-
Year Development Plan for the Belgian Congo      ment is also related more specifically to expendi-
(see page 14). Belgium has long been the leading    tures for transport and related installations by the
supplier of manufactured goods to the Congo,    Office d'Exploitation des Transports Coloniaux
and she will provide most of the capital equip-    (Otraco).
ment required to execute the Congo program.        The two steel plants and the thermal power
Additional demand for goods for the Congo    plant financed by the $16 million loan of 1949
stimulates economic activity in Belgium-raising  have been completed and are in operation. The
employment and income, increasing imports of    thermal power plant, of the Union des Centrales
[21 ]



Electriques de Liege-Namur-Luxembourg (Lina-         million loan of August 1949 for modernization
lux), started operating at full capacity (100,000   and expansion, and also benefited from a second
kw.) early in 1952.                                 loan of $2.3 million made in October 1949, mainly
Denmark                                             to aid forest operations. The new loan will help
these industries to buy much needed modern
Fiscal $40 million 25-year 4¼%4S Loan of
1948: August 22, 1947 for reconstruction.        equipment to increase their capacity for making
The loan made in 1947 financed the import of    the more highly processed products, such as chemi-
essential gods which contributed to Denmark's    cal pulp, newsprint, paper, paperboard  and
recovery in the immediate postwar period. This    cardboard.
recovery has continued, but Denmark's dollar           More electric power is needed to keep pace
p.osiio  has reainued diffcul.  Teconry con-    with, and make possible, Finland's continued in-
positiones t   relhaviloneddifficult.The country con dustrial growth. The Bank's loan will provide
ttnues to rely heavlly onimports of raw materials
fromes thredollar aea, an i  eduction  in thers     equipment for four hydroelectric generating plants
from   the dollar area, and reductions in these    in northern and eastern Finland and one steam
imports would cut down production. Yet Denmark        enerating plant in western Finland. By 1957
has not been able to increase dollar earmings       t
rapidly enough, partly because of restrictions on    teelants  wil havadded 27,0 i           wn  to
the entry of dairy products into the United States.       present capacity by nearly a third and raising it
Denmark's dollar problem will remain particularly   faresent c ty bnewarl aethIr andrision   it
acut beauseof argedolar lanswhic  maure far above the prewar level. In addition, trans-
acute because of large dollar loans which mature    mission lines will be erected to bring power to
in the next three years.                            the principal industrial centers in the southern
Late in 1951 two Bank representatives visited     and western parts of the country. The Bank's loan
Copenhagen for consultations with the Govern-       will be used for the import of construction ma-
ment on payments problems. The Bank will con-    chiner  aluminum  transmission cables, turbines,
tinue its close collaboration with the Governrment   generators and switch gear
on this and other matters of common interest.       genro   and sic  ager.
The $1 millilon for agriculture will pay for
Finland                                             imported tractors and earth-moving equipment
Fiscal $12.5 million  15-year 4%o Loan of        to be used for dearing land and building forest
1950: August 1, 1949 to the Bank of Finland      roads. It will aid a Government program begun
for development of power, wood-products   in 1940 for increasing agricultural and forestry
industries and limestone powder produc-
tion.                                      output. This program has also been important in
$2.3 million 2-year 3% Loan of October    resettling farmers from Karelia.
17, 1949 for equipment for timber pro-       The recent loan followed a review of economic
duction; reduced at the request of the
borrower to $2.1 million on September      developments and investment needs made by a
30, 1951.                                  Bank mission in November 1951. A  smaller
Fiscal $20 million 18-year 4¼4%o' Loan of April  supplemental loan in Swedish kronor to cover the
1952: 30, 1952 to the Bank of Finland for
further development of power and wood-     purchase of machinery in Sweden for the wood-
products industries and for agricultural   products industries is now  under consideration.
improvement.                               The Swedish Government has been asked to re-
Of the $20 million loaned to Finland in April    lease part of its subscription to the Bank's capital
1952, $9.5 million is for the wood-products indus-    for this purpose.
tries, $9.5 million for electric power production,     More than four-fifths of the $12.5 million loan
and $1 million for agriculture.                     of August 1949 has been disbursed and the loan
The wood-products industries had previously       will probably be withdrawn in full by the end of
obtained $10.45 million of the Bank's $12.5         1952.
[22]



The $2.3 million loan of October 1949 was    situation by broadening the country's economic
repaid in full in 1951. This loan financed the     base.
purchase of forestry equipment to help Finland       The loan made in 1951 is helping to finance
to increase her exports of sawn timber to Western  hydroelectric projects on the Sog and Laxa Rivers.
Europe.                                            These are several months behind in construction
because of delays in procurement and technical
Fiscance   $250 million 30-year 4V4%Loan of Maydifficulties. The estimated cost of the projects
Fiscal $250 million 30-year 41/%  Loan of May   has risen by about 20%0, mainly as the result of
1947: 9, 1947 to Credit National for recon-     ial prien  rises.
struction.                                 ternal price rises.
This loan was completely disbursed during the   Approximately two-fifths of each of the above
This loan was completely disbursed during the    loans has already  been  disbursed, the Bank
second half of 1947, and financed imports of a
making use of sterling raised in the London
wide range of raw materials, fuels and equip-    market in May 1951 and of parts of the capital
ment. It helped to maintain economic activity    subscriptions of the United Kingdom, France,
and employment, facilitated the rehabilitation of    Denmark and Norway.
essential transport facilities, and made possible    The Bank has discussed with the Icelandic
new construction in heavy industry, notably for    Government ways of channeling investment to
the production of steel.                           achieve better balanced economic development.
Iceland                                            An officer of the Bank visited Iceland in October
Fiscal £875,000 ($2,450,000) 22-year 438%       1951 to advise the Government on the organi-
1951: Loan of June 20, 1951 for power de-       zation and functions of a new investment insti-
velopment.                                tution to be established in general accordance with
Fiscal £360,000 ($1,008,000) 22-year 41/2%      the recommendations of an earlier Bank mission.
1952: Loan of November 1, 1951 for agri-
culture.                                  Italy
The agricultural loan will pay for the import       Fiscal $10 million 25-year 41/2%  Loan of
of cement, steel, timber, fencing materials, seed     1952: October 10, 1951 to the Cassa per Opere
Straordinarie di Pubblico Interesse nell'
and fertilizer, which are needed by farmers for              Italia Meridionale (Cassa per il Mezzo-
building or improving farm  houses and other                 giorno) for development of the South
fambuilding s or  imp oving ednadfecn                        of Italy.
farm  buiLdings and for re-seeding and fencing       The loan is to aid in carrying out the Govern-
grasslands. The equivalent of the loan in Icelandic  ment's 10-year plan for the development of
kr6nur wjill be set aside in a special account at the  southern Italy, induding Sicily and Sardinia. The
Agricultural Bank for loans to farmers.            plan covers the period between July 1, 1950 and
In the last few  years both Government and       June 30, 1960. It is administered by the Cassa per
private agencies have become concerned at the    il Mezzogiorno and supervised by a special com-
neglect oif farm lands and the fall in agricultural    mittee of the Council of Ministers. Investment is
output. Exports of live sheep, frozen lamb, wool    planned at the rate of 100 billion lire ($160
and other agricultural products, which once ac-    million) a year from  funds allocated by the
counted for a fourth of Iceland's exports, now are    Italian Treasury. Three-fourths of the total 10-
only a tvelfth. Iceland has become excessively    year appropriations of 1,000 billion lire ($1.6
dependent on the fishing industry; and this de-    billion) will be used in agriculture. Of the amount
pendence is a weakness which has been emphasized   for agriculture, the largest part will be spent on
in recent years by sharp fluctuations in the price    irrigation, drainage and dearance of land. It is
of fish and in the size of catches. The program    estimated that the area under irrigation in southern
of agricultural development will help correct this    Italy will be increased tenfold. Other projects
[23]



~~~~~~~~~ *   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~   F                                                                                                 J   \                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



a wide range of goods, induding industrial equip-    plants and plants for processing vegetable oils),
ment and merchant ships.                           the establishment of new  ones, and additional
The 1948 loans to four shipping companies for    public use of electricity. When completed, the
the purchase of ships in the United States have    power-generating and transmission facilities will
been reduced to $7.8 million by repayments. All    be turned over for operation to a private corpora-
of these loans were sold by the Bank with its    tion. Both the Government and private capital
guarantee in 1948 and 1949.                        will share in the ownership of this corporation,
The $15 million loan of 1949, now reduced to     but the majority of the stock will be held by
$7.9 million, was made to the Finance Corpora-    private interests.
tion for National Reconstruction (Herstelbank)       The port and grain-storage projects are be-
to provide foreign exchange for manufacturing      hind schedule. Construction of the 29 steel sheds
industries in the Netherlands. Of the 35 projects    for grain storage is now well under way and
for which the loan was used, seven were com-    should be completed this summer. Some of the
pleted by the end of 1951 and 21 more are    inland silos may also be completed this year.
expected to be completed by the end of 1952.       Engineering studies required for the three large
Turkey                                             port silos have not yet been completed. Technical
Fiscal $3.9 million 18-year 3k8%  Loan of       studies on several of the port development and
1951: July 7, 1950 for grain-storage facilities.  construction projects have been finished and con-
$.12.5 million 25-year 4¼14%  Loan of     struction and cargo-handling equipment is being
July 7, 1950 for development of ports.    ordered. The delay in the execution of these
$9 million  15-year 33Y4%  Loan of
October 19, 1950 to Industrial Develop-   projects has hampered the handling of Turkey's
ment Bank of Turkey for development       recent large surplus of grain.
of private industry.                        The Industrial Development Bank has steadily
Fiscal $25.2 million 25-year 43/4%  Loan of     increased the volume of its loans. By the end of
19A2: June 18, 1952 for multi-purpose dam
and power facilities on the Seyhan River.  May 1952, 15 months after the start of operations,
The loan made in 1952 will finance the foreign-    it had approved loans amounting to 22 million
exchange costs of a dam, a power-generating plant,    Turkish liras (about $7 million). Five of these
and power transmission lines to industrial centers.    projects, requiring foreign exchange equivalent to
The dam will help control floods and will provide  about $1.9 million, were submitted to the Inter-
water for irrigation and electric power in the     national Bank in accordance with the loan agree.
Adana Plain, a productive agricultural and indus-    ment and were approved. One of these loans will
trial area in south-central Turkey. The dam iS
help build a cotton-ginning and oil-seed plant; one
the key to the Seyhan Project, a comprehensive
plan being carried out by the Turkish Government    w
for the control and use of the waters of the       are for cotton textile mills.
Seyhan River. The economic development of the        In August 1951 the Turkish Government signed
Adana Plain has been lirited by ruinous seasonal    a contract with the Development Bank by which
floods, an inadequate and irregular supply of    the latter will make loans to private enterprises
w ater for cultivation, and a serious shortage of    from T. L. 54.5 million of ECA counterpart funds.
electric power.
The power plant at the dam will have an initial    Yugoslavia
capacity of 36,000 kw. Housing will be provided       1950: 17, 1949 for equipment for timber pro-
fDr an additional 18,000 kw. generator which may             duction.
le installed later. The power generated will make     Fiscal $28 million equivalent 25-year 41/2%
of existing industries (textile  1952: Loan of October 11, 1951 for power,
possible the growth of existig mdustnes (textile             mining, industrial and other projects.
[ 25



In October 1951 the Bank lent Yugoslavia an       tries which authorized the use or their capital.
amount in various currencies equivalent to $28      Purchases in the United States and Canada are
million to provide the foreign exchange needed      being financed through conversion of Sw6iss francs
to complete projects in the fields of electric    obtained from the Bank's security sales in Switzer-
power, coal mining, non-ferrous  metals  de-    land, and purchases in Germany are being financed
velopment, industry, forest products utilization,    through conversion of sterling from  the Bank'<
agriculture and fisheries, and transportation. In   London bond issue. It is expected, therefore, tha:
addition to the amount of the Bank's loan, sub-    the loan will be repayable entirely in currencies
stantially larger amounts of foreign exchange and    other than dollars,
local currency are being invested by Yugoslavia.       During  the year the $2.7  million  tiniber-
The projects selected by the Bank and the Yugo-    equipment loan was completely repaid. The object
slav Government for Bank assistance were those      of the loan was to provide additional Cquipmlenm
that would increase Yugoslav production and im-     to expand production of sawn softwood and
prove its balance of payments position promptly     pitprops.
and substantially. In several cases the imports to
be financed are relatively small amounts of key     Mediterranean Training Center
equipment needed to complete projects on which         A Training Center on Agriculture and Allied
considerable investments have already been made.    Projects was established in Ankara, Turkey, from
Because of the present and probable future        October to December 1951, to train government
pattern of its foreign trade, Yugoslavia is able to  officials in appraising and drawing up agricultural
service foreign indebtedness in Western European    development projects. The Center was sponsored
currencies with less difficulty than in dollars. The  develypby   prkecthe U nted Nations od
Bank therefore obtained permission from Belgium,    Jointly by Turkey, the United Nations, the Food
Denmark, France, Italy, the Netherlands and the     and Agriculture Organization and the Bank. It
United Kingdom  to use parts of their capital    was attended by 60 participants: 40 from Turk-
subscriptions for this loan. Purchases are being    and 20 from  10 other Mediterranean countries
made in Germany and in the United States and        and territories. Instructors included two members
Canada as well as in the Western European coun-    of the Bank's staff.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
Brazil                                                 The $25 million loan of June 27, 1952, will
Fijcal $75 million 25-year 41/2%  Loan of        finance imported equipment needed for the elec-
1949: January 27, 1949 to Brazilian Traction,    tric power program of the State of Rio Grande
Light and Power Company, Ltd. for
power and telephone development pro-       do Sul. The borrowver is a State-oo.  nd agenc-,
gram.                                      the  Comissao  Estadual  de  tc-.er(ia 1L l 'r rca
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 41/4% Loan of May      (CEEE)
1950: 26, 1950 to Companhia Hidro EIetrica
do Sao Francisco for power development       Additional power is urgently re£ded i.i Ui
project.                                   Grande do Sul. Because of its favorable cli ate.
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 41/4%  Loan of        fertile land and vigorous population the State is
1951: January 18, 1951 to Brazilian Traction,
Light and Power Company, Ltd. for          an important agricultural and cattle-raising area.
power development program.                 Related industries, such as food processin}g, shoe,,
Fiscal $25 million 25-year 4¾/4%  Loan of June   manufacturing and textile plants, hav'e already
1952: 27, 1952 to the Comissao Estadual de       been established there. The State contains Brazil's
Energia Eltrica of Rio Grande do Sul
for power development program.             largest known deposits of coal. Prospects are good-
$12.5 million 15-year 458%  Loan of        for further development of industry as we7l as
June 27, 1952 for improvement of rail-     agriculture.
ways.
[26 ]



Demands for electric power for both industrial,   This project is to be completed in about three
commercial and residential purposes have been     years, except for track rehabilitation, which is
steadily increasing, and shortages have necessi-    expected to take about five. The total cost is
tated power rationing. In the north-central sec-    estimated at the equivalent of approximately
tion of the State, over 3,000 industrial plants now  $76 million. Of this amount, the Brazilian Gov-
have to generate their own power with relatively    ernment will provide $64 million in cruzeiros and
small and inefficient units.                     the Bank will provide $12.5 million in foreign
The State has undertaken an electrification pro-    exchange.
gram to meet present needs and to provide for       The Central do Brasil Railroad serves the eco-
future requirements. The program is being carried  nomic center of Brazil. It links the important
out in two stages. The first, now almost com-    cities of Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Belo
pleted, will add about 40,000 kw. to present    Horizonte; and serves Volta Redonda, Brazil's
capacity and will relieve the most critical power    largest steel plant, and the mining State of Minas
shortages. The second stage, which is to be com-    Gerais. The railroad is a large carrier of iron
pleted in 1960, will provide power for longer    ores, steel, fuel and food products, as well as of
range development. It will add 185,000 kw. to    passengers.
the State's power system through the construction   The $90 million loan made in two installments
of four hydroelectric power stations, two steam   to the Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Com-
turbine plants and some small diesel plants. By    pany, Ltd., is financing most of the foreign-
1960, the system is to have more than twice its    exchange cost of a $270 million program  for
present capacity.                                 expanding hydroelectric generating and transmit-
ting facilities in the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo
The Bank's loan will be applied to projects in    areas. The loan has already enabled Brazilian
the second stage of the program which are to be    a      reas      e its powea   capait  Bstan
completed in or before 1957. The funds required    tiactyo to hydrelectr  generatnuits,bwta
duin  thttm-ilb    qiaett   bu                    tially. Two hydroelectric generating units, with a
duringlthat Time wailibe equivlerntnnto abo       total capacity of 117,000 kw., have been installed,
$80     o million thegt BraziianlGovernmen t wf 16 mill    and a 30,000 kw. floating power planl has been
finance works costing the equivalent of $16 mil-    added to the system. The first phase of the comn-
lion; CEEE will receive $39 million worth of    addt  h  ytm    h is  hs  ftecm
lin rEEwl  eeve$9mlinwrho                    plex Paraiba-Pirai River diversion project, built to
cruzeiros from the proceeds of a State electrifica-    pre  anamPle water  supply efor the ne
tion tax and from  operating revenues; and the    povide   an and  te old  fon           t, has
Bank's oan wil provie $25  illion        For,cacava plant and ttile old Fontes p"lant, has
Bank's loa will provide $25million,been completed. The ComPany expects the first
The $12.5 million loan of June 27, 1952 was    unit at Forcacava to be in opefatin1 early next
made directly to the Brazilian Government. It    year, thus adding 35,000 kw. to the system. The
will be used to purchase imports needed in an    total planned capacity of this plan7t .s  33000 kw.,
urgent project for rehabilitating the Central do  of which 195,000 kw. is expected to be in opera-
Brasil Railroad and adding to its carrying capacity.    tion by the end of 195 3.
The project is to add to rolling stock, improve     Already the Company's output of po!er hlas
maintenance, rehabilitate broad-gauge track and   been increased by one billion kilowatt-hours per
strengthen bridges. Most of the loan will be    annum. About half the power sold is for the use
used to buy components of freight cars to be    of industrial consumers. The first installment is
assembled in Brazil. The remainder will be used   also helping to finance expansion of telephone
to buy equipment for track maintenance, stone    facilities in the same area. The program  for
quarrying (to provide track ballast), maintenance  augmenting telephone facilities is scheduled for
shops and switches.                               completion before the end of 1952-
[ 27]



Work is continuing on the project of the Com-       project is being carried out by Chile's Department
panhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco for the        of Public Works. All equipment required for the
construction of a hydroelectric power plant at        project has been purchased and technical experts
Paulo Afonso Falls in northeastern Brazil. In         from abroad are at work.
spite of construction difficulties, this project is     The Endesa hydroelectric project is proceeding.
being carried forward in a satisfactory manner.       satisfactorily. The Bank-financed unit at Pilmai-
In November 1951 the President of the Bank         qu6n  (capacity  10,800 kw.), which serves the
visited Brazil for two weeks to learn at first hand   fertile agricultural area in the south of Chile,.
about Brazil's development problems and plans.    started operations early in 1952. Tihe i 6,000 kw.-
His trip took him to Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo,       unit at Los Molles, which will ser\e the area of
Porto Alegre and Belo Horizonte.                      La Serena, some 500 kilometers north of Santiago,'
is expected to go into operation by September or
British Guiana                                        October 1952. The Los Cipreses hydroelectric
In June 1952 two members of the staff visited      plant, with a generating capacity of 54,000 kw.,
British Guiana to discuss a request that the Bank     is expected to start operating during the second
arrange a mission to study the major economic         half of 1953. In response to a request f:rom
problems of the colony.                               Fomento and Endesa, the Bank has agreed to
permit the Los Cipreses project to be enlarged
Chile                                                to include the construction of a transmission line
Fiscal $13.5 million 20-year 41/2%  Loan of        linking the south-central power area with that of
1948: March  25, 1948 to  Corporaci6n  de          Santiago. This will assure a steady supply of
Fomento de la Producci6n (Fomento)
and Empresa Nacional de Electricidad,       power for Santiago and for the industrial center
S. A. (Endesa) for power development.       of Concepci6n. Because of economies effected in
$2.5 million 61/2-year 33/4%  Loan of       the original project, the foreign-exchange costs of
March 25, 1948 to Corporaci6n de            the proposed  extension can be met from  the
Fomento de la Producci6n for impor-         oin  loan.
tation of agricltural machinery.           original loan.
Fiscal $1.3 million 10-year 43/8%  Loan of           Virtually all equipment provided under the
1952: October 10, 1951 to Corporaci6n de          Bank's agricultural machinery loan has been sold
Fomento de la Producci6n for explora-
tion and use of water resources of the      to farmers. Spot checks indicate that dealers are
Rio Elqui Valley.                           providing  adequate repair facilities and spare
The project in the Rio Elqui Valley in north       parts; farmers are making good use of the equip-
central Chile will be carried out in two stages.      ment and giving it proper maintenance.
In the first stage, the volume of underground           Bank representatives visited Chile Jir February
water, already known to be large, will be precisely   1952 to examine a project for th-  mstrucLon ot
determined.  In  the  second  stage, permanent        pulp and newspriat plants, and at th : ose 
pumps and electric power facilities for operating     fiscal year, negotiations ftc  a loan were well
them will be installed.                               advanced. The Bank has -also been corsicing
Agricultural production in the river valleys in    requests submitted by two private coal mini.ng
northern Chile is severely limited by irregularity    companies for assistance in financing the rehabili-
in the flow and volume of surface waters available    tation and modernization of their mines.
for irrigation.  The present project is a pilot         The joint Bank-FAO  -nission, which -mnade a
undertaking. If successful, it would point the        field study of agricultural development in Chli.e
way to a much larger development of irrigation        in collaboration with the Chilean Goverrriaent
and agriculture, both in the Rio Elqui Valley and     and other technical experts, returned to 'WVashing-
in other river valleys of northern Chile. The         ton in September 1951. In Tunle, the chief^ of
[281



mission returned to Chile to discuss the mission's    mileage included in the project. The additionial
major findings and recommendations with the        foreign-exchange requirements are being met by
Government and with FAO  and Point Four    using part of the unallocated funds available from
specialists. The mission's final report and recom-    the Bank loan. Additional local-currency financing
mendations for a program of agricultural develop-    will be provided  from  Colombian  budgetary
ment will soon be formally presented to the        sources.
Government.                                          The loan for the purchase of agricultural ma-
Colombia                                           chinery by the Caja de Credito Agrario was fully
Fiscal $5 million 7-year 31/2% Loan of August   disbursed early in 1951. All the machinery bought
1950: 19, 1949 to Caja de Credito Agrario,      with the loan has been distributed for sale on
Industrial y Minero for importation of
agricultural machinery; reduced at the   credit to farmers, and most of it iS actually in use.
request- of the borrower to $4.9 million  Payments made by the purchasers are accumulating
on April 2, 1951.                        in a revolving fund from which the loan eventu-
i5cal $3N53 millie 2,950yto Central Hidro-      ally will be amortized. To the extent that the
el6ctrica del Rfo Anchicaya, Limitada,    sales proceeds are not immediately needed for
for power development project.           the purpose of amortization, they are used by the
$2.6 million 20-year 4% Loan of Decem-      .                . .    '
ber 28, 1950 to Central Hidroel6ctrica   Caja to acquire additonal machiery. Farmers
de Caldas, Limitada, for power develop-  payments for this machinery, in turn, are put back
ment project.                            in the fund. More machinery has been purchased
$16.5 million 10-year 37/8A%  Loan of                       m.aneryas beenced b
April 10, 1951 for highway construc-      out of the fund than was orginally financed by
tion and rehabilitation.                  the Bank's loan.
Fiscal $2.4 million 20-year 4½2%  Loan of         The Bank has under consideration a project for
1952: November 13, 1951 to Central Hidro-
electrica del Rio Lebrija, Limitada, for the construction of a Magdalena Valley Railroad
power development project.                which would greatly improve the communication
The most recent of three Bank loans for the      between the Caribbean coast and the central part
development of electric power in Colombia was      of Colombia. The railroad would replace river
made to  the Central Hidroelectrica del Rio    transportation on part of the Magdalena River,
Lebrija, a publicly owned company, to increase     where traffic is subject to serious interruption in
the supply of power for the city of Bucaramanga,    dry seasons. It would thereby provide a reliable,
the center of the tobacco-processing industry. The  year-round route between the Bogota area and the
project provides for the building of a hydro-    Caribbean ports, and an all-rail route between
electric plant, construction of transmission lines,    Bogota and Medellin. Its completion would also
arid the enlargement of the present distribution   provide better access for colonization of fertile
system. The plant initially will have an installed  areas of the Magdalena Valley. Since December
capacity of about 7,500 kw. but is designed for    1951, consulting engineers engaged jointly by the
art eventual capacity of about 15,000 kw. Work     Bank and the Government have been studying the
is already  far advanced  and  the project is    railway system with a view to suggesting measures
scheduled for completion in late 1953.             for administrative and financial reorganization.
Progress under the Bank's other two power          These engin.ers are also making a study of a
loans has been satisfactory. In December 1951      proposed corporation to operate ground and com-
the first generator installed by the Central Hidro-    munications facilities for civil aviation. Their
electrica de Caldas began to supply power for the  report is expected to be ready in the latter part
city of Manizales.                                 of 1952.
In 1952 the highway rehabilitation project was     The Bank has continued to provide a variety of
changed, to pave 50%0 instead of 15%, of the       technical assistance to aid the Government, in
[29 l



carrying out a long-range development program.      In its report the mission expressed the belief that
The Economic Development Conimittee, estab-         Cuba has ample resources, both human and ma-
lished in 1950 to work out specific recommenda-    terial, with which to increase its output, broaden
tions for a development program  based on the       its economic base, and create a better standard of
report of the Bank's general survey mission, com-    living for its people. The report offers a large
pleted its work in September 1951. Several mem-    number of suggestions and recommendations in
bers of the Bank's staff assisted the Commnittee    various fields and urges that the Cubans work out
in its studies. In August 1951 the Vice President    for themselves a long-term strategy for develop-
of the Bank visited Colombia to discuss the         ment aimed at the following objectives:
progress being made; and early in 1952 a member        1. To make Cuba less dependent on sugar by pro-
of the staff was stationed for several weeks in           moting new enterprises-not by curtailing sugar
BogotA as a special representative of the Bank.           production.
2. To expand existing-and create new-industries
The Colombian Government is carrying out               producing sugar by-products or using sugar as a
measures recommended by the Economic Develop-             raw material. This objective deserves a first
priority because progress in this direction will
ment Committee. In April 1952 it named a                  make the sugar sector of the economy more stable.
National Board of Economic Planning, to advise         3. To promote vigorously the export of non-sugar
on the coordination of development activities and         products in order to reduce the dependence on
exports of sugar. This will help both to raise
to direct a newly established central planning            total income and employment and to stabilize the
office. An Economic Advisor nomninated by the             economy. Among the most promising possi-
bilities for achieving this aim are the promotion
Bank has been appointed by the Board.                     of exports of minerals and of various crude and
In Noembe 195  theBank sent an expert to         processed foodstuffs.
In November 1951 the Bank sent an expert to         4. To produce in Cuba, for domestic consumption,
Colombia to suggest ways of developing the capi-          a wide range of foodstuffs, raw materials and
tal market. His report has been completed, and            consumer goods which are now imported.
will soon  be  transmitted  to  the  Colombian         To foster development, the mission outlines
Government.                                         action that should be taken in applied research,
education, labor-management relations, and in the
Costa Rica                                          field of government policy and reform. It also
At the request of the Government, a Bank mis-     makes recommendations on ways of increasing
sicn visited Costa Rica in October 1951 to study    agricultural and industrial production, and of im-
proving railroad transportation.
the economic situation and to examine the Govern-
ment's development plans. The Bank afterward        Dominican Republic
informed the Government that it was willing in         A Bank mission visited the Dominican Republic
principle to help finance railroad, highway and     in May 1952 to explore the Government's request
airport projects, and to consider other projects    for technical assistance in connection with the
when they were ready. In February 1952 the          development of hydroelectric power. As a result
Government informed the Bank that, in view of       of the visit, the Bank has given the Government
a substantial budget surplus in 1951 and good       a list of engineering firms qualified to make tech-
revenue prospects for the current year, it would    nical and market studies, and has agreed to
be able to carry forward its immediate develop-     nominate a consultant who can advise the Govern-
ment program without external financial assistance.    ment on problems of policy.
Cuba                                                Ecuador
The report of the Bank's general survey mission     The Bank has received technical studies on
was presented to the Government in August 1951.    projects for the construction of a new port for
[301



Guayaquil and for highway development in the       between Guatemala City and the Atlantic coast
Province of Guayas. The Bank has informed the    has begun. A commission has been appointed to
Government that soon after the elections, held     make recommendations for reorganization of the
in June 1952, it would send a representative to    nationalized coffee estates. The Government has
Ecuador for preliminary discussions with the Presi-   increased the tax on coffee exports; and technical
dent and the President-elect. It has also stressed  committees have been appointed to recommend
the importance of the restoration by Ecuador of    measures for the development of hydroelectric
a satisfactory relationship with holders of its    potential and of port facilities on the Atlantic
external bonds.                                    coast.
El Salvador                                        Jamaica
Fiscal $ 12.545 million 25-year 41/¼? Loan of     At the request of the Governments of the
1950: December 14, 1949 to Comisi6n Ejecu-      United Kingdom  and Jamaica, the Bank sent a
tiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa for     general survey mission to Jamaica early in March
power development project.                1952. The mission consisted of seven experts:
Urntil early this year generally satisfactory    four members of the Bank's staff, two agricultural
progress had been made in the construction of    specialists selected in cooperation with the Food
the hydroelectric project on the Lempa River. In   and Agriculture Organization (which shared the
February and March, however, the contractor    cost of their services), and a consultant on social
encountered difficulties in diverting the river from  services who was recruited by the Bank. This
the dam site; and excavation and concrete pouring  mission remained in the Colony for about two
are now about two months behind schedule.          months studying development requirements, and
is now preparing its report.
Giu,temala
In July 1951 the Bank submitted to the Govern-    Mexico
merit the report of a general survey mission which    Fiscal $24.1 million 25-year 41/2%  Loan of
visited Guatemala in the summer of 1950. The          1949: January 6, 1949 to Comisi6n Federal de
Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for
general program of development proposed by the               power development.
group was summarized in the Sixth Annual                     $10 million 1-year 41/2% Loan of Janu-
Report.                                                      ary 6, 1949 to Comisi6n Federal de
Report.                                                      Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for
T'he Government established a Citizens' Com-               power development. (Refunded)
mittee to study the mission report and to make        Fiscal $26 million 25-year 41/2% Loan of April
recommendations for a long-term  development          1950: 28, 1950 to Mexican Light and Power
program. A member of the Bank's staff spent           Fiscal Company, Ltd. for power development.
Fscl$10 million (maturity dates 1952-1957)
several months in Guatemala assisting the Com-        1951: 31/2%  Line of Credit of October 18,
mittee and advising the Government on various                1950 to a Consortium of Eight Mexican
Banks and Nacional Financiera for finan-
aspects of the program  proposed in the report.              cial assistance to small enterprises. Ex-
The Committee endorsed nearly all of the mis-                pired on June 30, 1952, with $0.556
siol1's recommendations, and in December 1951                million of loans outstanding.
Fiscal $29.7 million 25-year 41/2%  Loant of
the Government announced that it would include        1952: January 11, 1952 to Comisi6n Federal
the proposals of the Committee in its economic               de Electricidad and Nacional Financiera
program. The Government already is carrying                  for power development.
out some of the measures suggested by the Bank's     The Bank has now lent nearly $90 million for
mission and endorsed by the citizens' group.    the development of electric power in Mexico. By
Con1struction of an urgently needed highway        1955, when the projects financed by the most
[ 31 1



recent loan to the Federal Electricity Commission    aid of the $24.1 million loan of 1949, the Federal
and Nacional Financiera are completed, Bank-    Electricity Commission is carrying out projects
financed projects will have contributed 700,000    which will add 300,000 kw. to its generating
kw. to Mexico's generating capacity. Total ca-    capacity. Of this total, 155,000 kw. will be in-
pacity in 1955 will be 1,850,000 kw., or nearly    stalled in the Miguel Aleman hydroelectric system,
double the capacity at the time of the Bank's first    which supplies part of Mexico City's power; this
power loan in 1949. Because of the rapid growth    addition to the system is due to be completed in
of population and industry, this increase will be    1953.
sufficient only to meet the most essential require-  In addition to its larger installations, the Com-
ments.                                           mission has built diesel-electric plants in several
The latest loan for the Federal Electricity Com-    areas that formerly had no organized public
mission will help. finance two hydroelectric plants,    utility supply of power. In these areas the smaller
four steam electric plants, and increased distribu-    plants have made a striking contribution to pro-
tion facilities. The projects are located in widely    ductive efficiency and to the well-being of the
separated parts of the country. Some of them will    people.
serve industrial areas, such as Mexico City and    The Mexican Light and Power Company, Ltd.,
Monterrey, where further development is ham-    is also making progress on the construction pro-
pered by lack of power. Others will help stimulate    gram which the Bank helped to finance by its $26
the development of agriculture and industry in    million loan of 1950. This program is intended,
relatively undeveloped regions, such as Yucatan    in combination with expansion of the Commis-
and Lower California.                            sion's Miguel Aleman system, to ease the shortage
One of the two hydroelectric plants, at Tingam-    of power in the Mexico City area. Mexlight dis-
bato in the State of Mexico, will generate 150,000    tributes the power generated in the Miguel
kw. This will be the largest power plant in the    Aleman system  as well as that from  its own
country. The other hydroelectric plant, at El    plants. The loan is helping Mexlight to add
Cobano in the State of Michoacan, will generate    152,000 kw. to its generating capacity and to
55,000 kw. This plant will make use of hydraulic    install added facilities for transmission and distri-
works already constructed for irrigation. It will    bution; these additions are expected to be finished
supply power for an area where rapid industrial    in 1953.
development is taking place.                       In October 1950 the Bank opened a line of
One of the steam electric plants (30,000 kw.)    credit of $10 million to a consortium of eight
will be built in Monterrey, the second most im-    leading commercial banks and National Financiera
portant industrial city in Mexico, and another    for the purpose of assisting industrial develop-
(10,000 kw.) at Veracruz, the chief seaport.    ment. Specific loans were to be provided through
Smaller plants will be built in Lower California    the members of the consortium to finance medium-
and Yucatan.                                    sized and small industrial projects. As of June 30,
In the State of Sonora new distribution facilities    1952, the last day on which the Bank's approval
will permit fuller use of the generating stations    of loans under the line of credit was to be given,
constructed at Ciudad Obreg6n and Guaymas with    only six loans, totaling $595,050, had been made;
the aid of the Bank's previous loan to the    and one of these had been canceled by the
Commission.                                      borrower.
The construction programs financed by the        The disappointing results of this experiment
Bank's earlier power loans are now well advanced.    can be traced to several causes. First, the line of
Some of the projects are already making impor-    credit became effective at a time when the foreign-
tant contributions to the power supply. With the    exchange holdings in Mexico were increasing
[ 32 ]



rapidly, and the Mexican banks did not feel the   engineer, and coordinated the work of other ex-
need for this credit; private capital from abroad  perts, enlisted by the Government (or by the Bank
became more readily available, and the Bank's    on the Government's behalf) to advise on prob-
line of credit became correspondingly less attrac-    lems in their special fields. Consultants included:
tive. Second, the requirements of Mexican law     a representative of the Corporaci6n de Fomento de
regarding loans for private industry are both strict    la Producci6n of Chile, who gave advice on the
and complex, and have made the practical opera-    organization of a development corporation in
tion of the line of credit difficult. Third, potential    Nicaragua; a staff member of the Federal Reserve
borrowers under the line of credit were reluctant    Bank of New York, who made recommendations
to assume any part of the foreign-exchange risk    for fiscal reforms; a Food and Agriculture Organi-
involved.                                         zation expert, who made a survey of agricultural
needs; and a member of the Bank's own staff, who
Niraragua                                         made recommendations on the development of
Fiscal $3.5 million 10-year 41/8%  Loan of     transportation and communications. In addition,
1951: June 7, 1951 for highway construction,   the Bank gave leave of absence to a Nicaraguan
$1.2 million 7-year 4% Loan of June 7,
1951 to the Banco Nacional de Nicaragua  member of its staff in December 1951 so that he
for importation  of agricultural ma-     could serve as Executive Secretary of the National
chinery.
Fiscal $550,000 10-year 43/8% Loan of Octo-    Economic Council.
1952: ber 29, 1951 for construction of grain-    The Bank's special representative returned to
storage facilities.                      Washington in May 1952. At the end of the fiscal
'The drying and storage plant to be financed    year his report was being reviewed in the Bank
by the loan of October 1951 will have a capacity    before being submitted formally to the Govern-
of 6,000 tons. It will be built at Managua, the    ment. Already, however, the Government has
largest center of grain consumption. At present,   taken a number of steps along the lines suggested
Nicaragua loses a substantial portion of her grain    by him. It has (1) undertaken the organization
through spoilage because of a complete lack of    of a National Development Institute to promote
modern facilities for drying and storage. Success-   the growth of industry and agriculture; (2) started
ful operation of the plant would demonstrate the    work on a number of projects which will be part
advantages that could be obtained by building     of a five-year development program; (3) drawn
sirnilar plants in other parts of the country. Such  up a budget which provides for a marked increase
installations would bring greater stability in the  of development expenditure; and (4) undertaken
supply and price of grain and grain foods, im-    major changes in its fiscal, budgetary and tariff
provement in the quality of grain marketed for    policies. The Government is also studying other
local consumption, and an increase in the quantity  major administrative changes which will aid in
and quality of grain available for export.        carrying out the five-year development plan recom-
Satisfactory progress has been made under the    mended by the Bank's representative.
farm machinery and highway construction loans
made by the Bank in June 1951. A considerable     Panama
part of the agricultural machinery has been de-     The mission mentioned in the Sixth Annual
livered. Procurement of the highway machinery     Report visited Panama in September and October
is going forward and road construction has begun.    1951. Its report is now being considered by the
A special representative of the Bank arrived in  Government.
Nicaragua in July 1951, to help the Government's    The mission concluded that it would be difficult
new National Economic Council prepare a de-    for Panama to prepare and carry out a compre-
velopment program. He was assisted by a Bank      hensive development program until various fiscal
[ 33 j



and administrative reforms had been made. It    made, these requirements have not been fully met
believed, however, that if these reforms were    and the loan has not become effective.
actively begun, the Bank could consider the
financing of agricultural projects witliout waiting  Peru
for the preparation of a complete development        Fiscal $2.5 million 15-year 41/2%  Loan of
programn.                                           1952: January 23, 1952 for improvement of the
Port of Callao.
Paraguay                                            This loan will be used to provide modern
Fis*al $5 million 9-year 4~/8% Loan of Decem-  facilities for the handling of general cargo and for
Fiscal $5 millionl 9-year 43/87 Loan of Decem-
1952: ber 7, 1951 for the importation of agri-  the unloading and storage of bulk grain. These
cultural machinery and supplies and      cargoes account for about 80 to 85%o of the
road-building equipment.                freight moving through the port. More efficient
This loan will finance imports of farm ma-    handling of these cargoes will reduce the turn-
chinery and supplies, road-building and mainte-    around time of ships, eliminate losses of grain
nance equipment, and trucks. Wider distribution   from spillage, and effect savings of foreign ex-
and use of farm machinery and supplies should    change. To assure efficient operation of the port,
enable farmers to increase the acreage under    the Government is setting up an autonomous Port
cultivation and improve yields per acre. Better    Authority under the direction of an experienced
roads and motorized transport will link isolated  Port Administrator.
producing areas, and should not only reduce losses  Under consideration for Bank financing are
of perishable goods between farm  and market,    projects for highway construction and mainte-
but should also induce farmers to raise larger    nance, irrigation, purchase of agricultural ma-
crops.                                            ciinery, and the provision of agricultural credit.
The farm machinery and supplies will be sold      During the past year Peru has been actively
to farmers either for cash or on credit extended by    negotiating settlement of her dollar and sterling
the Banco del Paraguay and by the Cr6dito Agri-    debts. In November 1951 the Government an-
cola de Habilitaci6n (CAH). For farmers who       nounced the terms of a readjustment plan for the
cannot afford to buy machinery, machinery pools    dollar debt, negotiated with the Foreign Bond-
will be established by the Ministry of Agriculture    holders Protective Council, Inc., of New York.
and Livestock. Provision has been made for skilled    In April 1952 the Peruvian Congress passed a law
operators and effective repair and maintenance    authorizing the Government to put the settlement
facilities for each pool.                        into effect. Negotiations have also taken place
The road-building and maintenance equipment    with the Council of Foreign Bondholders in
will be used by the Ministry of Public Works and  London on two sterling bond issues but so far
Telecommunications for the completion or con-    these negotiations have not led to agreement.
struction and maintenance of trunk roads in
selected farming regions. Trucks will be operated  Surinam
by the Banco del Paraguay for distributing farm     At the request of the Netherlands and Surinam
supplies and bringing crops to market.            Governments, a general survey mission from the
The Loan Agreement required that steps be       Bank visited Surinam in November 1951. The
taken to strengthen the financial position and    six-man mission induded four members of the
organization of CAH and to improve accounting     staff and two experts nominated by the Food and
methods and procedures for controlling the distri-    Agriculture Organization. A report of its findings
bution of tihe Bank-financed farm implements and  has been transmitted to the two Governments.
supplies. While substantial progress has been     The report contains recomnmendations for the
[341



development of agriculture, forestry, fisheries,    The report of a joint Bank-FAO tnission was
transportation  and  social services, aimed  at    presented to the Government in July 1951. The
strengthening the country's economy and maintain-    report contains a series of recommendations on
ing the standard of living  of the growing        measures to stimulate and improve agricultural
population.                                       and livestock production, to reduce costs of pro-
The mission recommends a 10-year public in-    duction and to improve marketing methods. It
vestment program  beginning in mid-1952  of    stresses the need for expanding research, which
100 million Surinam guilders, on the assumption    requires, among other things, the provision of
that financing from the Netherlands would be    facilities to develop and test new methods for
available to the extent of 4 million Surinam      increasing productivity. In addition, the report
guilders a year and that other external credits    recommends a program of increased afforestation
could be obtained. The mission outlines a supple-    to protect agricultural and grazing land and to
meritary program of 30 million guilders, to be    increase domestic fuel and lumber supplies. In
undertaken to the extent that additional resources,    the opinion of the mission, there are also wide
technical as well as financial, prove to be available.    opportunities for improvement in the transpor-
T'he program  of public investment recom-    tation, storage and marketing of agricultural
mended by the mission places primary emphasis    products.
on improving agricultural production and open-      The report outlines suggested changes in the
ing up the tropical forests. The mission suggests    organization of public agencies concerned with
that the program be administered by a develop-    agriculture, to assure the services needed for
menit board to be created jointly by the Govern-    successful execution of the recommended produc-
ments of the Netherlands and of Surinam.          tion and marketing program. While the mission
ldid not attempt to calculate precisely the amount
UJruguay                                          of capital investment which would be required to
Fascal $33 million 24-year 41/4%  Loan of      carry out its recommendations, it noted that the
1951: August 25, 1950 to Administraa6n
General de las Usinas Elctricas y los  period of agricultural prosperity then prevailing
Telefonos del Estado for power and       was a favorable time to undertake important
telephone development program.           adjustments and improvements.
As a result of delay in making this loan effec-
tive and in concluding contracts for the principal    Training Center and Seminar
sections of the project, the power program will     A Latin American Training Center on Agri-
probably be about a year behind schedule. Con-    culture and Allied Plans and Projects was con-
tracts have now been awarded and orders placed    ducted in Santiago, Chile from October to Decem-
for the 50,000 kw. thermal generating unit at    ber 1951, to train government officials in apprais-
Montevideo, for the diesel engines for power    ing and drawing up agricultural development
plants in the interior of the country, and for    projects. The Center was sponsored jointly by
equipment for the lower part of the western       Chile, the United Nations, the Food and Agri-
transmission circuit which will serve the south-    culture Organization  and the Bank.  It was
western region of Uruguay. The expansion of    attended by 68 participants from 20 Latin Ameri-
telephone services is proceeding according to    can countries. Instructors included two members
scledule.                                         of the Bank's staff.
[351



Chapter III - Financial Activities and Resources
EARNINGS, RESERVES, REPAYMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Net income during the fiscal year 1951-52         All repayments of principal due during the
amounted  to $15,872,883  as compared with    yearwerereceived. Theyamountedto$4,239,011.
$15,156,947 during the previous fiscal year. In    In addition, $1,863,000 was paid by borrowers
accordance with a decision of the Executive Direc-    to investors to retire portions of loans which had
tors and the Board of Governors this net income   been sold by the Bank.
has been placed in a general reserve against losses  Disbursements  on  loans  during  the  year
on loans and guarantees. On June 30, 1952 this    amounted to $184,777,004 as compared with
reserve amounted to $58,028,100.                  $77,564,969 during the previous year. Cumulative
Loah commissions for the year totaled           disbursements to June 30, 1952 amounted to
$7,558,906 and, as required by the Articles of    $876,504,133. Of this amount $827,364,519 was
Agreement, they were credited to the Special    repayable in United States dollars. The equivalent
Reserve for meeting the Bank's obligations. The    of $49,139,614 was repayable in Belgian francs,
Special Reserve amounted to $27,684,654 on June    Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs,
30, 1952. Total reserves of the Bank on that date    Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian
aggregated $85,712,754.                           kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor and Swiss
francs. Of the $184.8 million disbursed during
Gross income for the fiscal year, exclusive of    the year, $116.5 million (63%) was spent in the
loan  commissions, was $35,188,744. Of this    United States and $68.3 million in other countries.
amount, loan income totaled $26,587,555, in-        The geographical distribution of total expendi-
come from  investments, $8,500,740 and other    tures financed by the Bank through June 30, 1952
income, $100,449.  Gross expenses increased    is as follows:
from  $13,045,595 in the 1950-51 fiscal year to                                     Amount
$19315,861 in the past fiscal year. The increase                                  (Expressed in
resulted almost entirely from increases in inter-    A1rea of Expenditure       millions of U. S. $)
United States ............ 622.1
est rates and other costs of the Bank's borrow-      Europe .125.0
ings. More and more of the loans made by the         Latin America ........ . ............ 62.5
Bank are being financed out of borrowed funds,       Canada .                            61.7
Near East ..............2.5
as nearly all of the capital subscribed by mem-      Africa .2.5
bers and released for lending has been com-          Far East ..2
mitted.                                                Total                     .     $876.5
[ 36 ]



FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
Fands available to the Bank for lending on        duras, Mexico and Paraguay have released all or
June 30, 1952, in U. S. dollar equivalent, are sum-    part of their 18%o capital subscriptions for the
marized below:                                      purchase of goods in their respective territories.
2%  paid.in portinofubTo date borrowers have not made any purchases
2% paid-in portion of subscription
of all members ............ $165,475,000     in these countries, and it is unlikely that they will
18%  portion of subscriptions                     do so in the near future. The amounts released
made avalilable by:                          by them therefore have not been included in the
Canada  ......    53,356,000                 statement of funds available for lending. Other
Denmark  .....     1,066,000                 members have expressed a willingness to consider
France  .......    23,911,000
Italy ........     1,199,000                 releases from their 18°19 subscriptions when bor-
Netherlands ...     300,000                  rowers propose purchases in their countries.
South Africa       2,800,000                   Canada, the United Kingdom  and the United
Sweden  ......      150,000                  States have agreed that the Bank may relend all
United Kingdom     5,461,000                 their 18%  funds which are repaid by borrowers
United States . .571,500,000
United Stts'                 or recovered through sales from portfolio. Canada
Total .............   663,443,000      and the United States, and to a limited extent
Total available capital subscriptions. . $828,918,000  France and the United Kingdom, have agreed
Funds available from operations .....   59,000,000    that funds released by them may be converted into
Funds available from sale of bonds . .  499,859,000
Funds available from sale of loans                various currencies to cover the cost of goods pur-
and principal repayments ........  66,717,000   chased in other countries.
Gross total available funds ........ $1,454,494,000  There are still large amounts of 18%7 currency
Loans disbursed .... ..........  876,504,000      which the Bank has not yet received permission
Excess of available funds over loan dis.          to use but which could be of the greatest ad-
bursements .$ 57!,990,000                       vantage in its lending operations. Releases of
these funds would enable the Bank to expand its
This table includes only those funds which have   activities in countries which have a limited ability
been used by the Bank or which are expected to    to repay dollar obligations but have adequate
be used without further approval of members. In     earnings to service external debt in other cur-
addition, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Hon-    rencies.
SALES OF SECURITIES
Direct obligations of the Bank sold to investors  million. The lendable resources of the Bank were
during the year amounted to $175.3 million. This    also replenished by sales of bonds from its port-
is the largest volume of the Bank's bonds issued in    folio, equivalent to about $23.4 million.
any single fiscal year since 1947-48, when the         There has been an encouraging broadening of
initial issues, totaling $250 million, were offered    the market for the Bank's obligations, with more
in the United States market. Sold during the year    general  acceptance  of  the  bonds  by  large
were two issues in the United States in a total    institutional investors in the United States and
amount of $150 million; one issue in Switzer-    institutional and individual investors in other
land in the amount of Sw fr 50,000,000, the         countries. It is estimated that of the total direct
equivalent of approximately $11.6 million; and      and guaranteed obligations outstanding in an
an issue in Canada amounting to Canadian $15        amount equivalent to approximately $536.7 mil-
[ 37 ]



lion, about $130 million is held by investors out-    a Canadian syndicate of investment dealers and
side the United States.                         chartered banks headed by the Dominion Securi-
Conditions in the United States money market   ties Corpn. Limited, A. E. Ames & Co., Limited,
were unsettled during the year, with intermittent    and Wood, Gundy & Company Limited. The
periods of strength and weakness complicating    bonds were heavily oversubscribed.
the task of large-scale financing. The general    On May 14, 1952 the Bank sold an issue of
trend, however, was toward higher interest rates,    $50 million 33A%8  Twenty-Three Year Bonds of
and this increased the costs of long-term borrow-    1952, due May 15, 1975, to an underwriting group
ing to the U. S. Treasury and to other borrowers,    of 119 commercial banks and investment banking
both public and private. The Bank, despite the    firms managed jointly by Morgan Stanley & Co.
further seasoning of its bonds and a widening    and The First Boston Corporation. The bonds,
distribution, has likewise had to pay higher inter-    offered to the public at 981/2, were in strong
est rates on its bonds, and there has been a cor-    demand. The direct, negotiated sale to under-
responding rise in the rates of interest on its loans.    writers was a method not previously used by
the Bank in the sale of its bonds in the United
New Issues of the Bank's Bonds                  States market. The initial issues offered in 1947
In the Sixth Annual Report it was noted that    were sold on an agency basis through approxi-
arrangements had been completed for the first    mately 1,700 security dealers; the next issue was
public offering of the Bank's bonds in Switzerland.    sold early in 1950 through competitive bidding to
On July 3, 1951 a syndicate of leading Swiss    a group of commercial banks and investment bank-
banks publicly offered at par Sw fr 50,000,000    ing firms; and for the two issues sold in 1951, the
(approximately $11.6 million) of the Bank's   sponsorship agency method was used but with the
31/27% Twelve-Year Bonds due August 1, 1963.    number of participating banks and investment
The issue was heavily oversubscribed. The bank-   firms greatly reduced. The several methods have
ing syndicate was headed by The Swiss Bank    been employed to determine which was best suited
Corporation, of Basle, the Credit Suisse, of Zurich,    for the most efficient distribution and which would
and the Union Bank of Switzerland, of Zurich.    best serve the interests both of the investor and
On September 12, 1951 the Bank offered in the    the Bank. The results achieved in the last issue
United States a new issue at par of $100 million    proved highly satisfactory.
31/4% Thirty-Year Bonds of 1951 due October 1,    All of the Bank's United States dollar bond
1981. The issue was offered through a Sponsoring    issues are listed on the New York Stock Exchange
Group of 32 leading United States commercial    and certain of them are also listed on the ex-
banks and investment banking firms managed    changes in Amsterdam, Antwerp, Brussels, Istan-
jointly by The First National Bank of Chicago and  bul, Mexico City and Paris. The Sterling 31/2's
Halsey, Stuart & Co. Inc. The distribution of    of 1966/71 are listed in London and the Swiss
the bonds was accomplished through a large sell-    Franc 31/2's of 1963 are quoted on the stock
ing group which included three European and two    exchanges of Basle, Zurich, Geneva and Berne.
Canadian participants. United States savings banks
pension and trust funds and life insurance com-    Sales of Bonds from the Bank's Portfolio
panies were the principal purchasers. Canadian,   Sales of the obligations of the Bank's borrowers
European and Asiatic institutions also purchased    continued to increase in the fiscal year. During
an impressive amount.                           the period, the Bank sold the equivalent of
On February 5, 1952 a new issue at par of Can    $23,359,192 principal amount of borrowers' obli-
$15 million 4%o Ten-Year Canadian dollar bonds    gations, of which $12,950,001 carried its uncondi-
of 1952 due February 1, 1962 was offered through    tional guarantee and $10,409,191 were sold with-
[38]



out recourse to the Bank. Obligations of 16 bor-  In the United States, mutual savings banks, life
rowers were sold either with or without the Bank's   insurance companies, and pension and trust funds
guarantee. Included among the sales without the    are the principal investors in the Bank's bonds.
Bank's guarantee is the participation to the extent    Each of these three groups holds approximately
of $3.5 million by an American banking institu-    20%o of the outstanding total. Another 20%  is
tion in the loan by the Bank to KLM  Royal    held by commercial banks and other investors.
Dutch Airlines.  Cumulative sales of the secu-    The remaining 20%  is owned by investors out-
rities of borrowers from  the Bank's portfolio    side the United States; this includes the major
to June 30, 1952 expressed in United States dol-   portion of the Bank's obligations not denomi-
lars were $56,376,688, consisting of $41,499,001  nated in United States dollars, equivalent to
sold with the Bank's guarantee and $14,877,687    about $50 million; and an estimated $69 million
without.                                        of direct obligations of the Bank payable in United
States dollars. Among the non-United States pur-
Broadening Market for the Bank's Bonds          chasers are the central banking institutions of
There is evidence of an expanding market for    12 member nations, which have some of the
the Bank's bonds in the United States. During    largest holdings of the Bank's obligations. In
the fiscal year some large institutional investors    addition, approximately $11 million of the obliga-
macde their first purchases of the Bank's bonds,   tions of borrowers, to which the Bank has added
others re-established earlier positions, and many    its unconditional guarantee of principal and inter-
added substantially to their holdings.          est, are held outside the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND REPORTS
Appendices A through G provide a balance    ment of loans up to the end of the fiscal year, an
sheet showing the financial position of the Bank    opinion of the auditor, and other schedules giving
as of June 30, 1952, a comparative statement of    details about the assets and the capital structure
income and expenses for the fiscal years ended    of the Bank.
Jun-e 30, 1951 and June 30, 1952, a complete state-
[39]



Chapter IV - Management and Organization
Personnel and Organization                      for the fifth annual course, which begins in
Mr. Chauncey G. Parker, Director of Adminis-    January 1953.
tration, returned to the Bank on April 16, 1952   The Public Finance Training Program has made
on completion of duty in Germany with the    training available to an income tax official from
United States Government. Since January 1, 1951    Iraq and to central bank officials from Thailand
he had held the post of Assistant U. S. High    aod iran. This program will be continued in the
Commissioner.                                   c
On November 1, 1951 the Staff Office was
redesignated the Technical Assistance and Liaison    Staf Retirement Plan
Department and Mr. Richard H. Demuth was          Total assets of the staff retirement plan on
named Director. The new department is respon-    December 31, 1951 were $1,704,000, an increase
sible for the Bank's technical assistance activities    of $440,000 over the previous year. Of the 445
and for liaison with the United Nations and other    participants, 427 are presently employed. The
specialized agencies.                           average yield on the purchase price of securities
During the fiscal year there have been 76 ap-    held on December 31, 1951 was 3.83%7o per
pointments to the permanent staff of the Bank    annum, as compared with a yield of 3.61%o on
and 67 terminations. As of June 30, 1952, the    December 31, 1950. There were no amendments
staff of the Bank consisted of 433 regular mem-    to the plan during the year.
bers from 31 countries.
Administrative Budget
Training Program                                  There is attached as Appendix H the Adminis-
The fourth course of the Junior Professional    trative Budget of the Bank for the fiscal year end-
and Administrative Training Program began in   ing June 30, 1953. This budget has been prepared
January 1952 with trainees from Australia, Aus-    by the President and approved by the Executive
tria, Chile, Egypt, France, India, South Africa.   Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the
and Syria. To date, citizens of 28 of the Bank's    By-Laws. A special report on the budget is being
member countries have participated in this pro-    submitted to the Board of Governors at the Annual
gram. Selection is now being made of candidates    Meeting.
[40 1



Chapter V - Miscellaneous
Relations with Other                            ings of the Technical Assistance Board of the
International Organizations                     United Nations and of the Technical Assistance
During the year the Bank continued to main-    Committee, which reviews the Board's activities
tai c:Lose relations With the International Mone-    on behalf of the Economic and Social Council.
tary clFseurelationsdwith the Uni Nationsand Mote-    As the international technical assistance programs
tary  Fund, the United  Nations and  otherexperts are
international organizations. As in the past, repre-    sen oupbnted salized agncies and bte
sentatives of the Bank attended meetings of the    sent out by the specialized agencies and by the
UnitedS Nations General Assembly and the Eco-    United Nations Technical Assistance Administra-
nomic and Social Council. In addition, the Bank    tion, there have been increasing consultation and
womicasepesntd  at meetin.  of othe tion,thernatn  interchange of information between these experts
wagreniesen  sbets of  intert o .th      a      and Bank personnel both at headquarters and in
agencies when subjects of interest to the Bank    the field.
were discussed.
At the Thirteenth Session of the Economic and   The joint Bank-FAO mission to Chile to make
Social Council in Geneva, the Bank's representa-    recommendations for agricultural development
tives participated actively in the discussion of    has been mentioned in another part of this Report.
various proposals put forward to aid in the financ-    Agricultural and forestry experts for the Bank's
ing of development in the less developed coun-    general survey missions have continued to be
tries. The President of the Bank addressed the    selected in cooperation with the Food and Agri-
Economic Committee of the General Assembly in    culture Organization, which has also shared the
Paris in December 1951 during the Committee's    cost of their services. The World Health Organi-
consiseration  of problems  of economic develo'-   zation has nominated the public health specialist
cons(eatin o prbles o ecnomc dvelp-    when this field has been included in a mission's
ment. The President also presented a report on    studd.
the Bank's activities to the Fourteenth Session of    study.
the Economic and Social Council in New York,      As mentioned earlier, during the year the Bank
and spoke for the Bank during the Council's   joined with the Food and Agriculture Organization
consideration of the report prepared by the Bank's    and the United Nations in sponsoring two training
staff on the proposal for an International Finance    centers on agricultural and allied projects, one at
Corporation.                                    Ankara, Turkey, for Mediterranean countries,
During the course of the year representatives of    and one at Santiago, Chile, for Latin American
the Bank also attended meetings of the United    countries.
Nations regional commissions and of the Consul-
tative Committee on Economic Development in    Membership and Subscription
South and Southeast Asia. The Bank also kept in   Sweden (subscription $100 million) and Burma
close touch with the Organization of American    (subscription $15 million) became members of
States.                                         the Bank on August 31, 1951 and January 3, 1952,
The President of the Bank attended several    respectively, bringing the membership to 51. The
meetings of the United Nations Administrative    Bank's total subscribed capital was $8,453.5 mil-
Committee on Coordination, and staff members   lion as of June 30, 1952. The application for
attended meetings of its subsidiary committees.  membership by the Hashemite Kingdom of the
The Bank was represented at numerous meet-   Jordan (subscription $3 million) was approved
[ 41 ]



by the Board of Governors on April 21, 1952,      (d) Fourth Regular Election  of Executive
and that country has until September 30, 1952         Directors.
to accept membership in the Bank. The appli-   In the absence of new developments, no report is
cations by the Federal Republic of Germany (sub-    being submitted on the Advisory Council.
scription $330 million) and by Japan (subscription    Appendices
$250 million) were approved by the Board of
Governors on May 28, 1952 and those countries     In addition to Appendices A through 1-1 con-
have until August 15, 1952 to accept membership    taining the financial statements and reports and
in the Bank.                                   the administrative budget of the Bank, there are
also included for the information of the Governors
Additional Reports to Board of Governors        the following appendices:
In addition to this Annual Report, reports are  Appendix I - Voting Power and Subscriptions
being submitted to the Board of Governors at                   of Member Countries as of
the Seventh Annual Meeting on the following                    June 30, 1952.
subjects:                                        Appendix J - Governors and Alternates as of
June 30, 1952.
(a) Administrative Budget.                     Appendix K -Executive Directors and Alter-
(b) Allocation of Income by Executive Direc-                 nates and their Voting Power
tors to Reserve.                                         as of June 30, 1952.
(c) Regulations Relating to Executive Direc-   Appendix L - Principal Officers of the Bank
tors and Alternates,                                     as of June 30, 1952.
[42]



APPENDICES



I                                I         .                            0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I



APPENDIX A
Balance Shed
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENC
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Other Depositories
(See APPENDIX C)
Member currencies, including $6,121,409 United States
Dollars
Unrestricted  .............  ....................    $  7,935,286
Subject to restrictions-NOTE B ................ .      129,781,910    $ 137,717,196
Non-member currency .13,398,628  $ 151,115,824
Investment Securities
UJnited States Government obligations
($463,004,400 face amount; at cost less amortized
premium) ............      .....................    $462,610,080
Canadian Government obligations
(Can $10,000,000 face amount; at cost plus accumu-
lated discount) ..........   ...................       9,062,516
lJnited Kingdom Government obligations
(£3,900,000 face amount; at cost) ................      10,855,916    $ 482,528,512
Accrued interest .3,958,870   486,487,382
Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital
(See APPENDIX E)
Receivable in United States currency
Calls on subscription to capital stock-NOTE C....                     $    3,595,000
Receivable in other member currencies-NOTE B
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes..                     792,398,866        795,993,866
Loans Outstanding Held by Bank (See APPENDIX D)
-NOTES D AND E                                                                              1,213,241,588
Accrued Interest, Commitment and Service Charges on
Loans-NOTE E                                                                                    6,544,203
Other Receivables and Other Assets
Receivable from participant in loan (See APPENDIX D,
NOTE 2) .$ 3,500,000
Miscellaneous receivables and other assets                                      531,428         4,031,428
Special Reserve Fund Assets-NOTE F
Due from Banks-member currency-United States                             $       41,323
Investment securities-United States Government obliga-
tions ($25,740,600 face amount; at cost)                                  25,740,600
Accrued loan commissions-NOTE E ...............                               1,902,731        27,684,654
Staff Retirement Plan Assets
(Segregated and held in trust)                                                                  1,938,220
Total Assets                                        $2,687,037,165
[44]



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - I  I  I



APPENDIX A
-June 30, 1952
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix F.
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including
$4,883,880 bond interest .......................                                        $    5,373,180
lLjndisbursed balance of loans (See APPENDIX D)
On loans held by Bank .........................                       $ 401,081,338
On loans represented by obligations of borrowers
sold under guarantee-NOTE D ...............                              2,373,087       403,454,425
Funded debt-NOTE G
Amount payable in United States Dollars
2%S Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1953-62 ..........    $100,000,000
3%  Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1947, due 1972..      150,000,000
3%/ Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1951, due 1976..        50,000,000
31/4%  Thirty Year Bonds of 1951, due 1981 .....    100,000,000
33/8% Twenty-Three Year Bonds of 1952, due 1975      50,000,000    $ 450,000,000
Amount payable in Canadian Dollars
4% Ten Year Bonds of 1952, due 1962 (Can
$15,000,000)     ............................                         13,636,364
Amount payable in Pounds Sterling
31½2% Twenty Year Stock of 1951, due 1971
(£5,000,000)     ............................                         14,000,000
Amount payable in Swiss Francs
21/2% Serial Bonds of 1948, due 1953-54 (Sw fr
17,000,000) ..........     ...................    $  3,955,788
21/2% Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1953-56 (Sw fr
28,500,000) ..........     ...................       6,631,763
31/2% Twelve Year Bonds of 1951, due 1963
(Sw fr 50,000,000) .......................         11,634,671         22,222,222       499,858,586
Bonds called for redemption not presented ...........                    $       2,102
Less funds on deposit with Fiscal Agent therefor ... .                         2,102
Reserves for Losses
Special reserve-NOTE F ........................                         $   27,684,654
General (Supplemental) reserve-NOTE H ..........                             58,028,100        85,712,754
Staff Retirement Plan Reserve ....                                                                1,938,220
Capital (See APPENDIX E)
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 84,535 shares ......................                     $8,453,500,000
Less-Uncalled portion of subscriptions-NOTE I                        6,762,800,000      1,690,700,000
Contingent Liability-OBLIGATIONS OF BORROW-
ERS OUTSTANDING SOLD UNDER GUARANTEE
-NOTE D .......                         $34,484,914
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital                                      $2,687,037,165
[45]



APPENDIX B
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses
For the Fiscal Years EndedJune 30, 1951 and June 30, 1952
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix F
July 1-June 30
1950-1951             19,5 1 -1 9 s2
Income
Interest earned  on  investments ................................  ............  $  6,116,319                                                       $  8.500,740
Income from loans:
Interest   .........................                                          ..............                               19,926,371             23,669,009
Commitment  charges  ..............                             ....................................                         2,053,197              2,838,343
Commissions  .........                     ..............................................                                    6,388,543              7,558,906
Service Cbarges .........   .                                                                                                    88,207    80,203
Other income .........                            ...                                         .           ..........   18,448    100,449
Gross  Income   .................                            ...............................  $34,591,085                             $42,747,650
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commissions appropriated to Special Reserve-
NOTE F ......................................  6,388,543                                                                                            7,558,906
Gross Income Less Reserve Deduction ............................ $28,202,542   $35,188,744
Expenses
Administrative expenses:
Personal  services   .               ....................................................  $  2,778,456                                         $  3,132,058
Expense allowance-Executive Directors and Alternates .......................                                                       4,317                  5,144
Fees and compensation .................................................                                                        406,976                318,832
Representation              ... ......................................................                                            57,589                 56,092
Travel .....................                                                                                                    597,011    538,211
Supplies and material ............................ .....................                                                         45,060                 42,574
Rents and  utility  services ................................................                                                  335,887                397,770
Communication  services  ..............                            ..................................                           106,860                114,332
Furniture and equipment .                       ..............................................                                    29,513                33,586
Motor  vehides  ..............                          .........................................                                 10,843                  4,907
Books and  library  services ...............................................                                                     56,554                 69,463
Printing  .............................................................                                                           84,018                67,765
Contributions to  staff  benefits ............................................                                                 300,322                336,559
Insurance  ............................................................                                                          29,040                 16,704
Handling and storage of gold                                        ................                                                                      2,080
Other expenses  .              ......................................................                                              1,001                  1,281
Total Administrative  Expenses ......... -- .......................   $  4,843,447                                                    $  5,137,358
Interest  on   bonds .             ......................................................                                        7,248,276            11,793,631
Bond registration, issuance and other financial expenses .........................                                                 953,872             2,346,692
Exchange adjustments                                       ..38,180
Gross Expenses ..........                                    ..................                                $13,045,595   $19,315,861
Net Income-Appropriated to General Reserve Against Losses on Loans and Guaran-
tees-NOTE  H  .                  ....................................................... $15,156,947    $15,872,883
[46]



APPENDIX C
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank- June 30, 1952
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix F
Amount Expressed                                Total Expressed
Unit of             In Member Currency                               in Unitled S.tates
Currency                 (Restricted)           Rate of Exchange          Dollars
Member Currencies
Australia                      Pound                      159,840            $ =       o.4464           $   358,043
Austria                        Schilling                1,912,225            $ =      21.36                   89,524
Belgium                        Franc                   61,544,567            $=       50.00                1,230,891
Bolivia                        Boliviano                  737,410            $ =      60.00                   12,290
Brazil                         Cruzeiro               349,133,960            $ =      18.50               18,872,106
B,urma                         Rupee                      128,542            $ =       4.7619                26,994
C:anada                        Dollar                      43,605            $ =       1.10                  39,641
Ceylon                         Rupee                      134,589            $=        4.7619                28,264
C:hile                         Peso                   194,518,726            $ =      31.00                6,274,798
China                          Gold Yuan               21,581,589            $ =      20.00                1,079,079
C:olombia                      Peso                    12,240,243            $ =       1.950               6,277,109
C;osta Rica                    Col6n                    1,996,515            $=        5.615                 355,568
Cuba                           Peso                        59,047            $ =       1.00                   59,047
C;zechoslovakia                Koruna                  11,062,883            $ =      50.00                  221,258
Denmark                        Krone                    3,218,333            X =       6.907                465,943
Dominican Republic             Peso                         1,241            $ =       1.00                    1,24l
Ecuador                        Sucre                    8,598,314            $=       15.00                  573,221
Egypt                          Pound                       21,632            $=        0.3482                 62,118
El Salvador                    Col6n                      436,740            $=        2.50                  174,696
Ethiopia                       Dollar                   1,290,651            $=        2.4845                519,487
Finland                        Markka               11572,329,035            $ =     230.00                6,836,213
France                         Franc                 1,377,368,986           $ =     349.6                 3,939,843
Greece                         Drachma             22,500,000,000            $ =   5,000.00                4,500,000
ciuatemala                     Quetzal                    350,432            $ =       1.00                  350,432
Flonduras                      Lempira                    355,400            $ =       2.00                  177,700
Iceland                        Kr6na                    2,885,486            $ -      16.2857                177,179
India                          Rupee                    3,140,799            $         4.7619                659,568
Iran                           Rial                     1,570,319            $ -      32.25                   48,692
Iraq                           Dinar                        4,035            $ =       0.3571                 11,298
Italy                          Lira                 7,200,757,169            $=      225.00               32,003,365
Lebanon                        Pound                    1,762,886            $ =       2.1915                804,427
Luxembourg                     Franc                      768,189            $=       50.00                   15,363
Mexico                         Peso                   100,956,670            $ =       8.65               11,671,291
Netherlands                    Guilder                  1,452,793            $=        3.80                  382,314
Nicaragua                      C6rdoba                    688,951            $ =       5.00                  137,790
Norway                         Krone                      945,267            $=        7.1429                132.337
Pakistan                       Rupee                      531,810            $=        3.3085                160,740
Planama                        Balboa                      34,495            $ =       1.00                   34,495
E'araguay                      Guarani                  1,439,362            $ =       6.00                  239.894
Pleru                          Sol                         81,778            $ =       6.50                   12,581
E'hilippine Republic           Peso                     2,383,000            $ =       2.00                1,191,500
Sweden                         Krona                   92,942,927            $ =       5.1732             17,966,200
Syria                          Pound                        4,966            $=        2.1915                  2,266
1Thailand                      Baht                       149,497            $ =      12.50                   11,960
Turkey                         Lira                       128,103            $=        2.80                   45,751
tJnion of South Africa         Pound                       59,945            S =       0.3571                167,847
UJnited Kingdom                Pound                      341,438            $=        0.3571                956.027
UJnited States                 Dollar                       - - -            S =                               --
tiruguay                       Peso                     2,844,619            $=        1.519               1,872,631
Venezuela                      Bolivar                  4,564,421            $ =       3.35                1,362,514
Yugoslavia                     Dinar                2,156,512,242            $ =     300.00                7.188.374
Restricted Currency (NOTE B)                                                 $129,781,910
Unrestricted Currency (Belgium, Canada, United Kingdom and United States)        7.935.286
5137,717,196
Nom-Member Currency (Switzerland)                                                                            13,398.628
Total                                                         S 151 -,115,824
[ 47



APPENDIX D
Statement of Loait
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENC
Loan                                                                                            Date of
Number    Borrower and Guarantor                             Program or Project              Loan Agreement    Maturiti,
29 AU    Australia                                Equipment and materials for development    Aug. 22, 1950   1955-19'
14 BE    Belgium                                 Equipment for steel and power industries    Mar. 1, 1949   1953-19(
48 BE                                             Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
velopment Plan of the Belgian Congo      Sept. 13, 1951   1957-19i
Belgium (Guarantor)
47 BE       Belgian Congo                         Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
velopment Plan of the Belgian Congo      Sept. 13, 1951   1957.-19:
*65 BR    Brazil                                  Railway rehabilitation                      June 27, 1952   1955-19(
Brazil (Guarantor)
11 BR      Brazilian Traction (First Installment)   Electric power development and telephone
equipment                                Jan. 27, 1949   1953-19
11 BR-S    Brazilian Traction (Second Installment) Electric power development                Jan. 18, 1951   1955-19-
25 BR      Sao Francisco Hidro Elec. Co.          Electric power development                 May 26, 1950   1954-19'
*64 BR      Comissao Estadual de Energia Eletrica   Electric power development                June 27, 1952   1957-19
Chile (Guarantor)
5 CH       Fomento and Endesa                    Electric power development                 Mar. 25, 1948   1953-19(
6 CH      Fomento                                Agricultural development                   Mar. 25, 1948   1950-19'
49 CH      Fomento                                Exploration and use for irrigation of under-
ground water resources                   Oct. 10, 1951   1955-i9(
43 CO    Colombia                                 Highway construction and rehabilitation    Apr. 10, 1951   1954-19(
Colombia (Guarantor)
18 CO      Caja de Cr6dito                        Agricultural development                   Aug. 19, 1949   1952-191
38 CO      CHIDRAL                                Electric power development                 Nov. 2, 1950   1954-19-
39 CO      Caldas Hidro-Elec. Co.                 Electric power development                 Dec. 28, 1950   1952-19-
54 CO      Hidro6lectrica del Rio Lebrija         Electric power development                 Nov. 13, 1951   1954-19
3 DE    Denmark                                  Equipment and materials for reconstruction
and development                          Aug. 22, 1947   1953-19-
El Salvador (Guzarantor)
22 ES       Comisi6n del Rio Lempa                Electric power development                 Dec. 14, 1949   1954-19
31 ET    Ethiopia                                 Highway rehabilitation                      Sept. 13, 1950   1956-19-
32 ET                                             Foreign exchange for Development Bank      Sept. 13, 1950   1956-199
*42 ET                                             Rehabilitation and extension of telephone
and telegraph systems                    Feb. 19, 1951   1956-iT
21 Fl    Finland                                  Equipment for timber production            Oct. 17, 1949   1950-19'
Finland (Guarantor)
16 FI      Bank of Finland                        Electric power development and equipment
for wood products industries and lime-
stone powder production                  Aug. 1, 1949   1953-19(
*61 FI      Bank of Finland                        Electric power, wood products industries
and agricultural development             Apr. 30, 1952   1955-19,
[48 ]



APPENiDIX D
-June 30, 1952
See Notes A, D and E of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix F
Interest                                                                                                L nlisnbursed
Rate       Original     Loans    Cancellations    Principal    Obligations   Effective Loans    Principal  Balance of
(Including    Principal   Not Yet      and        Repayments  of Borrowers   Outstanding     Amount       Effective
Commission)   Amount      Effective   Reftundings   to Bank    Sold by Bank   Held by Bank    Disbursed     Loans'
4,/4%   $100,000,000  $    -      $   -        $   -        $   -        $ 100,000,000  $ 64,707,067  $ 35,292,933
4Y4 %    16,000,000       -            -            -        16,000,000        -           13,626,913     2,373,087
4'%     30,000,000       -            -            -           -           30,000,000      4,575,000    25,425,000
4Y27%    40,000,000       -            -            -                       40,000,000      6,101,000    33,899,000
4> 5s°o    12,500,000    12,500,000    -                                -                     -             -
4Y2%     75,000,000       -            -            -         3,379,632     71,620,368    68,835,530      6,164,470
4Y4%     15,000,000       -            -            -            -          15,000,000      8,458,441     6,541,559
4Y4%     15,000,000       -            -            -            -           15,000,000    10,116,728     4,883,272
434%     25,000,000    25,000,000      -            -            -             -                            -
414%7c    13,500,000      -            -            -            -          13,500,000     7,706,498      5,793,502
3/4%      2,500,000       -            -           518,000      991,000        991,000     2,500,000        -
4Y8%      1,300,000       -            -            -            -           1,300,000       347,896       952,104
3,'8/%o    16,500,000     -            -            -            -          16,500,000     7,950,347      8,549,653
3 f i2%   5,000,000       -            74,559      500,000    1,180,000      3,245,441     4,925,441        -
4%,      3,530,000       -            -            -            -           3,530,000     1,629,260      1,900,740
4%       2,600,000       -            -                         95,000      2,505,000     2,172,453       427,547
4Y;%      2,400,000       -            -                         --          2,400,000     1,342,079      1,057,921
414 %    40,000,000       -            -            -            -          40,000,000    40,000,000        -
414%     12,545,000       -                         -            -          12,545,000     5,620,140      6,924,860
4%       5,000,000       -            -            -            -           5,000,000      3,721,299     1,278,701
4%       2,000,000       -            -            -            -           2,000,000        66,555      1,933,445
4%       1,500,000     1,500,000      -            -            -             -               - -
3%'      2,300,000        -          197,869    2,102,131       -             -            2,102,131       -
4%       12,500,000       -           -            -          1,559,010     10,940,990    10,467,451     2,032,549
43Y4 %   20,000,000    20,000,000      -            -            -             -              -             -
(Continued)
[49]



APPENDIX D
Statement of Loanis
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
Loan                                                                                            Date of
Number    Borrower and Guarantor                             Program or Project               Loan Agreement   Maturities
France (Guarantor)
1 FR      Credit National                        Equipment and materials for reconstruction
and development                          May  9, 1947   1952-1977
46 IC    Iceland                                  Electric power development                 June 20, 1951   1956-1973
53 IC                                             Agricultural development                   Nov. 1, 1951   1956-1973
17 IN    India                                    Railway rehabilitation                     Aug. 18, 1949   1950-1964
19 IN                                             Agricultural development                   Sept. 29, 1949   1952-1956
23 IN                                             Electric power development                 Apr. 18, 1950   1955-1970
26 IRQ   Iraq                                     Construction of a flood-control project    June 15, 1950   1956-1965
Italy (Guarantor)
*50 IT      Cassa per II Mezzogiorno              Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
veflopment Plan of Southern Italy        Oct. 10, 1951   1956-1976
4 LU    Luxembourg                               Equipment for steel mill and railroads     Aug. 28, 1947   1949-1972
Mexico (Guarantor)
12 ME      Financiera and Comision                Electric power development                 Jan.  6, 1949   1953-1973
13 ME      Financiera and Comisi6n                Electric power development                 Jan.  6, 1949 July 1, 1950
24 ME       Mexican Light and Power Co., Ltd.    Electric power development                  Apr. 28, 1950   1953-19. s
33 ME      Consortium of Eight Mexican Banks      Foreign exchange for small private enter-
and Nacional Financiera               prises                                   Oct. 18, 1950   1952-1957
56 ME      Financiera and Comisi6n                Electric power development                 Jan. 11, 1952   1955-1977
2 NE    Netherlands                              Equi ment and materials for reconstruction
ans development                          Aug. 7, 1947   1954-1972
2a NE                                             Equipment and materials for reconstruction
and development (Supplemental Loan
Agreement)                               May 25, 1948   1953-1954
Netherlands (Guarantor)
7, 7a NE    N.V. Stoomvaart Mij. "Nederland'      Purchase of S.S. Raki and S.S. Roebiah     July 15, 1948   1949-1958
.S NE      N.V. Vereenigde Schvrt. Mij.          Purchase of S.S. Almkerk                   July  15, 1948   1949-1958
9 NE      N.V. Ned.-Amer. Stoomvaart-Mij.   Purchase of S.S. Alblasserdijk                  July  15, 1948   1949-1958
"Holland-Amerika Lijn"
10, 10a    N.V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd               Purchase of S.S. Friesland and S.S. Drente  July  15, 1948   1949-1958
NTE
15 NE      Herstelbank                           Equipment for reconstruction and modern-
ization of particular industrial plants  July 26, 1949   1952-1964
59 NE      KLM Royal Dutch Airlines               Purchase of aircraft                       Mar. 20, 1952   1954-1958
45 NI    Nicaragua                                Highway construction              J-e - 7, 1951   1954-1961
52 NI                                             Construction of grain storage facilities   Oct. 29, 1951   1954-1962
Nicaragua (Guarantor)
44 NI      Banco Nacional de Nicaragua            Agricultural development                   June  7, 1951   1954-1958
60 PAK   Pakistan                                 Railway rehabilitation                     Mar. 27, 1952   1954-1967
*62 PAK                                            AgriculturaL development                   June 13, 1952   1954-1959
*55 PA    Paraguay                                 Agricultural development                   Dec.  7, 1951   1954-1960
[ 50]



APPENDIX D
-June 30, 1952 (Continued)
See Notes A, D and E of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix F
Interest                                                                                               Undisbursed
Rate      Original      Loans    Cancellations    Principal    Obligations   Effective Loans    Principal  Balance of
(Including    Principal   Not Yet      and       Repayments  of Borrowers   Outstanding      Amount       Effective
Commission)   Amount      Effective   Refunudings    to Bank   Sold by Bank   Held by Bank    Disbursed     Loans'
4Y4%lo  $250,000,000  $    -     $    -         $   -       $ 5,335,000  $ 244,665,000  $250,000,000  $    -
4y8%      2,450,000       -            -            -            -           2,450,000      1,159,381     1,290,61S
4Y2%      1,008,000       -            -            -            -           1,008,000       457,157       550,842
4%      34,000,000       -         1,200,000    3,484,518    2,811,100     26,504,382    32,800,000        -
3Y2%     10,000,000       -         1,500,000      850,000    2,505,000       5,145,000     4,205,830     4,294,17(
4%      18,500,000       -            -            -            -           18,500,000     8,965,307     9,534,692
33Y4%c    12,800,000      -            -            -                        12,800,000     3,834,435     8,965,56W
4Y-%     10,000,000    10,000,000      -            -            -                    -              -
4Y4%i°   12,000,000       -           238,017      171,983     1,007,000     10,583,000    11,761,983
4'2%     24,100,000       -            -            -           794,600     23,305,400    15,522,586      8,577,41'
4'2%0    10,000,000       -        10,000,000 (Refunding)        -                            -             -
4'2%     26,000,000        -           -            -           250,000      25,750,000    19,576,710     6,423,11)
3Y2%     10,000,000       -         9,443,997       13,650       -             542,353       222,090        333,91:
4'Y;%    29,700,000       -            -            -            -           29,700,000      594,771    29,105,22,
4Y4%    191,044,212       -            -            -           820,000    190,224,212    191,044,212
4Y4%      3,955,788       -            -            -          3,025,015       930,773      3,955,788
3Y16%     4,000,000       -            -            -         4,000,000        -            4,000,000
3/9 lC/o  2,000,000       -            -            -         2,000,000        -            2,000,000
33%6%     2,000,000       -            -            -          2,000,000       -            2,000,000
3Yfi/6%   4,000,000       -            -            -          4,000,000       -            4,000,000
4%      15,000,000       -         7,070,000       -           849,331       7,080,669     5,563,815     2,366,18
4Y8%      7,000,000       -            -            -         3,500,0002      3,500,000       -           7,000,00
4'8%      3,500,000       -                                      -            3,500,000     1,012,508     2,487,49
438%        550,000       -                         _            -             550,000        104,568       445,43
4%       1,200,000       -            -            -            -            1,200,000       734,367       465,63
4~i%     27,200,000       -            -            -            -           27,200,000      710,650    26,489,35
4Y8%      3,250,000     3,250,000      -            -            -             -              -              -
43g%      5,000,000     5,000,000      -            -            -             -
(Continue4
[ 51



APPENDIX D
Statement of Loals
EXPRESSED IN UNITED S' T 'EAS Cl RREN C
Loan                                                                                                      Date of
Number      Borrower and Guarantor                                  Program or Project                 Loan Agreement   AlaIzaurirs
57 PE      Peru                                        Port development                                Jan. 23, 1952    1954-1967
40 SA     South Africa                                 Expansion of transport facilities               Jan. 23, 1951    1956-1965.
South Africa (Guarantor)
41 SA        Electricity Supply Commission             Electric power development                      Jan. 23, 1951    1954-1970
35 TH      Thailand                                    Railway rehabilitation                          Oct. 27, 1950    1954-1966
36 TH                                                  Irrigation                                      Oct. 27, 1950    1956-197r
37 TH                                                  Port construction and development               Oct. 27, 1950    1954-1966
27 TU     Turkey                                       Construction of grain storage facilities        July   7, 1950    1954-1968
28 TU                                                  Port construction and development               July   7, 1950    1956-1975
*63 TU                                                  Electric power development, irrigation and
flood control                                June 18, 1952    1957-1977
Turkey (Guarantor)
34 TU        Industrial Development Bank of Turkey Foreign exchange for development of pri-
vate industry                                Oct. 19, 1950    1957-1965
United King,dom (Guarantor)
58 SR        Southern Rhodesia                         Electric power development                      Feb. 27, 1952    1956-1977
Uru,uuay (Guarantor)
30 UR        U. T. E.                                  Electric power development and telephone
equipment                                    Aug. 25, 1950    1955-19- .
20 YU    Yugoslavia                                    Equipment for timber production                 Oct. 17, 1949    1950-1951
51 YU                                                  Equipment for electric power, coal mining,
non-ferrous metal development, industry,
forest products, agriculture and fishery,
and transportation projects                  Oct. 11, 1951    1955-1976
TOTAL LOANS GRANTED
Of the Undisbursed Balance of Effective Loans, the following amounts have been irrevocably committed by the Bank:
Loan
Number            Borrower                    To Whom Committed            Amount
5 CH        Chile (Endesa)                     To Third Parties         $ 1,011,334
11 BR        Brazilian Traction
(First Installment)                Borrower                 6,164,470
11 BR-S      Brazilian Traction
(Second Installment)               Borrower                 4,173,110
16 Fl        Bank of Finland                    To Third Parties             658,613
26 IRQ       Iraq                               To Third Parties            1,327,183
27 TU        Turkey (Grain Storage)             To Third Parties             821,464
28 TU        Turkey (Ports)                     To Third Parties             281,122
32 ET        Ethiopia (Bank)                    To Third Parties             166,000
36 TH        Thailand (Irrigation)              To Third Parties             946,043
37 TH        Thailand (Ports)                   To Third Parties              10,915
38 CO        Colombia (Anchicaya)               To Third Parties             175,020
51 YU        Yugoslavia                         To Third Parties           17,065,275
54 CO        Colombia (Lebrija)                 To Third Parties            . 308,748
Total          $33,109,297
'Participation of The Chase National Bank of the City of New York.
'The amount of currency repayable may differ from the amount of currency disbursed as a result of the purchase of one currency with another for purpose
of disbursement. The currency used to make the purchase is the currency repayable.
* Denotes Loans Not Yet Effective.
f 52 ]



APPLINDIX P
-June 30, 1952 (Continued)
See N,ctei A, D and E of No/es to Financial Statements, Appendix F
Interest                                                                                                       Ulndisb6rsed
Rate       Original       Loans    Cancellations    Principal     Obligaiionis   Effective Loans    Principal   Balance of
(Including    Principal     Not Yet        and        Repayments   of Borrowers   Outstanding       Amount         Effectiv e
.Commission)    Amount       Effective    Refundings     to Bank     Sold by Bank   Held by Bank     Disbursed        Loans
4%2//o   $ 2,500,000  $      -      $     -        $    -        $    _       $     2,500,000  $               $   2,500,000
3 334%$°    20,000,000                                                             20,000,000     10,635,432       9,364,568
4%.      30,000,000         --                                                    30,000,000     10,858,093     19,141,907
334%       3,000,000                                                    -           3,000,000        228,040       2,771,960
4%nc     18,000,000         - --                                                  18,000,000      8,145,219      9,854,781
3 $44      4,400,000         _             _            -             275,000       4,125,000        556,340       3,843,660
3,7P/9%    3,900,000         -            -              -             -            3,900,000        665,853       3,234,147,
434 %    12,500,000         -            -             -              -           12,500,000        451,451      12,048,54(*
434°%o    25,200,000    25,200,000        -             -              -             -                -              --
33/i$%    g9,000,000                       _                          -             9,000,000        107,850       8,892,150
4 4'%.1,    28,000,000       -            -             -             -            28,000,000         -          28,000,000
4Y4%      33,000,000         -            -             -             -            33,000,000      5,992,234      27,007,- 56
3%        2,700,000         ----                    2,700,000        -                            2,700,000         -
4,I %     28,000,000                                    -                          28,000,000      4,965,234      23,034,766
$1,412,133,000  $102,450,000  $29,724,442  $10,340,282   $56,376,688  $1,213,241,588  $876,504,133   $403,454,425
SUMMARY BY CURRENCY
Principal Amount Disbursed                   Principal Recovered
Carrency Disbursed           Currency Repayable'      By Repayment or Sale        Balance Oatstand ng
United States              United States             United States               United States
Currency           Amount  Dollar Equiv.        Amount Dollar Equiv.    Amount Dollar Equiv.        Amount   Dollar Equiv'.
Belgian Francs       1,232,942,637  $ 27,168,563  124,353,292  $  2,739,801   1,571,600  $   35,963    122,781,692  $   2,703,838
Canadian Dollars       46,991,573    43,779,244    26,627,461    24,380,903    4,170,432    3,946,125   22,457,029    20,434,77T
Danish Kroner           3,591,579      519,981      3,514,448      508,814     -           -             3,514,448       508,814
French Francs,       1,426,989,073   4,080,938    1,273,086,344  3,641,551     -           __        1,273,086,344     .,641,551
German Marks             4,876,600   1,161,413        -            -           -                   -              -
Italian Lire          281,984,584     451,550     211,980,570      339,169     -           -           211,980,570      339,169
Netherlands Guilders    1,624,417      564,405        340,500      89,605      -                          340,500        89,605
Norwegian Kroner          698,400      97,814         283,200      39,648      -           -              283,200        39,648
Swedish Kronor         14,254,504    2,820,163        166,897       32,262     -            _             166,897         32,262
Swiss Francs           62,012,257    14,447,286    52,512,301    12,181,087   16,895,000    3,931,356   35,617,301     8,249,731
United Kingdom Pounds    9,265,610    26,236,514    1,769,334    5,186,774     -           -             1,769,334     5,186,774
United States Dollars  755,176,262   755,176,262  827,364,519  827,364,519    58,803,526   58,803,526  768,560,993    768,560,993
$876,504,133                $876,504,133             $66,716,970                $ 809,787,163
Plus-Undisbursed Balance of Effective Loans  403,454,425
Effective Loans Outstanding Held by Bank  $1,213,241,588
I 53  i



APPENDIX E
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power
June 30, 1952
EXPRESSED. IN UNITED  STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statemerts. Appendix F
Amounts Paid In
In Currency of Non-Interest-                      Subject to
Subscriptions                        Member Otber Bearing, Non-                        Call to Meet
Than United    Negotiable         Amounts        Obligations Number
Amount        United States States Dollars  Demand Notes          Due           of Bank        of
Mllember          Shares       (Note J)         Dollars        (Note B)         (Note B)       (Note C)         (Note 1)    Votes
1  Australia           2,000    $ 200,000,000    $  4,0Q0,000    $   360.368    $ 35,639,632    $  -            $ 160,000,000      2,250    ]
2   Austria             500         50,000,000       1,000,000          90,000       8,910,000        -             40,000,000       750    2
3   Belgium            2,250       225,000,000       4,500,000       3,844,422      36,655,578        -            180,000,000     2,500    3
4  Bolivia               70          7,,00QO           140,000          12,600       1,247,400        -              5,600,00O       320    4
5  Brazil              1,050       105,000,000       2,100,000      18,900,000         -              -             84,000,000     1,300    5
6  Burma                150         15,000,000         300,000          27,000       2,673,000        -             12,000,000       400    6
7  Canada              3,250       325,000,000       6,500,000      16,675,909      41,824,091        -            260,000,000     3,500    7
8  Ceylon               150         15,000,000         300,000          32,997       2,667,003        -             12,000,000       400    8
9  Chile                350         35,000,000         700,000       6,300,000         -              -             28,000,000       600    9
10   China             6,000        600,000,000       9,030,9D0       1,080,000     106,920,000     2,970,000       480,000,000     6,250   10
11   Colombia            350         35,000,000         700,900       6,300,000                        -             28,000,000       600  11
12  Costa Rica            20          2,'000,            40,000         360,000         -              -              1,600,000       270  12
13   Cuba                350         35,000,000         700,000          63,000       6,237,000        -             28,000,000       600  13
14  Czechoslovakia      1,250       125,9000,00       1,875,900         225,000      22,275,900       625,000       100,000,000     1,500   14
15   Dcnmark             680         68,000,000       1,360,000         991,066      11,248,934        -             54,400,000       930  15
16   Dominican
Republic           20          2,000,000          40,000           3,600         356,400        -              1,600,000       270  16
17   Ecuador              32          3,200,000          64,000         576,00         -               -              2,560,000       282  17
I8   Egypt               533         53,300,000       1,066,000         95,940        9,498,060        -             42,640,)O       783   13
19  El Salvador           10          1,000,000         20,000          180,000        -              -                 800,000       260  Is
20   Ethiopia             30          3,000,000          60,000         540,000         -              -              2,400,000       280  2(,
21   Finland             380         38,000,000        760,000        6,840,000        -              -              30,400,000       630  21
22   France             5,250       525,000,000      10,500,000       7,915,332      86,584,668       -             420,000,000     5,500   2.
23   Greece              250         25,000,000         500,000       4,500,000         --             _             20,000,000       500  23
24   Guatemala            20          2,000,000          40,000         360,930         -              -              1,600,000       270  24
25   Honduras             10          1,000,000          20,000         180,000         -              -                800,000       260  25
26  Iceland               10         -1,000,000          20,000         180,000         -              -                800,000       260  26
27  India               4,000       400,000,000       8,000,000         721,800      71,278,200        -            320,000,000     4,250   27
28  Iran                 336         33,600,000         672,000          60,480       5,987,520        -             26,880,000       586  28
29  Iraq                  60          6,000,000         120,000          20;880       1,059,120                       4,800,000       310  23
30  Italv               1,800       180,000,000       3,600,000      32,400,000         -                           144,000,00      2,050   30
31   Lebanon              45          4,500,000          90,000         810,OCO         -              -              3,600,000       295  31
32   Luxembourg          100         10,000,000         200,000          18,000       1,782,000        -              8,0,000         350  32
33   Mexico              650         65,000,000       1,300,000      11,700,000         -              -             52,000,000       900  33
34   Netherlands        2,750       275,000,0<0       5,500,000         552,632      48,947,368        -            220,000,000     3,000   34
35   Nicaragua             8            800,000          16,000         144,000         -              -                64C,Q00       258  35
36   Norwxav             500         50,000,000       1,000,000         174,C00       8,826,000        -             40,000,000       750  36
37  Pakistan            1,000       100,000,0)        2,000,000         180,008      17,819,992        -             80,000,000     1,250   37
38   Panama                2            200,000           4,000          36,000         -              -                160,000       252   3S
39  Paraguay              14          1,400,000          28,000         252,000         -              -              1,120,000       264  39
40  Peru                 175         17,500,000         350,000          31,500       3,118,500        -             14,000,000       425  40
41   Philippines         150         15,000,000         300,930       1,200,000       1,500,000        -             12,000,000       400   41.
42  Sweden              1,000       1,00,000,00       2,00C,000      18,000,000                        -             80,000,000     1,250   42
43   Svria                65          6,500,000         130,000          11,700       1,158,300        -              5,200,0Q       315  43
44  Thailand             125         12,500,000         250,000          22,500       2,227,500        -             10,000,000       375  44
45   Turkey              430         43,000,000         860,000          77,400       7,662,600        -             34,400,000       680   45
46   Union of
Sourh Africa     1,000       100,000,000       2,000,000         180,000      17,820,000        -             80,00O,000     1,250  46
47   Unred Kingdom   13,000      1,300,000,000      26,000,000       4,050,000     229,950,000        -           1,040,000,000    13,250   47
48   United States     31,750     3,175,000,000     635,000,000         -               --                         2,540,000,000    32,000   48
49   Uruguay             105         10,500,000         210,000       1,890,00C0        -  .                          8,400,000       355  49
50   Venezuela           105         10,500,000         210,000       1,365,000         525,000        -              8,400,000       355  50
51   Yugoslavia          400        40,000,000         800,000        7,200,000        --                            32,u00,000       650  51
84,535   $8,453,500,000   $736,975,000   $157,731,134   $792,398,866   $3,595,000   $6,762,800,000   97,285
[54 ]



APPENDI F
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1952
NqOTE A                                                  from any additional currency furnished under the pro-
Amounts in currencies other than United States dol-    visions of the present paragraph, and which has not
lars have been translated into United States dollars:    been repurchased by the member for gold or for the
currency of any member which is acceptable to the
(i) In the cases of 41 members, at the par values    Bank.
established under the International Monetary Fund         (b) Whenever the par value of a member's cur-
Agreement as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values"  rency is increased, the Bank shall return to such mem-
published by the International Monetary Fund; and      ber within a reasonable time an amount of that mem-
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 10 members        ber's currency equal to the increase in the value of the
(Austria, Burma, Canada, China, France, Greece,        amount of such currency described in (a) above.
Italy, Peru, Thailand and Uruguay), the par values of     (c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs
whose currencies are not so specified, at the rates    may be waived by the Bank when a uniform propor-
used by such members in making capital payments.       tionate change in the par values of the currencies of
(iii) In the case of non-member currency, all Swiss  all its members is made by the International Monetary
francs, at the rate of 4.2975 Swiss francs to 1 United  Fund.
States dollar.
No representation is made that any of such currencies  NOTE C
i's convertible into any other of such currencies at any  Under Article 1I, Section 8 (a) (i), any original
rate or rates. See also Note B.                        member of the Bank whose metropolitan territories suf-
fered from enemy occupation or hostilities during World
NOTE B                                                 War II had a right to postpone payment of 1/2 of 1I% of
These currencies and notes are derived from the 18%o  the amount of its subscription payable in gold or United
of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which  States dollars until June 25, 1951. All members who
is payable in the currencies of the respective members,    received such a postponement have made payment in full
Such 18%  may be loaned by the Bank, and funds re-    except China and Czechoslovakia. China has made a
ceived by the Bank on account of principal of loans    payment of $30,000 and has stated that it recognized its
made by the Bank out of such currencies may be ex-     obligation to the Bank and would pay the balance of
changed for other currencies or reloaned, only with the  $2,970,000 as soon as it was in a position to do so.
approval in each case of the member whose currency is  Czechoslovakia has claimed a further postponement un-
involved; provided, however, that, if necessary, after the  der Article II, Section 8 (a) (ii). On August 21, 1951,
Bank's subscribed capital is entirely called, such curren-    the Executive Directors rejected such claim. The Exec-
cies may, without restriction by the members whose cur-    utive Directors thereafter reported such action to the
rencies are offered, be used or exchanged for the curren-  Board of Governors which, on September 13, 1951, ap-
cies required to meet contractual payments of interest,    proved such report.
other charges or amortization on the Bank's own borrow-
ings or to meet the Bank's liabilities with respect to con-  NOTE D
tractual payments on loans guaranteed by it. These cur-  The Bank has sold under its guarantee $41,499,001
rencies of the several members, and the notes issued by  of borrowers' obligations received by the Bank in con-
them for any part of such currencies, as permitted under  nection with its loan operations of which amount a
the provisions of Article V, Section 12, are held on de-    total of $4,641,000 has been retired. Of the total of
posit with designated depositories in the territories of  $36,858,001 of obligations outstanding under guarantee
the respective members.                                $2,373,087 is reflected in the balance sheet as a direct
Article II, Section 9 provides for the maintenance of    liability subject to withdrawal.
value of such 18% currencies as follows:
(a) Whenever (i) the par value of a member's cur-  NOTE E
rency is reduced, or (ii) the foreign exchange value   The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans and
of a member's currency has, in the opinion of the    the accrued charges for interest, commitment fee, service
Bank, depreciated to a significant extent within that    charge and loan commission are receivable in United
member's territories, the member shall pay to the Bank  States dollars except the following amounts for which
within a reasonable time an additional amount of its    the dollar equivalent is shown:
own currency sufficient to maintain the value, as of the  Principal Outstanding         $41,226J171
time of initial subscription, of the amount of the cur-                          .
rency of such member which is held by the Bank and        Accrued Interest, Commitment
derived from currency originally paid in to the Bank        and Service Charges             321,439
by the member under Article II, Section 7 (i), from       Accrued Loan Commissions           85,810
currency referred to in Article IV, Section 2 (b), or         Total                     $41,633,420
[55]



APPENDIX F
NOTE F                                                    NOTE I
Thc amount of commissions received by the Bank on         Subject to call by the Bank only wie:       i
loans made or guaranteed by it is required under Article  meet the obligations of the Bank crc.tcd ha 1I
IV, Section 6, to be set aside as a special reserve to be  or guaranteeing loans.
keplt available for meeting obligations of the Bank       NOTE j
crcated by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all        In terms of United States dolhlir'    i
loans granted to date the effective rate of commission is    fineness in effect on JrIlv 1 19 l l
1 rr    annum.
GENERAL
NOTE G                                                      The application for memberslip Ir t I
As sinking funds, the Bank has agreecl to purchase      Kingdom of the Jordain (proposed suhs, ript,o    n I,!
and retire or redcem bonds in varying amounts calcuLlated  lion) was approved by the Board of Governors on Apr!l
to retire bv maturity 33-1/37O of the Canadian Dollar     21, 1952 and that country will have until Septembcrt 3o.
issue and 50%7  of the Sterling Stock and the United       1952 to accept membership in the Bank. The appi(.l-
States Dollar Bonds except the Serial Bonds. On June      tions by the Federal Republic of Germany (proposed 
27, 1952, the Executive Directors authorized the re-      subscription $330 million) and by Japan (proposed sub-
27, 1952,                                  ~~~~~~~~~~scription $250 million) were approved by the Board of
demption on or before September 1, 1952 of the 21/2%?     Governors on May 28, 1952 and those countries havc
Swiss Franc Serial Bonds of 1948, due 1953-54 in the      until August 15, 1952 to accept membership in the Bank.
principal amount of Sw fr 17 million. A premium of
of I'  (equivalent to $19,779) will be payable.        LITIGATION
A suit has been commilenced by an individual plaintiff
NOTE H                                                    against the Bank  asking damages of approximately
Pursuant to action of the Board of Governors and        $625,000 for alleged interference with plaintiff's con-
Executive Directors the net income of the Bank has been   tractual relationships (Frank H. Redicker z. Irarfiei
et al., U. S. District Court, Southern District of New
allocated to a General Reserve Against Losses on Loans    York, Civil No. 61-210). The Bank has denied the
and Guarantees Made by the Bank; and the future net       substance of the charges contained in the complaint and
income of the Bank will, until further action by the      has been advised by trial counsel that the suit is without
Executive Directors or the Board of Governors, be allo-   merit. At June 30, 1952 there was no other litigation
cated to this reserve.                                    pending against the Bank.
[ 56 ]



APPENDIX G
Opinion of Independent Auditor
1000 VERMONT AVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON 5, D.C.
August 12, 1952
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT,
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 1952.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted audit-
ing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes thereto,
present fairly the financial position of the Bank at June 30, 1952, expressed
in United States currency, and the results of its operations for the twelve
months then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1952 ......................  APPENDIX A
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the
Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1951 and June 30, 1952   APPENDIX B
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30,
1952 ......................................   APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1952 .................  APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting
Power-June 30, 1952 ........................  APPENDIX E
Notes to Financial Statements ......................  APPENDIX F
[ 57]



I%  I                                        I        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      



APPENDIX  Ii
Administrative Budget
For the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1953
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1953, as prepare] by the
President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. For purposes of
comparison there are also outlined below the administrative expenses incurred during the fiscal years ended June 30,
1951 and 1952.
Actual Expenses                                Budget 1953
1951                        1952
BOARD OF GOVERNORS                            $ 223,136                     $ 114,220                    S 206,000
OFFICE OF EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS                                      278,630                       276,360                      305,000
STAFF
Personal Services             2,503,469                     2,759,133                    3,063.500
Staff Benefits                 295,522                       320,633                       356,500
Consultants                    120,703                       107,927                       100,000
Travel                         345,352                       378,170                       363,000
Representation                  43,504       3,308.550        41,833       3,607.696        40,000       3,923,000
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES
Fees & Compensation             55,119                        47,809                        46,000
Supplies                        42,130                        39.676                        36,000
Rents & Maintenance            335,040                       394,868                       412,000
Communications                 101,575                       112,332                       102.000
Furniture & Equipment           39,634                        34,953                        31.000
Books & Library Services        56,554                        69,375                        73,000
Printing                        39,201                        39,701                        40,000
Insurance                       29,040                        16,704                        38.0no
Other                            1,001         699,294         3,361         758.779        -             7,S.000
CONTINGENCY                                      -                              -                            100,000
TOTAL                                 $4,509,610                    $4,757.055                    $5,312,000
SPECIAL SERVICES TO
MEMBER COUNTRIES                               333,837                       380,303                      400,000
GRAND TOTAL                           $4,843,447                   $5,137,358                    S5,712,000
No estimate has been made of bond registration, issuance and other financial expenditures for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1953. The amount of bonds which may be issued by the Bank during the next year is not known.
These expenditures may amount to about $100,000, exclusive of commissions and premiums, for each  l100 million
of bonds which the Bank may issue.
I ") I



A     tDENJI)E,-
5~~~~~~~~~~~,ran Ti                                                                 I,'.
MEsiFR  CO1UNTIRIES                                                                                             -   -f.v0tn of Dollars1j                                   i'4lt
A-ustin .1             . .....
Bel,cium .       .. .....                   .......2....2 
Bulc:ia                                                          5z.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 2        1                           7.0'8
Print!  . .   .    .                                     3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41 05.0                                                         1 1
Burr,a       ....                 ..         ........                               40fl                                                           M)
Canada             ....             ......            ......                .       46003 61                                                     32 5.0 
China            ....               ......                       ...               620                             (6-4                          6 D00.0                               C
C.olo)mbia    ..         ..  .......                       .....60                                                                                 3 5.0
Costs~ Rlh a    ...... . .                      ....               ..                   -                             2                              2.0                           I.02
C-,-ba   ............ .  ............600                                                         62                          3-5.0
Czechoslovak,i       ....                         .....I,C 40                                                                                     125.0                           1.18
Denmark.............                                                                   93 0                           "6.
Dominican  Republic                     .     ..     ......2 70                                                       28                             2. 0                           .0 2
Ecuador         2.........'82                                                                                         219                            3.2                            .04
Egypt   ..... ...                           .......783                                                                80C                          53.3                             .63
Elk  Salvador          ..                                                             260,                           .27                             1.0                            01I
Ethiopia                                .......280                                                                      930)                                                        .04
FPInan,d                                                                              632...... ..3 8 0                                                                              45
Fmance           ....                  .......4...                                  5.5,00                            61525,0                                                     6...2
..               ..  ..   ..    ..    ...     ..   ..    .5..0                                                                             25,0                              1
-iuatemala    ....270                                                                                                 2 t                            2.0
Honduras   ...........260                                                                                             21.0.0
l:elan!..........                                .....                                2c                                                             1,0
India                                                 4>0                              4 7             ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4c.0  4.>'
Iran,                                 .............                                                                                                                                  42
Iraq                     ......                  .0.
le a non               . ....                ......                                 295                                                            4.5                            (
Luxe mbourg ..350
Mfexico   .......                         .........9 0 0                                                                                           6.
N,~herlands   . ... ... ...                           .....                       3, 0CC03   8                                                  25C                              3.26i
i :c-aagu-,a    ...                                                                  212...    .... ...  
Pakctau    ...............2..1020                                                                                                                                         .2g
Pana-ma    . . ...              ............6
Paraguay                                      ........264                                                                7                             .4                              2
Philpipanes           . . ... .. . ...                                                  Lu                                                         15011                            2
Thiad .  ...............2.5                                                                                                                                                  .1'
Tu-,r ke2!y                            6..2..2..                                                                        &(                         43.0
Union  of  Souh  Afr'a........a.1,250                                                                                                            100 0..c                         1.18
Uniited  Kingdom                 1....                 .. ..I32 210,                                              .623 0                                                        15.38
United States... .... .....                                                      3 2, 0u                           32.89                        17.                             37.56
Ujrugu-ay,,...    ........356                                                                                                                       10 5 
Venezuela               ......  ......                                                                              6.. 
aLess tIlan .005 pcatent.
60



APPENDIX I
Governors and Alternates as ofJune 30, 1952
MEMBER GOVERNMENT                     GOVERNOR                               ALTERNATE
AUSTIRALIA                             Sir Arthur Fadden                      Sir Percy Spender
AUSTIRIA                               Reinhard Kamitz                        Wilhelm Teufenstein
BELGIUM                                Albert-Edouard Janssen                 Maurice Frere
BOLrIVA                                Hector Ormachea Zalles                 Jaime Gutierrcz Guerra
BRAZIL                                 Horacio Lafer                          Octavio Paranagua
BURMA                                  Minister of Finance                    General Manager,
Union Bank of Burma
CANADA                                 D. C. Abbott                           John Deutsch
CEYLON                                 J. R. Jayewardene                      Sir Claude Corea
CHILE                                  Arturo Maschke                         -vacant-
CHINA                                  Chia Kan Yen                           Peh-Yuan Hsu
COLOMBIA                               Emilio Toro                            Ignacio Copete-Lizarralde
COSTA RICA                             Angel Coronas                          Mario Fernandez
CUBA                                   Luis Machado                           Joaquin E. Meyer
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                         Jaroslav Docekal                       Antonin Bezkocka
DENIJARK                               Svend Nielsen                          Hakon Jespersen
DoM1NICAN REPUBLIC                     Wenceslao Troncoso                     Nicolas Vega
ECUADOR                                Luis Ernesto Boria                     Ramon de Ycaza
EGYPr                                  Ahmed Zaki Saad Pasha                  A. Nazmy Abdel Hamid Bey
EL SALVADOR                            Catalino Herrera                       Luis Escalante-Arce
ETHIOPIA                               Jack Bennett                           Ato Menassie Lemma
FINLAND                                Artturi Lehtinen                       Ralf Torngren
FRANCE                                 Minister of Finance                    Pierre Mendes-France
GREECE                                 George Mavros                          Gregorios Zarifopoulos
GUATEMALA                              Manuel Noriega Morales                 Carlos Leonidas Acevedo
HONDUkAS                               Rafael Heliodoro Valle                 Guillermo Lopez Rodezno
ICELAND                                Jon Arnason                            Thor Thors
INDIA                                  Sir Chintaman D. Deshmukh              Sir Benegal Rama Rau
IRAN                                   Ali-Asghar Nasser                      Abbas-Gholi Neysari
IRAQ                                   Abdul Wahab Mirjan                     Abdul-Ghani Al-Dalli
ITALY                                  Donato Menichella                      Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
LEBANON                                Joseph Oughourlian                     Raja Himadeh
LUXE.MBOURG                            Pierre Dupong                          Pierre Werner
MEXICO                                 Carlos Novoa                           Mario R. Beteta
NETHERLANDS                            P. Lieftinck                           A. M. de Jong
NICARAGUA                              Guillermo Sevilla Sacasa               Rafael Huezo
NORWAY                                 Gunnar Jahn                            Ole Colbjornseri
PAKISTAN                               Mohammad Ali                           Amjad Ali
PANAMA                                 Roberto Heurtematte                    Julio E. Heurtematte
PARAGUAY                               Juan R. Chaves                         Victor A. Pane
PERU                                   Fernando Berckemeyer                   -vacant-
PHILIPPINES                            Miguel Cuaderno, Sr.                   Emilio Abello
SWEDEN                                 N. G. Lange                            S. T. G. Akermalm
SYRLk                                  Husni A. Sawwaf                        Rafik Asha
THAILAND                               Prince Viwat                           Kajit Kasemsri
TURKEY                                 Hasan Polatkan                         Munir Mostar
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA                  N. C. Havenga                          M. H. de Kock
UNITrED KINGDOM                        Richard Austen Butler                  Sir Leslie Rowan
UNIrED STATES                          John W. Snyder                         David K. E. Bruce
URUGUAY                                Carlos Quijano                         Nilo Berchesi
VENEZUELA                              Manuel Reyna                           Carlos M. Lollet C.
YUGOSLAVIA                             Lavoslav Dolinsek                      Bogoljub Lazarevic
[ 61]



APPENDIX K
Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power
As ofJune 30, 1952
VOTES BY           TOTAL
DIRECTORS                 ALTERNATES             CASTING VOTES OF           COUNTRY            VOTES
Appointed
Andrew Overby             John S. Hooker            United States                   32,000          32,000
Sir Edmund Hall-Patch     Allan Christelow          United Kingdom                  13,250          13,250
Yueh-Lien Chang           Tsoo-Whe Chu               China                           6,250           6,250
Roger Hoppenot                                       France                          5,500           5,500
B. K. Nehru               B. R. Shenoy               India                           4,250           4,250
Elected
Thomas Basyn              Ernest de Selliers         Belgium                         2,500)
(Belgium)                 (Belgium)               Denmark                           930           4,410
Finland                          630
Luxembourg                       350)
Manuel Jose Diez          Julio E. Heurtematte       Mexico                           900
(Panama)                  (Panama)                Cuba                              600
Philippines                      400
Uruguay                          35 5
Venezuela                        355 5
Costa Rica                        270           4,180
Dominican Republic               270
El Salvador                      260
Honduras                         260
Nicaragua                        258
Panama                           252
Guillermo Perez-Chiriboga  Oswaldo Garcia            Brazil                          1,300)
(Ecuador)                 (Ecuador)               Chile                             600
Colombia                         600
Peru                              425           4,061
Bolivia                           320
Ecuador                          282
Guatemala                        270
Paraguay                          264J
Louis Rasminsky           G. Neil Perry              Canada                          3,500
(Canada)                  (Canada)                Iceland                           260~           3,760
J. W. Beyen               Karl Skjerdal              Netherlands                     3,000),
(Netherlands)             (Norway)                Norway                            750            3,750
Yaqub Shah                Djahangir Boushehri        Pakistan                        1,250
(Pakistan)                (iran)                  Egypt                             7,
Iran                              586           359
Syria                             315 8
Iraq                              310
Lebanon                          295J I
Leslie Galfreid Melville    L. H. E. Bury            Australia                       2,250)          3,500
(Australia)               (Australia)             Union of South Africa            1,250
Costantino                *Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza   Italy                           2,050
Bresciani-Turroni         (Italy)                 Austria                            750           3,300
(Italy)                                           Greece                            500
Cabir Selek               Boonma Wongswan            Turkey                            680)
(Turkey)                  (Thailand)              Yugoslavia                        650 l
Ceylon                            400           2,385
Thailand                          375
Ethiopia                          280 J
* Acting temporarily.
Member countries unrepresented by an Executive Director: Czechoslovakia with 1,500 votes.
Sweden with 1,250 votes.
Burma with 400 votes.
[62]



APPENDIX K
;[n addition to the Executive Directors and Alternates shown on the foregoing list, the following also served as
Executive Directors or Alternates since June 30, 1951.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                                          End of Period of Service
William McChesney Martin, Jr. (United States)                 February 20, 1952
Sir Ernest Rowe-Dutton (United Kingdom)                       May 18, 1952
ALTERNATE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
Sir Sydney Caine (United Kingdom)                             September 19, 1951
D. S. Savkar (India)                                          October 31, 1951
W. R. Natu (India)                                            November 29, 1951
Eduardo Sala2ar (Ecuador)                                     December 31, 1951
Nasrollah Djahanguir (Iran)                                   January 21, 1952
Thoralf Svendsen (Norway)                                     February 29, 1952
Harry L. Wolfson (Canada)                                     March 31, 1952
[63 ]



APPENDIX L
Principal Officers of the Bank
As ofJune 30, 1952
Eugene R. Black .............             .    .........           .... President
Robert L. Garner .............. .........                     .... Vice President
William  A. B. Iliff ............                         Assistan.t to President
A. S. G. Hoar ............                                        Loan Director
D. Crena de Iongh ............                                          Treasurer
Leonard B. Rist .............  ,  Economic Director
Davidson Sommers .............                                  General Counsel
Morton M. Mendels ............. Secretary
George L. Martin .............                           Director of Marketing
*Chauncey G. Parker ..............                   Director of Administration
Harold N. Graves, Jr ..............                 Director of Public Relations
Richard H. Demuth ....... Director of Technical Assistance and Liaison
* Mr. Parker submitted his resignation on July 15, 1952, to be effective July 28. William F.
Howell has been appointed to succeed him as Director of Administration.
[64 1



