l1O13
I Itc. X
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
T HE WO 0R LD  B AN K
.W.es.~~~~~~~RE ,'  ..R
1 99 7 -4






THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997
i



Cover photo montage copyright by The World Bank Group
Photo credits          Frontispiece, Jonathan Miller; pages viii and xii, Michele lannacci/World Bank;
page 20, Curt Carnemark/World Bank; page 23, Jerri Dell; page 26, Edwin Huffman/World Bank;
page 31, Jan Pakulski/World Bank; page 46, W. Graeme Donovan;
page 55, Curt Carnemark/World Bank; page 62, Rebeca Robboy;
page 72, Curt Carnemark/World Bank; page 82, Curt Carnemark/World Bank;
page 87, World Bank; page 132, Edwin Huffman/World Bank; page 142, Richard A. Latoff and Co.
Design                 Book and cover design: Joyce Petruzzelli, Graphic Design Unit, The World Bank Group
Chart design: Jennifer Sterling, Graphic Design Unit, The World Bank Group
Typography: Debra Malovany and Christopher Chapman, Graphic Design Unit, The World Bank Group
Editorial              Lesley Anne Simmons, Office of the Publisher, The World Bank Group
Editorial assistance   Marketa Jonasova and LaVerne Campbell, Office of the Publisher, The World Bank Group
Production             Stephanie Gerard, Office of the Publisher, The World Bank Group
World Wide Web design  Sherry Holmberg, Office of the Publisher, The World Bank Group
ISSN: 0252-2942
ISBN: 0-8213-3760-2
iv THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT                                                199 7
CONTENTS
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL    VilI
THE WORLD BANK GROUP: THE IBRD, IDA, IFC, ICSID AND MIGA    X
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD    XII
OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK ACTIVITIES IN FISCAL 1997    1
SECTION ONE  THE EXECOTIVE BOARD    10
SECTION TWO   MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS-FISCAL YEAR 1997   13
Poverty reduction activities   13
Human development   17
Gender   21
Social development   22
Environmentally sustainable development   24
Finance, private sector, and infrastructure development   29
Research   34
SECTION THREE  1997 REGIONAL PERSPECTIVES   37
Africa   37
East Asia and Pacific   48
South Asia   57
Europe and Central Asia   65
Latin America and the Caribbean    74
Middle East and North Africa   84
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED FOR IBRD, IDA, IDA INTERIM TRUST FUND,
AND TRUST FUND FOR GAZA AND THE WEST BANK ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL 1997   92
SECTION FOUR  WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION    113
Institutional renewal   113
Development effectiveness   114
Operations evaluation    115
Commitments and guarantees   117
Disbursements   118
Cofinancing and trust fund programs   121
Technical assistance   126
Inspection Panel   127
Public Information Center   127
Administrative budget and corporate planning   128
SECTION FIVE WORLD BANK FINANCES    133
IBRD financial highlights   133
Financialpolicies   133
Loans   134
Liquid asset management    135
Borrowings and liability management   135
Capital   138
IDA finances   139
v



iBRD/IDA APPENDIXES    143
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT    185
SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION    219
SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE INTERIM TRUST FUND    240
INDEX    249
BOXES
The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPc) Debt Initiative   2
Working at the Grassroots   22
Partnerships Improve Pearl Millet   28
Railway Concessioning   33
Capacity Building for Development   45
Initiatives to Promote Private Participation in Infrastructure in East Asia and the Pacific   54
Building Social Capital   63
Assisting Reforms in the Pension System    69
Supporting Peace in Guatemala   79
The West Bank and Gaza-Expanding and Diversifying Bank Group Support   90
Workshop on Large Dams   116
The Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund    126
Requests for Inspection    128
The Interim Trust Fund    139
Review of IDA Activities in Fiscal Years 1994-96    140
TABLES
Operational and Financial Overview, Fiscal Years 1993-97    8
Program of Targeted Interventions, Fiscal Years 1995-97    14
Patterns in World Bank-NGO Operational Collaboration, Fiscal Years 1986-97    16
World Bank PPI Operations, Fiscal Years 1988-97    32
Lending to Borrowers in Africa, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1988-97    40
World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Africa, Fiscal Years 1992-97   41
Operations Approved During Fiscal Year 1997, Africa   42
Lending to Borrowers in East Asia and Pacific, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1988-9 7   49
World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in East Asia and Pacific,
Fiscal Years 1992-97   51
Operations Approved during Fiscal Year 1997, East Asia and Pacific   52
Lending to Borrowers in South Asia, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1988-97    58
World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in South Asia,
Fiscal Years 1992-97   60
Operations Approved during Fiscal Year 1997, South Asia   61
Lending to Borrowers in Europe and Central Asia, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1988-97   66
World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Europe and Central Asia,
Fiscal Years 1992-97   67
Operations Approved during Fiscal Year 1997, Europe and Central Asia   70
vi THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Lending to Borrowers in Latin America and the Caribbean, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1988-97    77
World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Latin America and
the Caribbean, Fiscal Years 1992-97    78
Operations Approved during Fiscal Year 1997, Latin America and the Caribbean    80
Lending to Borrowers in Middle East and North Africa, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1988-97    85
World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Middle East and North Africa,
Fiscal Years 1992-97    88
Operations Approved during Fiscal Year 1997, Middle East and North Africa   89
Trends in IBRD and IDA Lending, Fiscal Years 1995-97    117
World Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal year 1997    119
IBRD and IDA Disbursements for Foreign and Local Expenditures   120
IBRD and IDA Disbursements for Foreign Expenditures, by Source of Supply   121
Total IBRD and IDA Lending and Cofinancing Operations, Fiscal Years 1994-97   122
World Bank Cofinancing Operations, by Region, Fiscal Years 1996-97    124
Trust Fund Disbursements   125
IBRD Medium- and Long-Term Borrowings, Fiscal Year 1997    136
IBRD Borrowings, after Swaps, Fiscal Year 1997    138
FIGURES
IBRD and IDA Commitments and Disbursements, Fiscal Years 1993-97   5
IBRD and IDA Lending to the Poorest Countries, Fiscal Years 1988-97    9
Types of NGOs Involved in Bank-financed Projects, Fiscal Years 1992-97    15
1BRD and IDA Lendingfor the Social Sector, Fiscal Year 1997    17
World Bank Lendingfor Environment Projects, Fiscal Years 1986-97   24
IBRD and IDA Lending to Sectors with Potential for Private Sector Involvement,
Fiscal Year 1997   30
Africa, Growth of GDP and Exports   38
Africa, Accounting for Growth   39
Africa: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector, Fiscal Year 1997   44
East Asia and Pacific: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector, Fiscal Year 1997    50
Poverty in East Asia: Percent of Population Below the Poverty Line   53
South Asia: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector, Fiscal Year 1997    59
Europe and Central Asia: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector, Fiscal Year 1997    68
Latin and America and Caribbean GDP Growth Rate and Inflation Rate, Fiscal 1991-96    75
Latin America and the Caribbean IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector, Fiscal Year 1997    76
Middle East & North Africa IBRD and IDA Commitments by sector, Fiscal Year 1997    86
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA Assistance by Region, Fiscal Year 1997    118
IBRD and IDA Commitments, Fiscal Year 1997    118
Cofinancing by Region, Fiscal Years 1996-97    123
Trust Fund Contributions and Disbursements, Fiscal Years 1994-97    125
IBRD/IDA Income and Expenditure at a Glance, Fiscal Year 1997    129
vii



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL
This Annual Report, which covers the period July 1, 1996, to June 30, 1997, has been
prepared by the executive directors of both the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA) in accor-
dance with the respective by-laws of the two institutions. James D. Wolfensohn, president
of the IBRD and IDA and chairman of the boards of executive directors, has submitted this
The IBRD and IDA Executive Board and Senior Management, November 996
viii THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Report, together with accornpanying administrative budgets and audited financial
statements, to the board of governors.
Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for Settlement
of Investment Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.
Executive Directors              Alternates
G  Khalid M. Al-Saad                (vacant)
Khalid H. Alyahya                Ibrahim M.Al-Mofleh
Juanita D. Amatong               Murilo Portugal
-.                        _                    / .......... ll 2 l          2 Marc-Antoine Autheman  Olivier Bourges
Ali Bourhane                     Luc-AbdiAden
Ka~im Brachemi                   AdlKarim Lodhi
Andrei Bugrov                    Eugene Miagkov
Juan Cariaga                     Julio Nogues
Joaquim R. Carvalho              Godfrey Gaoseb
Enzo Del Bufalo                  Inigo Fernandez de Mesa
-a   ,    .          _ l        | l 2       Jean-Daniel Gerber               Jan Sulmicki
Leonard Good                     Winston Cox
Luc Hubloue                      Namik Dagalp
Jannes Hutagalung                Sun Vithespongse
~ Ruth Jacoby                                                           Jorgen Varder
Young-Hoi Lee                    Christopher Y. Legg
_________________             ~~Li Yong                         Zhao Xiaoyu
Atsuo Nishihara                  Akira Kamitomai
Gus O'Donnell                    David Stanton
Franco Passacantando             Helena Cordeiro
=-___.   -              Jan Piercy                       Michael Marek
Helmut Schaffer                  Erika Wagenh6fer
Surendra Singh                   Syed Ahmed
Pieter Stek                      Mioara Ionescu
-Q~  __                                     July 31, 1997
ix



THE WORLD BANK GROUP                               THE IBRD, IDA, IFC,
ICSID AND MIGA
The World Bank, which      these five institutions are    Conservative lending policies,
consists of the International  known as the World Bank     strong financial backing from
Bank for Reconstruction and   Group.                       members, and prudent finan-
Development (IBRD) and the      The IBRD, established in   cial management give the IBRD
International Development     1945, is now owned by the    strong standing in the markets.
Association (IDA), has one    governments of 180 countries.   As well as borrowings, the IBRD
overarching goal: helping its  To join the IBRD, countries  is funded by the capital its
borrowers reduce poverty. It  must first be members of the  members have paid in, its re-
is a partner in strengthening  International Monetary Fund    tained earnings, and repay-
economies and expanding      (tMF). Upon joining the IBRD  ments on its loans.
markets to improve the qual-    members subscribe to its capi-    IDA was established in 1960
ity of life for people every-  tal stock. The amount of    to provide assistance to poorer
where, especially the poorest.   shares each member is allo-  developing countries that can-
The IBRD and IDA make      cated reflects its quota in the  not meet the IBRD's near-com-
loans to borrower govern-    IMF, which in turn reflects the    mercial terms. IDA provides
ments for projects and pro-   country's relative economic  credits to the poorest coun-
grams that promote economic   strength in the world        tries-mainly those with an
and social progress by helping    economy. Members pay in a  annual per capita gross na-
raise productivity so that    small portion of the value of    tional product of $785 or less
people may live better lives.  their shares; the remainder is    (in 1996 U.S. dollars). By this
Along with these loans, the   "callable capital" and would  criterion, about seventy coun-
World Bank provides advice    only be paid should the IBRD  tries are eligible (see appen-
and technical assistance. The  be unable to meet its obliga-  dix 5).
International Finance Corpo-    tions-a situation that has   All members of the IBRD are
ration (IFC)-which works     never arisen.                 eligible to join IDA, and 159
closely with private investors  The IBRD lends only to credit  have done so. Unlike the IBRD,
and invests in commercial en-    worthy borrowers and only for   most of IDA'S funds are con-
terprises in developing coun-    projects that promise high real  tributed by its richer mem-
tries-and the Multilateral In-   rates of economic return to  bers, although some develop-
vestment Guarantee Agency    the country. As a matter of   ing countries contribute to IDA
(MIGA)-which encourages di-   policy, the IBRD does not re-  as well. In addition, IDA re-
rect foreign investment in de-   schedule payments, and it has    ceives transfers from the net
veloping countries by offering    suffered no losses on the loans   earnings of the IBRD and repay-
insurance against noncommer-   it has made. While it does not    ments on its credits.
cial risk-share the same over-   aim to maximize profits, but  IDA credits are made only to
all goals. The International  rather to intermediate devel-    governments. The repayment
Centre for Settlement of     opment funds at the lowest     period is thirty-five to forty
Investment Disputes (ICSID)  cost, the IBRD has earned a net   years. Credits carry no inter-
shares the World Bank's objec-   income every year since 1948.   est, but there is a commitment
tive of promoting increased    The IBRD borrows most of     charge, which is set annually,
flows of international invest-    the money it lends through  within a range of 0-0.5 per-
ment by providing facilities  medium- and long-term bor-    cent of the undisbursed bal-
for settling disputes between  rowings in capital markets  ance; the commitment charge
foreign investors and their  across the globe. It also bor-  is currently set at zero per-
host countries. Collectively,  rows funds at market-based   cent. Although IDA is legally
rates from central banks and
other government institutions.
x  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



and financially distinct from the IBRD, it shares  are a common feature of international invest-
the same staff, and the projects it supports have    ment contracts, investment laws, and bilateral
to meet the same criteria as do projects sup-      and multilateral investment treaties. ICSID has
ported by the IBRD.                                127 members. In addition to its dispute-settle-
Under its Articles of Agreement, the World      ment activities, ICSID undertakes research, advi-
Bank cannot allow itself to be influenced by the    sory services and publishing in the fields of arbi-
political character of a member country: Only     tration and investment law. Its publications
economic considerations are relevant. To ensure    include multivolume collections of "Investment
that its borrowers get the best value for the      Laws of the World" and "Investment Treaties"
money they borrow, Bank assistance is untied      and the semi-annual "ICSID Review-Foreign In-
and may be used to purchase goods and services    vestment Law Journal." ICSID issues its own
from any member country.                          annual report, which may be obtained from the
The IFC, established in 1956, helps promote     ICSID Secretariat'.
private sector growth in developing countries        MIGA was established in 1988 to promote the
and helps mobilize domestic and foreign capital    flow of foreign direct investment in member
for this purpose. It has 172 members. Legally     countries. It does this by providing guarantees
and financially the IFC and the World Bank are    to private investors against major political risks
separate entities, and the IFC has its own operat-    and offering investment marketing services to
ing and legal staff It draws upon the World Bank    host governments to help them attract foreign
for administrative and other services, however.   investment.
The IFC provides loans and makes equity in-       MIGA is an independent self-supporting agency
vestments in support of projects. Unlike most     of the World Bank Group. Like the IFC, it has its
multilateral institutions, the IFC does not accept    own capital base and country membership, but
government guarantees for its financing. Like a   it shares the World Bank's development man-
private financial institution, the IFC seeks profit-    date to promote the economic growth of its de-
able returns and prices its finance and service,  veloping member countries.
to the extent possible, in line with the market      MIGA has 141 members. MIGA issues its own
while taking into account the cost of its funds.   annual report, which may be obtained from its
The IFC shares full project risks with its private-    Office of Central Administration2.
sector partners. The iFc issues its own annual
report.
ICSID was established in 1966 to help promote    1. International Centre for Settlement of Investment
international investment. It does this by provid-    Disputes, Secretariat, 1818 H Street N.W, Washington,
ing facilities for the settlement, by conciliation  D.C. 20433, USA.
2. The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, Office
and arbitration, of disputes between foreign in-  of Central Administration, 1818 H Street N.W., Washing-
vestors and their host countries. Provisions re-  ton, D.C. 20433 USA.
ferring to arbitration under the auspices of ICSID
xi



MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
This Annual Report, covering July 1, 1996 to June 30,
1997, chronicles a year of renewal at the World Bank.
Strengthening partnerships and getting results in serving the
poorest people in the world are two recurring themes run-
ning through these pages. Nowhere have these two objec-
tives been better illustrated than in the strengthened work-
ing relationship that is being forged between management
and staff of the World Bank and its shareholders represented
by the Executive Board.
Over the last ten years the environment for the Bank's
clients has changed dramatically. While official development
assistance has declined, private capital flows have surged.
But they have been concentrated in a comparatively small
number of countries. At the same time, the role of civil
society and that of the private sector have become more pronounced, governments have
become more accountable for their actions, and all the players rely on the new capacity to
share knowledge rapidly as a result of dramatic changes in technology.
As the Bank has recognized these developments, we have introduced new approaches to
ensure that the lending and advice we provide is what our clients really need. One conse-
quence of the reform process is of special note. Institutional change, encapsulated in the
Strategic Compact, has been given momentum by a joint commitment by management and
the board to enhance the latter's role in defining policy directions.
The Executive Board's unanimous approval of the Strategic Compact last March,
whereby investment in changes over the next two years will lead to a much stronger and
xii THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



cost-effective institution in the future, was    business plan, which is embodied in the
an important step in further strengthening  Strategic Compact. By the fiscal year 2001,
the relationship between the Bank and its  we have committed to returning our real
shareholders. The executive board will have   operating costs to this year's level while
an integral role in monitoring the Strategic    providing a higher level of service and
Compact and ensuring its success as man-  greater volume of products to our clients.
agement reports regularly to the board on  To ensure that our shareholders see a re-
progress in implementing policy initiatives.   turn on the investment that we are making
We now have symmetry in the roles of     to renew the Bank, we are building up our
management and the board in approving     capacity to evaluate our institutional perfor-
projects and changes in the Bank's policies:    mance against clearly defined objectives.
projects are discussed as part of broader  Fifty years after the Bank made its first
country assistance strategies, while changes   loan, we are poised to enter the new millen-
in specific policies will increasingly be con-    nium with fresh vigor and more attuned
sidered within the overall policy framework   to our clients needs than ever before.
established by the Strategic Compact.      Almost 5 billion people who live in our
The changes the Bank is undertaking have   client countries deserve the benefits that an
the specific objective of making the Bank  effective and competent World Bank, at the
the most effective institution in the world  heart of a global network of development
in the fight against poverty. We aim to   assistance, can provide.
reach this goal through a clearly defined
JAMES D. WOLFENSOHN
xiii






OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK ACTIVITIES IN FISCAL 1997
Fiscal 1997 marked an         * As the reforms of the      North Africa region. Loans to
escalation of the process of  1990s took root in South       Jordan and Tunisia, for ex-
renewal at the World Bank,    Asian countries, the Bank sup-   ample, are helping promote
building on the vision of an  ported its clients as they     private sector participation in
institution that delivers devel-   shifted their focus to a second    the wider world economy and
opment results and reflecting  generation of reform: In India    facilitating important recent
the Bank's guiding principles    this involved responding to  initiatives such as the pro-
of greater selectivity in activi-   several requests for assistance    posed association of MENA
ties, strengthened partnerships,   at the state level to help  countries with the European
emphasis on client needs, in-  evaluate fiscal situations and  Union.
creased results orientation,  identify policy options to pro-  One of the year's most sig-
cost-effectiveness, and a strong   mote fiscal sustainability.  nificant achievements was the
commitment to financial         * Strengthening safety nets    initiative to address the debt
integrity,                    to protect the most vulnerable   of the heavily indebted poor
The Bank's regional assis-  people from the adverse ef-    countries (HIPcs), which com-
tance strategies in fiscal 1997    fects of reform is a priority for   bines powerful partnerships to
addressed the specific needs of   many of the Bank's clients, es-    meet new needs, using
its clients as they face the  pecially in the Eastern Europe    nonlending and lending ser-
challenges of adjusting to a  and Central Asia region. In fis-   vices with funding drawn not
rapidly changing global       cal 1997 the Bank supported    only from the Bank but from
economy. Examples include:    innovations to generate in-    other partners (see box). An-
- Following a request for   come and create assets for the    other was the Executive
support by the Bank's African    poor through social invest-  Board's unanimous approval
clients in fiscal 1996, capacity    ment funds in a number of  of the Strategic Compact in
building remained high on the    countries and through projects   March 1997.
agenda. Efforts to mainstream    such as support to the Ukrain-  The Strategic Compact is a
capacity-building activities  ian authorities to protect     plan for fundamental reform
into all Bank operations were    people adversely affected by  to make the Bank more effec-
initiated, and development of    coal sector restructuring.  tive in delivering its regional
a partnership framework         . In Latin America, where    program and in achieving its
began.                        the legacy of recent years has    basic mission of reducing pov-
* In East Asia, where suc-  made countries acutely aware    erty. The compact is an ex-
cessful economic development   of the importance of sound fi-   pression of the Bank's business
has taken a heavy toll on the  nancial markets, the Bank sup-   strategy and focuses on the ex-
environment, and "brown en-    ported a number of programs    ternal delivery of higher-qual-
vironmental issues" such as air   to restore confidence in finan-   ity products and services to
and water pollution are threat-   cial systems, such as in Argen-   the Bank's clients. The com-
ening health and sustainable  tina, Mexico, and Venezuela.   pact was the outcome of ex-
development, the Bank in-       - Supporting reform pro-    tensive consultation through-
creased its support for the sec-   grams to speed growth by pro-   out the organization, reflects
tor with loans and related ad-    moting international competi-   the input of clients and share-
vice for water supply and     tiveness and opening up to     holders, and has the support
sanitation, for example, which    global markets was a focus for    and partnership of all the
increased more than two-and-    clients in the Middle East and    Bank's shareholders.
one-half times over the fiscal                                 Through the compact, the
1996 level.                                                  Bank's shareholders and man-
agement are investing in and
OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK AcTIvIEs  I



THE HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES (HIPC) DEBT INITIATIVE
In September 1996 the Interim and Development    cate about $260 million to $330 million to the HIPC
committees endorsed the program of action proposed  Trust Fund during the years 1997 to 2003. A num-
by the Bank and the International Monetary Fund  ber of bilateral donors have also made contributions
(iMF) to ensure that heavily indebted poor countries  or pledges to the World Bank's HIPC Trust Fund to
(HiPcs) that have a sound track record of economic  help other multilateral creditors provide their share
adjustment can attain a sustainable debt situation  of debt relief under the initiative.
over the medium term. The committees requested the  In April 1997 the executive boards of the IMF and
Bank and Fund to proceed quickly with implementa-   the World Bank approved, in principle, assistance
tion and to report on progress at the spring 1997  under the HIPC Debt Initiative for Uganda, the first
meetings.                                       country to reach the "decision point." Under this de-
Over the next six months the Bank and the Fund  cision, which depends upon the participation of
moved rapidly to implement the initiative and to  Uganda's other creditors and the implementation of
consider the assistance that could be provided for the    agreed reforms, debt relief to Uganda, in net present
first group of eligible countries. This marked an im-  value terms, will total about $340 million. In view of
portant development in the support that the Bank  Uganda's exceptional record of sustained and strong
and the Fund and the international community was    adjustment and reform, and under the program of
to provide to the poorest, most heavily indebted  economic reforms and social development to be pur-
countries.                                      sued with the support of the IMF and the Bank, the
The principal vehicles for Bank participation in  boards agreed to shorten, on an exceptional basis,
the initiative were created in fiscal 1997. The Bank  the normal three-year interim period to one year The
established the HIPc Trust Fund in November 1996  expected completion point, therefore, is April 1998.
and subsequently allocated $500 million from its  IDA will provide $160 million of the debt relief, which
IBRD surplus to this trust fund as an initial contribu-    will reduce nominal debt service to iDA by about
tion. The IMF established the ESAF-HIPC Trust for fi-  $430 million over time.
nancing special Enhanced Structural Adjustment Fa-  Bank and Fund staff have prepared debt-
cility operations under the HIPC Debt Initiative.  sustainability analyses for other countries that on
The Bank chaired meetings of the multilateral  the basis of their record of performance are ap-
creditors of the HIPCs in November 1996 and March    proaching the decision point. The boards have dis-
1997 to discuss the implementation of the initiative  cussed preliminary analyses for Bolivia, Burkina
as well as the status of their participation in it. At  Faso, and Cote d'Ivoire, and consultations are
the end of the fiscal year, most of theses creditors had    underway that could progress to decision points for
either obtained or were well advanced in obtaining  these countries in the summer of 1997. In addition,
the appropriate institutional approvals to enable  Bank and Fund staff are preparing debt-sustainabi-
them to participate. The African Development Bank  lity analyses with the governments of several other
and the Inter-American Development Bank, both   countries.
principal creditors of the HIPCS, have obtained the  Total costs of the HIPC Debt Initiative, while tenta-
necessary formal approvals in principle for them to  tive, are in the range of $5.5 billion to $8.4 billion in
participate. The African Development Bank will allo-   net present value terms.
implementing a series of changes over thirty       progress will be measured and for which man-
months to transform the way the institution        agement will be held accountable.
does business: improving its products, speeding      The compact's vision is of a professionally ex-
up its processes, lowering its costs, making it    cellent institution that responds quickly to the
more demand driven, and increasing its devel-      evolving and varying needs of its clients and
opment impact. The compact will also establish     provides a wide range of high-quality services;
clear performance criteria against which           that operates through partnerships and acts as a
catalyst for private-public collaboration; and
2 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



that builds capacity and knowledge for the en-   * Rebuild technical expertise in key areas of
tire development community.                    development and expand the Bank's focus in
The compact is rooted in the recognition of  those areas-with the social sectors, institution
the need for change if the Bank is to be effec-  building, and the private sector being immedi-
tive in the rapidly changing global economy    ate priorities.
where private capital flows are five times       * Further decentralize activities to the field to
greater than official assistance, where many dif-    allow Bank staff to work more closely with cli-
ferent actors (from multilateral banks to non-  ents in order to better customize country assis-
governmental organizations) now play a much    tance strategies, design more appropriate condi-
greater role in development, and where techno-   tionality, and build local ownership of
logical change has revolutionized the way busi-    development programs.
ness is done. The Bank has been slow to respond  * Strengthen the Bank's information manage-
to these changes in the past-with overly bu-   ment system to collect, synthesize, and dissemi-
reaucratic processes, weak capacity in key areas    nate the best in development thinking.
such as the social sectors, institution building,  * Create new and stronger partnerships with
and banking, and the acceptance of insufficient    other organizations to enable the Bank to be
development impact in the projects it supports.    more selective and to specialize in those areas
But as this Annual Report describes, change was    where it has a comparative advantage.
well under way to meet the Strategic Compact's   * Reform the Bank's human resources system
objectives by the end of the fiscal year.      to create a more flexible, performance-based,
The central objective of the compact is to   and diverse institution.
make the Bank more efficient and to increase     * Eliminate cumbersome, inefficient pro-
the development effectiveness of everything it    cesses to make the Bank quicker, leaner, and
does. In terms of lending effectiveness, for ex-  more cost-effective.
ample, it is expected that the proportion of     Client benefits promise to be substantial:
projects rated satisfactory will increase from 66    higher-quality and more relevant products
percent to 75 percent, meaning that an extra $2    and services backed by an effective, modern
billion a year of the Bank's lending will have  knowledge-management system; and a staff that
greater impact.                                combines state-of-the-art technical skills and
The compact takes a comprehensive ap-        global experience within the context of a flatter,
proach to increasing the Bank's development ef-  faster, more flexible, and more decentralized
fectiveness in four priority and related areas: re-    organization.
fueling current business activities; refocusing  The compact's overall costs will be met
the development agenda; retooling the Bank's  through a stringent program of savings and re-
knowledge base; and revamping institutional    deployment. Net additional investment under
priorities. It will:                           the compact is $250 million. This funding will
* Shift resources from overhead and adminis-    be phased in to ensure that it is in line with the
tration to frontline operations, with the goal of    Bank's absorptive capacity: $100 million annu-
frontline resources accounting for 60 percent of   ally in fiscal 1998 and 1999 and $50 million in
the budget and supporting activities accounting    fiscal 2000; budgets will return to the fiscal
for 40 percent. The Bank's management has      1997 level, in real terms, by fiscal 2001. Ap-
committed to redeploying $170 million inter-   proval of the compact's funding will be contin-
nally to support frontline operations because  gent on the Executive Board's annual review of
the basic business of the Bank needs to be bet-    the Bank's budget and work program.
ter funded.                                      The fundamental retooling of the Bank's op-
* Develop new financial products and advi-   erations must be judged by its impact on devel-
sory services-with the emphasis on increasing  opment effectiveness. Therefore, a broad range
flexibility and timeliness for clients.        of specific measures for gauging effectiveness
OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK ACTIVITIES  3



and accountability are being developed. These  6.6 months in fiscal 1996 to 6.1 months in
include:                                       fiscal 1997.
* tracking development progress made by the    By the end of the fiscal year, 96 percent of
Bank's client countries (using the expanded   the backlog of Implementation Completion Re-
World Development Indicators');                ports (ICRS) was cleared. ICRs lay the foundation
* setting targets for responding to clients.  for a better future lending program based on
Clearly defined business standards have been   strategies that are well grounded in experience,
set for managing the portfolio and for lending  evaluation, and lessons learned.
and nonlending services: for example, the Bank   A more cost-effective, results-oriented Bank
is aiming to get projects approved within five  will lead to a stronger International Develop-
months of appraisal and economic and sector    ment Association (IDA). IDA borrowers will get a
reports to clients within five months of onset;  better-quality product, and IDA donors will have
and                                            greater confidence that their contributions are
* monitoring the main determinants of what    being used even more effectively.
makes projects go well or badly, such as ensur-  In fiscal 1997, disbursements from IDA contin-
ing that projects are well prepared, well super-  ued to increase (see figure 1), reflecting greater
vised, and that implementation problems are    emphasis on implementation. Disbursements
recognized and dealt with quickly.            reached a record $5,979 million, of which
In line with the Bank's aim for increasing re-    $4,815 million was for investment projects.
sults, portfolio management programs to im-      The temporary decline in new IDA commit-
prove the current portfolio accelerated during  ments in fiscal 1997 reflects both increased se-
fiscal 1997 through the quality-at-entry and   lectivity and the concentration of IDA resources
portfolio improvement programs. A key innova-    on improving implementation and the quality
tion was the concept of projects at risk, which is   of the existing portfolio. Selectivity is based on
helping to identify the potential as well as ac-  attaching increased importance to the policy
tual problem projects. The concept continues to    prerequisites for IDA lending of all types. Im-
be refined but already is serving as an additional   provements in policy performance in many
tool for portfolio management as well as en-   countries are expected to be reflected in future
abling more accurate reporting on the status of    increases in IDA commitments. While it is not
the portfolio.                                 yet possible to measure fully the transitional ef-
Staff were encouraged to recognize problems    fect of the reorganization of the Africa regional
early and to address them proactively. The     office, it is estimated to have been small. To the
portfolio improvement program, for example,    extent that this may have contributed to delays
targeted poorly performing segments of the    in new commitments during fiscal 1997, the
portfolio for special attention. Coupled with  now completed renewal program should result
improvements in quality-at-entry for new op-   in fiscal 1998 commitments returning to at least
erations, these intensified portfolio management   the level of fiscal 1996 (in SDR terms) as delays
efforts should lead to higher rates of satisfactory   are overcome and a quicker, more effective
outcomes.                                      regional program ensues.
"Stretch targets" for client responsiveness are  Promoting transparency, accountability, and
providing a measure for improving results and  institutional capacity is critical to successful,
client focus. They included substantial cuts in  sound, and equitable development and has been
elapsed time for provision of services during the    a key aspect of the Bank's development agenda
fiscal year: The average time elapsed between  in recent years. Building on these principles, the
appraisal and board consideration was reduced  Bank's president, in his 1996 Annual Meetings
from 9.3 months in fiscal 1996 to 7.8 months in   speech, emphasized the importance of eliminat-
fiscal 1997, and projects are becoming effective    ing corruption. The anticorruption measures
more quickly. The average time between board
approval and effectiveness is down from        i. World Bank.1997. World Development Indicators.
WashinTNon, D.C.
4 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Figure 1. IBRD and IDA Commitments and Disbursements, FiscalYears 1993-97
(US$ millions)
20,000                                               8,000
6,000
Disbursements
Disbursements
¼.                              ~~5,000  / 
10,000  1993     1994     1995     1996      1997    4,000   1993    1994      1995     1996     1997
IBRD                                                 IDA
Note: Excludes guarantees and loans to the IFC.
IBRD data for 1996 includes the refinanced/rescheduled overdue charges of $168 million for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
contained in the Bank's procurement guidelines,   tional financial institutions, United Nations
its standard bidding documents, and its legal         organizations, academia, foundations, business,
technical assistance were strengthened in fiscal      nongovernmental organizations (NGOS), and
1997. Many governments have strongly commit-    others. Some of these partnerships are described
ted themselves to fight corruption, and the Bank    throughout this Annual Report. A framework for
has worked with them to support their efforts to    cooperation in financial sector activities was
improve governance and public sector manage-          agreed between the World Bank Group and the
ment programs that aid efficient resource alloca-   International Monetary Fund (IMF), and a coop-
tion and reduce the possibilities for corruption,     eration agreement was finalized with the World
through lending and nonlending services. The          Trade Organization. It will facilitate closer work-
Economic Development Institute's (EDI)2 Gover-   ing relations for promoting global trade and
nance Program, initiated in fiscal 1994 to build      helping developing countries adopt open policies
national integrity systems to fight corruption,       to support growth and eliminate poverty.
is one example. EDI held more than thirty
governance-related activities in more than a
dozen countries across five regions in fiscal 1997.   2. The Economic Development Institute designs and
Creating new and stronger partnerships with         delivers training programs for Bank clients, providing policy
other organizations is enabling the Bank to be        lessons, skills building, and outreach to civil society. EDI
issues its own annual report, which is available from: New
more selective and specialize in those areas          Products and Outreach, The Economic Development
where it has a comparative advantage. In fiscal       Institute, The World Bank, 1818 H Street, N.W, Washington,
1997, progress was made in developing joint           D.C. 20433, USA.
programs and information sharing with interna-
OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK ACTIVITIEs  5



The Business Partnership Center, launched       Bank operations in countries emerging from
early in the fiscal year to serve as a focal point  conflict are an increasingly significant part of
of contact for the business community and for   the Bank's work, and the document "A Frame-
developing strategic partnerships with business  work for World Bank Involvement in Post Con-
groups, handled over 1,000 inquiries from       flict Reconstruction"3 provided a conceptual
members of the business community, had over     and operational framework for Bank staff work-
90,000 visitors to its World Wide Web site, and    ing to help countries move from conflict to sus-
featured in more than forty international con-  tainable economic development.
ferences. It is discussing potential partnership  Much of the Bank's postconflict reconstruc-
arrangements with more than fifteen groups      tion work has been in rebuilding infrastructure,
worldwide.                                      but capacity is also needed to promote eco-
The high level of NGO involvement in Bank-    nomic adjustment and recovery, to address so-
supported development activities was main-      cial sector needs, and to build institutional ca-
tained in fiscal 1997, with 47 percent of       pacity. Some lending operations in fiscal 1997
projects involving NGO participation in some    involve unique postconflict elements, including
capacity and with NGO liaison staff now active  clearing land mines in Bosnia and Herzegovina
in seventy-two of the Bank's resident missions.  and Croatia, demobilization and reintegration of
The country assistance strategy (CAS) posi-   ex-combatants in Bosnia, and reintegration of
tions the country client at the center of the   displaced people in Bosnia and Rwanda.
Bank's operational work. It is the key tool for   Two overall objectives for Bank intervention
shaping and driving the Bank's country-level    are set out in the framework: to facilitate the
work. Management and the board worked           transition to sustainable peace after hostilities
closely together to improve the strategic focus  cease and to support economic and social devel-
of CASS in fiscal 1997. The CAS has evolved con-    opment. The framework outlines a five-stage
siderably in its seven-year history, mirroring  process for Bank involvement corresponding to
many concomitant changes in the Bank itself-    various phases of postconflict reconstruction.
for example, this year, social issues of develop-  Sound financial systems are key to economic
ment began to be integrated into CAS work.      development, yet one in five developing coun-
Greater efforts were also made to further build    tries is at risk of facing banking problems. The
the results of poverty assessments into cAss; and    Bank has speeded up its response to clients fac-
to strengthen the private sector focus, a number   ing financial crisis and supported those vulner-
of CASS were prepared jointly by the Bank and   able to such risk. It prepared a series of loans to
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in  help the Bulgarian government implement a
fiscal 1997, including those for Brazil, Indone-  stabilization and reform program to address its
sia, Mexico, and Poland. As part of a larger strat-   financial crisis, for example. The first loan, in
egy to link lending and learning activities, EDI  August 1996, helped to restructure enterprises
helped prepare the CAS for Russia.              and supported banking sector rehabilitation and
The CAS starts with a diagnosis of country   the acceleration of privatization. This was fol-
challenges and client governments' concerns     lowed by a loan in May 1997 to reduce short-
and priorities. It takes into account what others    ages of vital commodities and build public con-
are doing and the lessons learned about what    fidence in the reform program.
has worked and what has not worked in the
Bank's and others' programs in the country. CASS
are discussed with the authorities of the bor-
3. World Bank. 1997. "A Framework for World Bank
rowing country and increasingly with other     Involvement in Post Conflict Reconstruction." Environment
partners and stakeholders.                      and Social Policy Division, Environment Department,
Washington, D.C.
6  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



To explore how the World Bank Group might   seminate and apply lessons of experience among
better help its clients promote and facilitate pri-   staff and clients. Through this system, complex
vate sector involvement in infrastructure, and in   information is distilled into usable formats for
response to the proposal made by the Governor    delivery to those who need it: policymakers,
for Japan during the 1996 Annual Meetings, an  parliamentarians, NGOS, and journalists, in ways
infrastructure working group was established in   that build vital understandings in member
fiscal 1997. It will report to the 1997 Annual  countries.
Meetings on how public-private partnerships      Four networks established in fiscal 1997 are
might be expanded to meet the growing invest-   at the center of the new knowledge-based Bank.
ment gap.                                      They are:
The Bank helped refocus the international      * Human Development;
community's attention on the needs of the 70     * Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
percent of the poor in developing countries    Development;
who live in rural areas by calling for a renewed  * Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure;
focus on agriculture and rural development in  and
fiscal 1997.The Executive Board endorsed the     * Poverty Reduction and Economic Manage-
paper, "Rural Development: From Vision to Ac-    ment.
tion,"4 which set out a strategy for supporting  The networks link staff who work in related
rural development by improving rural strategy  sectors across the Bank so they interact more ef-
formulation and consensus building; improving    fectively across the organization and with part-
project quality; increasing international aware-  ners outside the Bank and play a major role in
ness; and building staff capacity.             strategic thinking. In fiscal 1997 the Human
Nonlending activities are an increasingly im-  Development network prepared the first of a
portant service to clients. The Operations     new World Bank product-sector strategy
Evaluation Department (OED) conducted a re-    papers-for the health, nutrition, and popula-
view of the Bank's self-evaluation processes for    tion sector. Sector strategy papers are cross-
nonlending services as well as a review of the  cutting studies that are the sector equivalent of
EDI. Its recommendations for stronger evalua-  CASs. They present the World Bank's corporate
tions across all areas of the Bank's work have  strategy for the sector.
been incorporated into strengthened self-        The regional renewal programs began in fiscal
evaluation programs that will be carried out   1996 moved toward completion during fiscal
by management over the coming years.           1997. They aim to de-layer and simplify
Building a sound knowledge base to support   decisionmaking and delegate increased responsi-
nonlending (as well as lending) activities is at  bility to the field-twenty-one country direc-
the heart of the Strategic Compact. The Bank is   tors have been or are being relocated to field
made up of an unmatched repository of experi-   offices.
ence and understanding about development is-     During fiscal 1997, the IBRD'S Executive
sues, which too often has been underused. Too  Board approved new policies governing the
much knowledge has been locked up in reports    concentration of its loan portfolio and the size
that do not provide real-time and relevant ad-  and management of its liquid assets. These
vice to clients, colleagues, and partners. To meet   changes were designed to enhance the IBRD'S
client needs more effectively and better equip  flexibility in managing its finances and thereby
Bank staff, work began on developing a knowl-    better meet the changing needs of its clients
edge management system in fiscal 1997 to dis-
4. World Bank. 1997. "Rural Development: From Vision to
Action." Agriculture and Natural Resources Department.
Washington, D.C.
OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK ACTIVITIEs 7



TABLE 1. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL OVERVIEW, FISCAL YEARS 1993-97
(millions of us dollars unless otherwise noted)
Item                                     FY93       FY94      FY95       FY96      FY97
IBRD
Commitmentsa                            16,945    14,244    16,853    14,656b   14,525
Disbursementsa                          12,942    10,447    12,672    13,372b   13,998
Net disbursements to all borrowers'      2,331      (731)       897      1,213     2,094
Net disbursements to current borrowers,.  2,865        19     1,651     2,100      3,258
excluding prepayments,                  3,319       983      2,238     2,882      4,301
Net income                                1,130     1,051     1,354      1,187     1,285
Financial return on average investments   6.07%      3.53%     5.69%     4.43%      5.00%
New MLT borrowings in Fy after swaps    12,676      8,908     9,026    10,883    15,139
Average cost of new MLT borrowings
in Fr after swaps                        5.97%     4.99%     6.31%      5.28%     5.01%
Subscribed capital                     165,589   170,003   176,438   180,630   182,426
Statutory lending limit                179,787   185,865   195,248   197,785   198,705
Loans and callable guarantees outstanding   104,606   109,468   123,676   110,369   105,954
as a % of statutory lending limit         58%       59%        63%       56%        53%
Headroom                                75,181    76,397    71,572    87,416    92,751
Interest coverage ratio                    1.16%     1.16%     1.19%      1.18%     1.22%
Reserves-to-loans ratio                    11.7%     13.9%     14.3%      14.1%     14.0%
IDA
Commitments                              6,752      6,592     5,669     6,861      4,622
Disbursements                            4,947      5,532     5,703     5,884      5,979
Net disbursements                        4,580      5,110     5,205     5,322      5,364
Development credits outstanding         56,158    62,810    72,032    72,821    76,124
Accumulated surplus                      1,194      1,365     1,995      1,790     1,998
IRLDIDA Joint Activities
Administrative expenses                  1,254      1,389     1,540      1,376     1,188
a. Excludes guarantees and loans to the IFC.
b. Includes the refinanced/rescheduled overdue charges of $168 million for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
while preserving a strong, conservative financial    and 100 by IDA. Seven loans on IDA-like terms,
standing.                                        totaling $83.5 million from resources provided
by the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank,
Fiscal year in review                            were approved for the West Bank and Gaza.
Against this background, commitments by        Three partial guarantees, totaling $420 million,
the Bank were $19,147 million-$14,525            were approved. Gross disbursements amounted
million from the IBRD and $4,622 million from    to $19,977 million-$13,998 million from the
IDA; 36 percent of those, totaling $1,646 million,   IBRD, and $5,979 million from IDA. Table 1 pre-
were from the Interim Trust Fund. A total of     sents a comparative overview of Bank opera-
241 projects were approved, 141 by the IBRD      tions and finances for fiscal years 1993-97.
8 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Figure 2. IBRD and IDA Lending to the            the poor, to develop their human resources, and
Poorest Countries, Fiscal Years 1988-97          to provide social safety nets (for a description of
(US$ millions)                                   each such targeted project, turn to the project
summaries after Section Three).
Il,000                                              During fiscal 1997, fifty-five out of sixty-two
borrowers (89 percent) took advantage of the
new single-currency loans first made available
in fiscal 1996. Measured in terms of volume,
10,000  IDA                                       $12.9 billion out of $14.5 billion (89 percent)
in new loan commitments were in single-
currency loans.
The IBRD has 180 members. At the end of the
8,000                           - . . .          fiscal year, action was pending on membership
in the IBRD for Palau and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). IDA has 159
members. At the end of the fiscal year, action
6,000                                            was pending on membership in IDA for Barba-
6:000     dos, Ukraine, Venezuela, and the Federal Repub-
lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro).
4,000
2,000
0~i
1RJ.1)   1993   1994   1995   1996  1997
Note: The poorest countries are defined as those with a per
capita income of $785 or less in 1996 U.S. dollars.
Assistance to the poorest countries-those
with a per capita gross national product of $785
or less (in terms of constant 1996 United States
dollars)-totaled $7,442.9 million-$3,080.9
from the IBRD and $4,362.0 from IDA (see
figure 2).
Some 29 percent of total Bank investment
lending during the year directly targeted the
poor compared to 32 percent the year before.
These projects supported activities to increase
the productivity and economic opportunities of
OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK ACTIVITIES  9



SECTION ONE                                          THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
The Board of Executive      ness, Budget Committee,        important role in shaping
Directors is responsible for  Personnel Committee, and       Bank policy and its evolution
the conduct of the general    Committee on Executive Di-     as they work for changes in di-
operations of the Bank and    rectors' Administrative Matters.   rection, emphasis, and/or im-
performs its duties under     The executive directors' Steer-   provements in Bank results. It
powers delegated to it by the    ing Committee, an informal  is in this role that the directors
Board of Governors. As pro-   advisory body, also meets      represent the changing per-
vided in the Articles of Agree-   regularly.                 spectives of their shareholder
ment, five of the twenty-four   In addition to the meetings    governments vis-a-vis the
executive directors are ap-   and committee work, groups     Bank's role. These policy ini-
pointed by the five member    of executive directors and al-    tiatives normally reflect needs
governments having the larg-    ternate executive directors at    perceived by shareholders and
est number of shares; the rest    times make special trips to  involve a process of consensus
of the board is elected by the  borrowing countries to ob-   building, both among execu-
other member governments,     serve Bank-supported opera-    tive directors and with Bank
who form constituencies in    tions and its assistance strategy   management. Many of the
the election process every    firsthand. They meet with a    changes in Bank policy grow
two years.                    wide range of people, includ-    from initiatives by the execu-
The executive directors     ing staff of the Bank's resident   tive directors and occur gradu-
consider and decide on the    missions or field offices, gov-  ally over a period of years,
IBRD loan and IDA credit pro-  ernment officials, project man-   such as the increasing empha-
posals made by the president,    agers, NGOs and project benefi-   sis on social development is-
and they decide policy issues  ciaries, and the business     sues, capacity building in Af-
that guide the general opera-  community. In fiscal 1997,    rica, anticorruption programs,
tions of the Bank and its direc-   groups of executive directors    and postconflict assistance.
tion. The executive directors  visited East Asia (Cambodia     The executive directors
are also responsible for pre-  and China), South Asia        have increasingly encouraged
senting to the Board of Gover-   (Bangladesh and India), West-   closer linking of the operations
nors at the Annual Meetings   ern Africa (Burkina Faso,      of the Bank, IFC, and MIGA. In
an audit of accounts, an ad-  Guinea, Niger), and Europe     fiscal 1997, for example, the
ministrative budget, and an   and Central Asia (Bosnia and   board held a seminar on the
annual report on the opera-   Herzegovina and Russia).       Bank Group's existing and
tions and policies of the Bank,                              planned guarantee and risk-
as well as any other matters  Shaping policy                 mitigation products in the
that in their judgment require  The Board of Executive Di-   context of its strategic goals.
submission to the Board of    rectors' oversight responsibil-    The executive directors
Governors.                    ity covers virtually all Bank  broadly supported the out-
During fiscal 1997 the ex-  policy, so its role cannot be  lined approach to expand and
ecutive directors met eighty  clearly separated from most of   strengthen these catalytic ac-
times in formal board meet-   the Bank activities and initia-    tivities and urged management
ings and another eighty-one   tives covered in this Report.  to move forward with con-
times in seminars, informal   This oversight responsibility is   crete proposals to the board.
sessions, and as the Commit-    exercised in part through the  Similarly, at a board seminar
tee of the Whole. In addition,    process of board approval of  on a Bank Group financial sec-
most of the executive direc-  each Bank or IDA lending op-    tor framework, executive di-
tors serve on one or more of  eration and the annual budget   rectors emphasized the need
five standing committees:     process. However, the execu-    for a coordinated approach
Audit Committee, Committee   tive directors also exercise an  with other agencies, including
on Development Effective-                                    the IMF.
10 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



In a sense, the executive directors' oversight  Country assistance strategies
role seeks to ensure that Bank policies are inter-
preted and implemented correctly. The executive  The country assistance strategy (CAS) is the
directors review major policy areas in order to  central vehicle for change in the Bank. The
keep them current. For example, in fiscal 1997  executive directors in fiscal 1997 continued
the board endorsed a Bank policy to renew em-    their efforts to see poverty reduction, the Bank's
phasis on rural development as a vital element of  overriding objective, more comprehensively
the objective of reducing poverty and promoting   integrated into CASs. Although recognizing
economic growth, food security, and sustainable   considerable progress in the past few years, the
resource management.                           directors stressed that further work is needed
to build the results of poverty assessments
Strategic Compact with shareholders           into CASS.
In fiscal 1997 the executive directors unani-  In their consideration of CASS, the directors in-
mously endorsed the Strategic Compact between   creasingly emphasized selectivity in setting
the Bank and its shareholders--a plan for reform    country priorities for Bank support through
and renewal of the Bank to make it more effec-    lending and nonlending services and on the
tive in achieving its overriding objective of pov-   tradeoffs implicit in the Bank program. They
erty reduction. The Strategic Compact's objective  emphasized that CASS should discuss the Bank's
is to transform the way the Bank conducts its  partnerships in a country, where appropriate,
business by improving its products, speeding up    with the IMF, other multilateral institutions,
its processes, lowering its costs, making it more  bilateral donors, and NGOS in a strategic context
demand driven, and increasing its development    to maximize the development impact and
impact. Clear performance criteria will be set,    increase cost-effectiveness. The treatment of
against which progress will be measured. The   country risk has also been receiving more atten-
compact builds upon the strategic guiding prin-   tion in CAS discussions.
ciples laid out in the 1994 vision statement pre-  As a result of the executive directors' work,
pared in connection with the Bank's fiftieth anni-  there has been a visible refocusing on evaluating
versary. The board committees are expected to    the impact of Bank efforts and results on the
play a major role in assisting the board in dis-  ground, building on lessons from past perfor-
charging its oversight responsibilities in monitor-   mance, consulting with civil society, and
ing the compact.                               strengthening the Bank's presence in the field.
Another direct outcome of the board's efforts is
Heavily indebted poor countries                the increasing focus on the vital importance of
The process of finding a solution to the official  client ownership of the country strategy and on
debt problem of the heavily indebted poor coun-  the need to reflect adequately the client's per-
tries (HIPcs) continued in fiscal 1997. The boards   spective in the CAS.
of the Bank and the IMF endorsed a program of
action for reducing the debt burden of eligible  Development effectiveness
HIPCs to a sustainable level and established the  The Executive Board's Committee on Devel-
HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund (see box in the  opment Effectiveness deals with the issues
Overview). Other donors are also expected to  related to the effectiveness of on-the-ground
contribute to the trust fund. Preliminary country  results of Bank operations. The committee also
documents have been prepared for a number of    oversees the responses of Bank management to
countries. They form the basis for consideration    the Operations Evaluation Department's find-
of eligibility for assistance under this initiative;    ings and recommendations.
Uganda was the first country to benefit from     The committee continued to stress the need
this initiative.                               to improve self evaluation by the Bank and to
SECTION ONE THE EXECUTIVE BOARD I 1



ensure that evaluation results were routinely
and rapidly fed back into the formulation of
new directions, policies, and procedures. For ex-
ample, the committee considered Country
Assistance Reviews for Morocco, Poland, and
Zambia and reported on its deliberations to the
Executive Board prior to its consideration of the
CASs for those countries. It followed up on the
board discussion of the social development task
group report' by reviewing recommendations
and actions taken and a proposed work program
on social development. The committee also re-
viewed an update of the report on
mainstreaming gender into Bank lending. The
committee welcomed the creation of an evalua-
tion learning group, co-chaired by the Opera-
tions Evaluation Department and the Bank, and
the new quality assurance program to
strengthen the design of new projects and pro-
grams and implementation of existing ones.
Measurement and evaluation of the Bank's im-
pact remain a major challenge.
New auditors
On the recommendation of the Audit Com-
mittee, the board in fiscal 1995 decided to
rotate external auditors periodically. In fiscal
1996, procedures for obtaining bids from five
international firms were decided on. The bid-
ding process and the selection of the new audi-
tors took place in fiscal 1997.
1. World Bank. 1996. "Task Group Report: Social Develop-
ment and Results on the Ground." October. Washington, D.C.
12 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



SECTION Two                                                  MAJOR WORLD BANK
PROGRAMS, FISCAL YEAR 1997
Poverty reduction activities
Poverty reduction continues    synthesize information on        lished criteria in targeting the
to be the World Bank's first     poverty, identify key policy is-    poor.3 During fiscal 1997, $4.09
priority, and the significant    sues, and recommend a strat-     billion, or about 29 percent of
changes undertaken by the        egy for reducing poverty. Since   World Bank investment lending,
Bank in fiscal 1997 have im-     the Bank began preparing pov-   was channeled directly for pov-
portant implications for its fu-    erty assessments in fiscal 1989,   erty-targeted projects, com-
ture poverty reduction           ninety-three poverty assess-      pared with 32 percent in fiscal
agenda. These include the far-    ments, covering approximately    1996. For iDA countries, lending
reaching reforms in the orga-    90 percent of the world's poor,   for projects in the Pvi amounted
nization of regional opera-      have been completed. The         to 53 percent, compared with
tions; introduction of a new     findings of these assessments     63 percent in fiscal 1996. Of
approach to knowledge man-       constitute an important input    twenty-nine adjustment opera-
agement; and especially the      into the design of country as-    tions approved in fiscal 1997,
establishment of the Poverty     sistance strategies. cAss, which  eighteen contained specific
Reduction and Economic           are developed in consultation    poverty-reduction measures (see
Management (PREM) network.    with borrowing governments           table 2-1).
The newly constituted Poverty   and are discussed by the Board       While useful in planning the
Sector Board within PREM iS      of Executive Directors, reflect    implementation of Bank strat-
responsible for guiding the      each country's unique circum-    egy, these data on PTI lending
implementation of the Bank's    stances and priorities and         and poverty-targeted adjust-
poverty reduction strategy. It   present the Bank's program of    ment operations do not mea-
is ensuring that poverty re-     assistance in the context of     sure the impact that Bank ac-
mains at the heart of the        the country's efforts to reduce    tivities have on poor people's
Bank's operational and re-       poverty. With the first round    lives. Since the Bank places
search activities and that the   of poverty assessments coming    considerable emphasis on the
maximum possible contribu-       to completion, the Bank will     need for better information
tion is made to reducing pov-    be placing more emphasis on      on poverty in client countries,
erty in the developing world.    the cAs in monitoring the        efforts are under way to assess
In fiscal 1997 the Bank con-   implementation of its poverty    trends in poverty by encourag-
tinued to make progress in       reduction strategy.              ing nationally representative
implementing its poverty re-       Bank operations support nu-   household surveys. As a con-
duction strategy, based on en-    merous activities that help en-    servative estimate, data on
couraging broad-based            hance the economic opportu-      household incomes and
growth, human capital devel-    nities of the poor, develop
opment, and the provision of     their human capital (through     1. Thorough analysis of the Bank's
safety nets.' Through its ana-   health, education, and basic     work in reducing poverty is presented
lytical work, policy dialogue,   social services), and provide    in Poverry Reduction and the World
and advice and its project and   safety nets.2 While all of these    Bank: Progress and Challenges in the
adjustment lending, the Bank     activities combine to reduce     1990s (World Bank 1996) and in Pov-
erty Reduction and the World Bank:
supports a wide range of ef-     poverty, their impact is diffi-  Progress in Fiscal 1996 (World Bank
forts by client countries to re-    cult to measure. The impact of   forthcoming).
duce poverty. Recent analysis    poverty-targeted projects is     2. Safety nets are programs that protect
has improved country-specific    easier to measure, however.      people or households against two kinds
of adverse situations: chronic incapacity
knowledge about poverty and      The Bank tracks its lending for   to work or earn a living; or temporary
has provided the basis for a     projects in the Program of Tar-   decline in earnings capacity due to cy-
more informed dialogue and       geted Interventions (PTi) and    clical dedines in the economy or other
>-   .                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~temporary situations.
more effective policy inter-     poverty-focused adjustment        Sempag1  in s o
3. See page 112 in Surnmanes of Opera-
ventions. Poverty assessments    operations based on estab-       tions for description of criteria for m.
SECTION Two  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  13



TABLE 2-1. PROGRAM OF TARGETED INTERVENTIONS,
FISCAL YEARS 1995-97
(millions of us doUars)
1995             1996              1997
Total PTI lending                         5,436.7           5,408.1          4,090.0
As share of investment lending (%)          32                32                29
As share of all Bank lending (%)            24                25                21
Total number of projects in the PrTi         75               79                77
Total number of investment projects        208               223               203
IDA PTi lending                           2,423.2           3,246.0          1,873.5
As share of IDA investment lending (%)      54                63                53
As share of all IDA lending (%)             43                47                41
Number of IDA PTi projects                  48                51                37
NoTE: Investment lending is defined as all lending except for adjustment, debt and debt-service reduction operations, and
emergency reconstruction operations.
expenditures now exist for seventy-three coun-    used jointly to enhance understanding of pov-
tries, more than double the number (thirty-one)   erty and its reduction; and
available in 1992. And since the fiscal 1995      * plans to link the agencies' poverty-related
progress report (which drew on a total of 122   Internet Web sites.
surveys in sixty-seven countries), new results    Discussions on enlarging the group (to in-
from at least sixteen surveys have become avail-   clude the International Labour Organization,
able. But there is also a need to build a better  for example) have been held, and a proposal to
database on how Bank lending (and especially   link this collaboration with interagency efforts
its PTI lending) benefits the poor. As such data  to support the OECD/DAC initiative on "Shaping
become increasingly available, the emphasis of    the 21st Century," also under consideration,
the Bank's monitoring efforts will shift away   would further enlarge the membership.
from input and process indicators and toward
outcomes on the ground. This marked improve-   NGO participation
ment in information on poverty will form the      The high level of nongovernmental organiza-
basis of preparations for World Development Re-   tions' (NGOS) participation in Bank-supported
port in the year 2000, which is to be devoted to    development activities was maintained, with
poverty reduction.4                             47 percent of operations approved in fiscal
The Bank, the United Nations Children's       1997 involving NGO participation in some
Fund (UNICEF), and the United Nations Devel-    capacity (see Summaries of Operations and
opment Programme (UNDP) have been working       table 2-2). Figure 2-1 shows the NGO involve-
in partnership to improve poverty monitoring    ment in Bank projects by type of NGO.
methods since May 1995. Activities include:       To further NGO contributions to Bank-
* an ongoing exchange of views and sharing    supported development work at the field level,
of approaches for monitoring social outcomes of   NGO liaison staff have been appointed to sev-
development aimed at developing a core moni-    enty-two resident missions; more than half of
toring instrument;
* a joint Bank- and UNDP-Sponsored review of    4. Previously also the topic for World Development Report
how quantitative and qualitative data can be    1990: Poverty. 1990. New York: Oxford University Press.
14 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



these are full-time NGO specialists. They are     public-private partnerships to foster social and
strengthening communication and information       human development. Pilot projects are being
flows and ensuring more systematic in-country     developed in Angola, Colombia, the Philippines,
consultation and dialogue between the Bank and   Poland, and Slovenia.
indigenous NGOS.                                    Collaboration between the Bank and NGOS
Several initiatives to strengthen NGO partner-  continues to be enhanced through the NGO-
ship were undertaken in fiscal I 997. A donor-    World Bank Committee. Several important new
Bank-NGo workshop hosted by the Regional En-   initiatives were launched in the fiscal year, in-
vironmental Center in Budapest, for example,      cluding an interagency working group on NGO
included meetings between senior Bank manage-   capacity building, which was proposed by
ment and environmental NGOS to discuss opera-    Southern NGO members; a joint NGo-Bank pro-
tional experience and identify opportunities for    gram to monitor stakeholder participation in
additional partnership. And subregional work-     eight Bank projects; and NGO participation in
shops in Brazil, Ecuador, and El. Salvador        the Global Conference on Social Funds, orga-
brought together NGOS, governrnent, private sec-   nized by the Economic Development Institute
tor representatives, and senior Bank management   (EDI), which examined lessons learned from
for the first time to discuss and analyze partner-   the past ten years. A discussion paper on NGO
ship roles for the joint fight against poverty.  involvement in World Bank-financed social
The new Corporate Citizenship Program,          funds, published in December 1996,5 reviews
launched during the Annual Meetings in October    5. Malena, Carmen. 1996. "NGO Involvement in World
1996, is bringing together government leaders,    Bank-Financed Social Funds: Lessons Learned." Psp Discus-
business, and civil society to forge innovative   sion Paper Series No. 100. World Bank, Washington, D.C.
FIGURE 2-1  Types of NGOs Involved in Bank-financed Projects, Fiscal Years 1992-97
100%                            Grassroots    1 w International
Indigenous -   .-AUnclassifieda
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
68            73           11i4          lOG           122          1 12
Total number of NGO-involved projects
Note: Based on information provided in Staff Appraisal Reports (SARs).
a. NGOs that are not clearly defined by type in the SARs.
SECTION Two MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS 15



TABLE 2-2. PATTERNS IN WORLD BANK-NGO OPERATIONAL
COLLABORATION, FISCAL YEARS 1986-97
Total 1986-94      1995           1996          1997
No.     %      No.    %       No.    %      No.   %
By regiona
Africa                           694    29        58    57       53    29      49   61
EastAsia and Pacific             364      19      42    29       46    20      37   32
South Asia                       248    29        18    67       21    16       19   84
Europe and Central Asia          165      12      58    29       61    23      67   24
Latin America and the Caribbean   410    20       52    42       54    26      52   60
Middle East and North Africa     172      11      14    29       21     8       17   41
Total                           2,053    23      242    42      256    48    241   47
By sector
Agriculture                      440    34        34    74       33    88      43   81
Education                        190    24        26    54       29    52       18   56
Electric power and energy         167    13        16    25      19    21       17   18
Environment                       47    70         16    50      13    69       12  100
Finance                          104      12       16     6      17    12       14   29
Health, population and nutrition    125    64     24    75       23    57       15   60
Industry                           88     15       2      0       4    25        5   40
Mining                             15      7       2    50        8    63        2   50
Multisector                      176    11        24      8      19    37      22    5
Oil and gas                        51      6        7    14       3    33       4   -
Public sector management         126       9      20    20       27    15      20    5
Social sector                     37    68         8    88       17    82       16   69
Telecommunications                 39     -         1    -        1    -        -    -
Transportation                   230       7      22    18       24    21      27   26
Urban development                 117    21       13    38       10    70       13   54
Water supply and sanitation       101     16       11    55       9    67       13   69
Total                           2,053     23     242    42      256    48    241   47
-Zero
a. Refers to percentage of NGO-involved projects in all World Bank-approved projects in the region.
NGO contributions and identifies key issues and  remaining intact forest frontier areas of the Asia-
lessons learned from experience to date.        Pacific region, Central Africa, Latin America, and
Initiated in 1994, the Forest Market Transfor-   the Russian Federation-regions that are coming
mation Initiative (FMTI) began a second phase of   under increasing pressure from unsustainable
operations in fiscal 1997 and exemplifies the in-   and environmentally destructive forms of forest
novative work partnerships can undertake. This    exploitation. FMTI aims to develop and promote
strategic coalition of conservation NGOS, private    financial and other incentives-with support
sector forest industry leaders, researchers, devel-   from the Global Environment Facility (GEF),
opment practitioners, and financiers, including  the IFC, voluntary foundations, and other
the World Bankj6 is working to develop innova-
tive approaches to the adoption of more envi-
ronmentally friendly forest management and      6. FMTI partners include the Institute for Sustainable Technol-
marketing practices in the remaining forest     og, the International Institute for Environment and Dev-
elopment, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, the
frontiers. The FMTI is particularly concerned to  Rainforest Action Network, the Rocky Mountains Institute,
accelerate a shift in private sector behavior in the    the World Resources Institute, and the World Wildlife Fund.
16  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



sources-to help companies overcome barriers       suffering that makes investments in human
to the sustainable use of forests. Companies      development a powerful weapon in the fight
would be encouraged to begin transforming for-    against poverty.
est sector markets toward sustainable practices      In fiscal 1997 the Bank's strategy for support-
and to encourage the development of alterna-      ing its clients' efforts to develop human capital
tive fiber products. This would reduce the pres-    and social systems focused on: (i) lending and,
sures on natural forests from demands for tim-    increasingly, nonlending services to support
ber and other industrial products.                 population, health, nutrition, and education,
with a special emphasis this year on support of
Human development                                 social programs that protect the most vulner-
Investing in people-or human development        able people who might otherwise be left out of
(HD)-plays a crucial role in the Bank's overall    the growth process; and (ii) efforts to improve
strategy to reduce poverty. In conjunction with   the quality of Bank services by working more
policies that promote sustainable growth, in-     closely with clients, collaborating with partners,
vesting in people and the provision of social      and establishing a human development network
safety nets alleviate some of the most severe     to strengthen the Bank's ability to provide qual-
consequences of poverty, including ill health     ity services. Figure 2-2 gives the breakdown of
and malnutrition, while increasing people's       Bank lending to the social sectors in fiscal 1997.
chances to improve their own well-being. Evi-
dence continues to mount that investments in      Human development operations
health, nutrition, and education contribute to       By the end of fiscal 1997, cumulative Bank
individual productivity and, in the aggregate, to    lending for human development totaled $41.9
national economic growth. It is the combination    billion, making the Bank the single largest
of good economics and the reduction of human      external financier of HD programs in low- to
FIGURE 2-2 IBRD and IDA Lending for the Social Sector, FiscalYear 1997
(US$ millions)
Total end ng-$l 9,146
Social sector lending-$4,357
Education-$1,017
Health, nutrition
and population-$940
Social protecton $2,400a
a. Includes social sector loans and finance, public sector management and multisector loans with a social protection focus.
SECTION TWO  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  17



middle-income countries, with active projects     remains an important priority The Bank is
in 107 countries and 516 completed projects.      increasingly helping its clients to more closely
In fiscal 1997, disbursements to the sector in-   link population policies with reproductive
creased to $3.89 billion, a 45 percent increase   health policies, thus integrating them into pov-
over fiscal 1996.                                 erty reduction efforts and the overall develop-
Health, nutrition, and population programs      ment agenda. The Second Maternal and Child
(HNP). The Bank's activities in the HNP sector    Health and Nutrition Project in Argentina and
have grown to a cumulative value of over          the Reproductive and Child Health Project in
$12 billion, making the Bank also the single      India, both approved in fiscal 1997, illustrate
largest external financier of health programs in  this approach (see Summaries of Operations at
low- to middle-income countries.                  the end of Section Three).
The Bank's HIV/AIDS program has been an im-       Supporting better nutrition is addressed in
portant developmental priority in recent years.   ongoing Bank projects in a number of ways.
HIV/AIDS is not simply a health problem, and the    Some of the more successful interventions in-
Bank's strategy focuses on multisector programs    clude projects at the community level that em-
to accomplish the task of sustained prevention    phasize behavioral change, such as in ongoing
and care. These programs focus on HIV/AIDS pre-    projects in Tanzania and Zimbabwe; those that
vention, treatment, and care at both the country   target food-marketing programs to enable the
and regional levels. They include projects to     poor greater access to food, such as in ongoing
provide drugs for sexually transmitted diseases   projects in Brazil, Colombia, and Honduras; and
and AIDs-related infections, launch awareness     micronutrient programs, such as in Indonesia's
and condom distribution campaigns, and con-       Intensified Iodine Deficiency Control project,
duct analysis and research on the socioeconomic   approved in fiscal 1997.
impact of HIV/AIDS to find cost-effective preven-   Education. In fiscal 1997 the Bank committed
tion and care interventions. In fiscal 1997 the   $1,017 million for eighteen education loans to
Bank extended loans for HIV/AIDS to Argentina,    fifteen countries. At the end of fiscal 1997, the
Cambodia, and Sri Lanka.                          cumulative value of Bank loans for all levels of
Designing effective policies to improve the     education was $23.7 billion. Commitments for
performance of both private and government-       education loans temporarily declined from their
run health systems has bedeviled both rich and    fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1996 levels of $2,096.8
poor countries over the past decade. In recent    million and $1,705.7 million, respectively,
years, many countries have turned to sectorwide    mainly because of the increased focus on im-
reforms to improve performance of their health    proving the quality and results of the existing
systems and health, nutrition, and population     portfolio; disbursement and supervision have in-
policies. The Bank undertook a strategic shift in    creased accordingly. In some cases, such as in
its HNP lending in fiscal 1997 to support its cli-  Brazil, new commitments were delayed as the
ents as they undertook such comprehensive sec-   education portfolio underwent a comprehensive
tor reform, with loans totaling $940 million
in eleven countries. These efforts were backed    7. The sector work includes:
* Klugman, Jeni, and George Schieber. 1997. Health Care
by extensive sector work that is providing les-   Reform in Central Asia. World Bank Technical Paper No.
sons of experience from many countries.7          344. Washington, D.C.
Client focus has been strengthened through     * Goldstein, Ellen, Alexander S. Preker, Olusoji Adeyi, and
Bank participation in and cosponsorship of ma-    Gnanaraj Chellaraj. 1996. Trends in Health Status, Services
and Finance: The Transition in Central and Eastern Europe.
jor international conferences. The Conference     World Bank Technical Paper No. 341. Washington, D.C.
on Innovations in Health Care Financing, orga-    * World Bank. 1997. The Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan
nized by the Bank's health group, drew 360 par-   Health Sector Study. A World Bank Country Study. Wash-
ticipants from over seventy countries, including    ington, D.C.
more than thirty ministers of health or finance.    * World Bank. 1996. "China: Issues and Options in Health
more                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Financing." Report No. 15278-Cha.
Providing the poor with access to family
planning and other reproductive health services
18  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



review. The greater focus on portfolio perfor-   EDI is supporting the demand for knowledge,
mance through the fiscal year is reflected in a  analytical tools, and lessons from country expe-
23 percent increase in disbursements over fiscal   rience for effective pension reform. The confer-
1996.                                         ence on Pension Systems: From Crisis to Re-
Attention to girls' education continues to  form, held in Washington in November 1996,
increase among Bank clients. Among other ben-    brought together eighty policymakers from
efits, better-educated women have been shown   more than thirty countries to discuss pension
to have fewer and healthier children and to be  system design and implementation. Lessons
in better health themselves and be more likely  drawn from the conference will be published
to educate their children and participate in   and disseminated. EDI is also tailoring its activi-
their communities, through parent-teacher asso-   ties to meet the specialized needs of different
ciations, for example. Thus, there is now wide  regions; for example, it is working with the gov-
recognition that investing in girls' education is  ernment of Mexico to help implement the re-
one of the best investments a society can make  cently endorsed pension legislation. EDI and the
in its own development.                        government of Mexico will launch a virtual net-
Socialprotection (se). In fiscal 1.997 the Bank  work of pension specialists in the Latin Ameri-
formed a social protection group, which addresses    can region later this year.
two priorities: (i) to enhance human capital
productivity by improving the operation of la-    Improving the quality of HD operations
bor markets, and (ii) to develop mechanisms      In many countries, such as Botswana, Chile,
and institutions to protect the most vulnerable    and the Republic of Korea, where economic
people, including the elderly, disabled, and   growth has gone hand in hand with investment
women. Social protection activities complement   in people, significant reductions in poverty have
other Bank efforts in the area of social develop-    been achieved. In other countries, relatively low
ment, and interventions help protect the poor  economic growth and under investment in
by addressing labor market reform, including   people, combined with high population growth,
unemployment insurance and vocational train-   have led to an increase in the number of people
ing, pension reform, and social assistance,    who live on a dollar or less a day. When current
including social funds.                        growth rates are insufficient, sound investment
Lending for social protection has grown ex-  in people is necessary both to reduce human
plosively. In fiscal 1997, twenty-three social  suffering and to lay the foundation for future
protection loans were approved, totaling $2.4  improvement in living conditions.
billion; twenty-three loans totaling $1.4 billion  Two new instruments are helping to
in fiscal 1996; and ten totaling $0.5 billion in  strengthen the Bank's strategic focus and devel-
fiscal 1995. By the end of fiscal 1997, cumula-  opment effectiveness; they are sector strategy
tive lending for social protection totaled $5.3  papers and knowledge management.
billion. More than half of lending for social pro-  Sector strategy papers. While the CAS papers
tection programs in fiscal 1997 was for adjust-  are used to elevate policy dialogue and increase
ment loans to Mexico and Russia and a first-   development effectiveness in general, they will
time pension adjustment loan to Argentina.     now be complemented by sector strategy papers
Substantial new commitments supported labor    (ssp), which provide a cross-cutting global per-
market reforms, including support for reviewing  spective on Bankwide and regional priorities in
labor code revision, employment creation in pub-    sector development. The first ssp, on the health,
lic schemes, and retraining unemployed or poten-    nutrition, and population subsectors, was pre-
tially redundant workers, especially in transition  sented to the Executive Board's Committee
economies. Pension reform loans were extended  on Development Effectiveness in fiscal 1997.
to Argentina, Latvia, Mexico, Peru, and Russia,  Others, on education and social protection,
and social assistance loans to Argentina, Bulgaria,    are planned for fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1999,
Jamaica, Lithuania, Romania, and Ukraine.     respectively.
SECTION Two  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  19



Knowledge management. Knowledge manage-
ment systems (Kls) are of increasing impor-
tance in retooling the Bank to better meet its
clients' needs. In fiscal 1997 the Bank's educa-
tion group developed a user-friendly KMs to pro-
vide staff with ready access to a variety of infor-
mation resources, including: (io "help desks";
(iip on-line databases of policy papers, best prac-
tice papers, electronic forums, terms-of-refer-
ence, profiles of staff and consultants, and links
to external resources; (iii) a statistical database
containing internal Bank data; (ivt a clearing-
house function for data available from other
agencies; and (v) a knowledge base on the eco-
nomic aspects of human development, includ-
ing good practice of economic analyses in
project development. Parts of this system such     Evidence continues to mount
as the new Early Child Development Web site'       that investments in health,
are available to clients.                          nutrition, and education
Within the Kms, the Education and Health         contribute to individual
neededmodelsof prjectiplemetationplans prodctiit and ntieponalt
Advisory Services were launched in fiscal 1997     eprcicanc oroeth. n
to provide operational staff with customized in-    ectorow the
formation, advice on consultants and partners,
and direct access to best practices from inside    committees trained in organizing, managing,
and outside the Bank. TheKMS is only available     and monitoring early childhood services, with
externally on a limited basis at present but will  NGOs helping to oversee the communities' man-
eventually be expanded to provide more access      agement of childcare centers. In Indonesia, two
for external users.                                loans to support basic education were provided
KMS is already filling a knowledge gap; for ex-  directly to the provinces of Central Indonesia
ample, when the Nepal Resident Mission             and Sumatra to ensure local involvement in all
needed models of project implementation plans    phases of the project.
to help its client in the Ministry of Education,     Nonlending services. Greater emphasis has
the Education Advisory Service provided best-      been placed on the importance of economic and
practice examples from similar projects in         sector work (Esw) to raise the quality of the
Burkina Faso, Croatia, Ghana, and Turkey. It also    Bank's work in human development. Where
made connections with officials in Turkey and      possible, ESW iS carried out jointly with country
with the Bank'S Hdoffice in Hungary to provide    representatives. The Vietnam education sector
the Nepalese government with expert advice         financing study, for example, was prepared by a
quickly on project implementation.                 team co-managed by the government of Viet-
nam and the World Bank. The study, which
Improving client focus                             places education and training needs within the
Participation. A number of innovative pro-       larger political and macroeconomic framework
grams are focusing on greater client involve-      and gives a comprehensive review of its effi-
ment and participation in an effort to increase    ciency, equity, and future direction, resulted in a
effectiveness and ownership. The Kenya Early       frank assessment of Vietnam's economy. The
Childhood Development project, for example,        government is considering the recommendations,
approved in fiscal 1997, is training 15,000 pre-   including those to raise teachers' salaries and in-
school teachers and 5,000 community represen-    crease school hours.
tatives to run and monitor enriched child care
programs. Centers will be managed by parent        8. http://wwwworldbank.org/children/
20 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



A review of China's pension system identified   depend heavily on the ability of governments
two problems: state-owned enterprises are bur-    or agencies to communicate effectively with
dening the system, and the population is rapidly   target groups. Contraceptives, vaccines, and
aging. The Bank and the government identified    micronutrient supplements can only work if
factors contributing to the problems and set out   people choose to use them. Many other aspects
recommendations for solutions.                 of behavior, including sexual activity, use of
Sharing lessons of experience among coun-   harmful drugs, hygiene practices, and views on
tries is proving useful to policymakers in Cen-  childrearing have important implications for
tral Asia, the World Bank, donor organizations,    overall health outcomes. The toolkit for com-
and other international agencies as they develop    munication for behavioral change9 was created
cost-effective health reform policies. A survey  in fiscal 1997 to provide state-of-the-art
of health reform in Central Asia produced data    advice on best practices in this complex and
on levels and trends in health status, delivery of   important process.
services, and financing that were used to de-
velop a health reform policy agenda based on  Establishing the Human Development
the experiences of various countries undergoing    network
similar economic transition.                     Established in fiscal 1997, the Huiman
Partnerships. Partnerships are especially im-  Development Network was the first network
portant to increasing the efficiency and effec-  in the Bank's new structure. It brings together
tiveness of human development programs, and    all staff working on health, nutrition, popula-
increased efforts were made in fiscal 1997 to  tion, education, training, and social protection.
improve partnerships with other organizations  Headed by the HD council and organized in
and to share knowledge and experience. The    three sector boards-health, nutrition, and
Bank enjoys a close relationship with the Inter-    population; education; and social protection-
national Labour Organization (ILO), and the two   the HD network is responsible for five major
institutions benefit from mutual cooperation.  activities: strategy; knowledge; staff develop-
Two joint research projects were in progress in  ment; client responsiveness and external part-
fiscal 1997, and in addition to regular informal    ners; and quality assurance.
discussions between staff, a high-level team of  The HD network's impact is already evident.
ILO officials visited the Bank and reached initial   Its HD Training Week, attended by nearly 100
agreement on cooperation in a number of new   external organizations and about 600 HD staff,
areas. These include increased collaboration and   included presentations on state-of-the-art prac-
consultations on harmful child labor practices  tice in each of the three subsectors as well as
and labor standards. Delegations from the Inter-   high-level keynote speakers, exhibitions, hands-
national Confederation of Free Trade Unions    on demonstrations, videos, and advisory services.
and the World Confederation of Labor also held   Prior to this event, over sixty resident mission
talks with senior Bank staff to discuss activities    staff participated in a week-long pilot training
for future cooperation. And the Bank continues    program especially designed for them.
to work closely with United Nations agencies
such as UNESCO, UNDP, and UNICEF, as well as WHO,   Gender
on health and education programs.               The Bank's commitment to promoting gender
Communications. A vital, but often over-    equality and implementing the recommenda-
looked component in the complex web of hu-     tions set out in the United Nations Conference
man development is the role of communica-      on Women, held in Beijing in September 1995,
tions. Many of the most cost-effective public  continued in fiscal 1997. Gender analysis and
health interventions-for example, those aimed    policy are strategically linked to economic and
at promoting healthier lifestyles, safer reproduc-
tive health, and preventing communicable dis-    9. Verzosa, Cecilia Cabanero. 1996. "Communications for
eases-require behavioral changes that in turn  Behavior Change: A Toolkit for Task Managers." Human
Development Department. World Bank, Washington, D.C.
SECTION Two MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  21



policy activities through integration into coun-     will also be members of water-user committees
try assistance strategies-in fiscal 1997, for        responsible for project design, planning, and
example, the Ghana and Uganda CASs included          management at the community level.
gender analysis-economic and sector work, and          Incorporating gender issues into Bank work is
poverty assessments. Gender issues are system-       being facilitated through research, preparation
atically addressed in project design and prepara-    of toolkits such as the toolkit on gender in agri-
tion, especially in those that traditionally have    culture'° and the toolkit on gender in water and
addressed gender issues such as education,          sanitation.11 Workshops, such as the Asia Gen-
health, population, nutrition, and rural develop-    der Symposium held in November 1996, are
ment sectors. But more attention is also being       also playing a role, as well as programs such as
given to gender issues in sectors such as trans-    EDI'S grassroots management training program
port and energy.                                     (see box 2-1). A gender "home page" on the
Nepal's rural water supply and sanitation         Bank's internal Web site is helping to integrate
project is exemplary. It will deliver health and     gender knowledge into the Bank's knowledge-
hygiene benefits to rural people and improve         management system; it will be made available
women's incomes as they are able to spend            on the external Web site in fiscal 1998.
time-formerly spent carrying water-in more             The Gender Consultative Group, comprising
productive ways. The project is providing            fourteen leading gender specialists from all re-
nonformal education to increase women's lit-         gions and representing a range of organizations
eracy to help them better use that time. Women    and professional backgrounds, held its second
annual meeting with the Bank in May 1997.
The group met with the president, senior man-
BOX 2-1.  WORKING AT THE                          agement, and regional staff to present the per-
GRASS ROOTS                                       spectives of different sectors of civil society on
priority gender issues that the Bank should ad-
The poor, and especially women, depend to       dress and to provide feedback on the imple-
an ever increasing extent on the infonnal sector  mentation of the Bank's gender-related policies
and microenterprises as a source of jobs and in-  and programs. A second annual progress report
come. Yet the constraints they face are tremen-   on the implementation of the Bank's gender
dous: illiteracy and lack of basic education; little  policies was published in June 1997.
or no access to infonnation, credit, markets, and
other business support; inadequate management     Social development
skills; as well as hostile legal, policy, and institu-
tional environments.                                While considerable progress was made over
One program helping to overcome these ob-       the past decade to incorporate the environmen-
stacles, EDI'S program of grassroots management   tal dimensions of development into Bank work,
training (GMT), is providing very poor, often illiter-  less was done to incorporate the social dimen-
ate women in Sub-Saharan Afnca, South Asia,       sions. This began to change in the early 1990s
and North Africa with management skills rel-      with the introduction of poverty assessments
evant to their needs. Through EDI's program, sev-  and with the development of methods and
eral hundred trainers and enterprise support     tools both to understand the needs of poor
teams working with NGOs, local training institutes,  people and to spread the benefits of develop-
and government extension workers have been        ment more broadly. The Bank has increasingly
taught to deliver participatory management train-  used beneficiary assessment and stakeholder
ing In fiscal 1997, GMT was institutionalized and
mainstreamed with awareness-raising seminars
held in Morocco and Tunisia; seminars held in     10. Fong, Monica S., and Anjana Bhushan. 1996. "Toolkit on
Burkina Faso for GMT trainers from West African   Gender in Agriculture. Gender Toolkit No. I." Poverty and
countries and in Morocco for those from the       Social Policy Department. World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Maghreb; training manuals were prepared and        1 . Fong, Monica S., Wendy Wakeman, and Anjana Bhushan.
1996. "Toolkit on Gender in Water and Sanitation. Gender
distributed; and strategic workshops were held.   Toolkit No. 2." Poverty and Social Policy Department. World
Bank, Washington, D.C.
22  THE WORLD BANKANNUALREPORT1997



Young women in
Burkina Faso learn
bastc accounting skills.
EDI's grassroots
management training
i sprepares women to
select more viable
projects, prepare
business plans, increase
savings and profits,
and improve their
creditworthiness.
participation, for example to improve project      * that in a world of increasing specialization
design and to make project implementation more  and interdependence, new kinds of relation-
inclusive. And social and beneficiary assessments   ships, organizations, and institutions will be
were introduced to gather social data and help  needed if people are to benefit and if growth
countries set program priorities as well as to pro-   and development are to be sustained;
vide opportunities for the poor to voice concerns  - that governments have a crucial role in
and make proposals. Though not mandatory,       shaping social policy and providing an enabling
about seventy social assessments have been com-   environment for poverty reduction and socially
pleted by Bank staff and borrowers during the    sustainable development; but
past two years. Recognizing shortfalls, however,   * that governments cannot act alone-pro-
the Task Group on Social Development was cre-   ductive partnerships between the state, the mar-
ated in fiscal 1997 to examine how social con-  ket, and society are needed to foster socially sus-
cerns could be more effectively absorbed into the  tainable development.
development paradigm and be used for               The task group recommended that social
policymaking purposes. The task force recognized:   policies and procedures be better integrated
* that people are the reason for development    and more comprehensive; that social analysis
and that how they are affectecL is the measure by   and participatory approaches be mainstreamed
which development initiatives should be judged;   into project and analytical work; and that
* that people are the means of development-   Bank procedures be used more flexibly to
if they do not understand or are not committed    accommodate client diversity and innovation.
to development initiatives, development initia-  The Social Learning Group was established
tives will not succeed, no matter how well they  and is following up on recommendations and
are planned;                                    monitoring implementation.
* that fair and equitable development con-      Considerable progress has been made since
tributes to human welfare and to the social     the task group reported: regional offices have
cohesion and social stability that underpin     prepared and submitted Social Action Plans that
sustainable development;
SECTION Two  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  23



build upon, and in some cases incorporate, on-    FIGURE 2-3
going work on poverty, participation, social as-  World Bank Lending for Environment
sessment and gender; proposals have been made    Projects, Fiscal Years 1986-97
to identify key social issues by country and ad-  (US$ billions)
dress them through CAS and analytical work,
and work programs include strategies to im-        1986 0.03
prove performance in areas such as NGO coordi-
nation and in new areas such as postconflict
reconstruction.                                    1988     61
An outgrowth of the report was the forma-
tion of the Social Development Family, which        1989ta    85
includes staff working on participation and
with NGOS, social policy staff, and social scien-
tists from across the Bank. The Social Develop-    1991 a  2.84
ment Board has been established. Its work
program includes measuring progress through         19921      4.39
monitorable benchmarks. Resources for social
development initiatives have been made avail-      1993
able under the Strategic Compact, and a            1994a                     8.93
postconflict unit was established on July 1,
1997.                                              1 995 
Work on social development is at an early
stage, about the same stage as work on environ-    1996                            1 1 .44
mentally sustainable development was a decade      1997                              1 1 .60
ago. But the high level of commitment is ex-
pected to lead to rapid development.              Note: Environmental projects approved since FY86 and that
The Social Development Family is working        are currently active.
closely with other groups in the Bank to pro-
mote community-based participation; to link       people live on less than two dollars a day, often
social and environmental assessments more         without adequate water or sanitation, plagued
closely; to mainstream activities; and to under-  by pollution and lack of food.
take joint research. And partnerships on social     In 1992 the Bank's work in ESD was only a
issues are being developed with other donors      small part of its lending portfolio. Now, in rec-
such as international agencies, including the     ognition of continuing problems, the Bank has
Inter-American Development Bank and the           an extensive commitment to environmental
Asian Development Bank, and groups such as        sustainability with a portfolio that includes in-
the Social Development Adviser Network.12         vestment programs to reduce pollution, protect
ecosystems, and build capacity for environmen-
Environmentally sustainable development           tal management (see figure 2-3).
Advancing sustainable development                 Strengthening the environmental agenda
The 1992 United Nations Conference on the         The Bank's fiscal 1997 environmental agenda
Environment and Development (the "Earth           focused on building a more strategic and inte-
Summit") in Rio de Janeiro put environmen-        grated approach to ensuring that environmental
tally sustainable development (ESD) at the fore-
front of global concerns. Today, five years be-   12. Formed in 1992, it is an informal group of sociologists and
yond Rio, a great deal still needs to be done to  sociocultural anthrnpmlto ministtrles The network's goal
make economic development sustainable. The        is to improve the capacity of development organizations
loss of forests, wetlands, and other natural habi-    (including multilateral and bilateral agencies and NGOS) to
tats has not slowed enough. And some 3 billion    reflect social and cultural dimensions in their programs.
24  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



sustainability is at the core of economic develop-    lending underwent full EA, including public con-
ment. The main prongs of the strategy included:  sultations, and a further eighty-two projects to-
* Building capacity for environmental manage-    taling about $6.1 billion in Bank lending under-
ment. At the end of fiscal 1997 the Bank was   went some measure of EA appropriate to their
helping seventy countries to strengthen their  potential environmental impact.
environmental management capacity. The fiscal    The Bank has extended the process to include
year witnessed support for innovative projects  sectoral environmental assessments, such as an
such as the regional Lake Victoria environment    EA of the irrigation sector in Kazakhstan and of
project in Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, the So-   the power sectors in Nepal and Vietnam; and
lar Home System project in Indonesia, and      regional EAs, including one for the Aral Sea ba-
India's Ecodevelopment project. The Bank sup-    sin and one for flood protection in Argentina.
ported natural resource management in forested    Analysis of the environmental implications of
areas in Argentina, Haiti, and Mexico and gen-  policies, institutions, and development plans for
eral environmental management in India, Mada-   investments in agriculture, energy, and transport
gascar, and Sri Lanka. It also helped these and  provided an array of options to guide sustain-
other developing countries move toward more    able development.
flexible and cost-effective environmental poli-  The Bank's Economic Development Institute
cies and to develop innovative market-based in-    environment program helps to mainstream en-
struments to promote environmental             vironmental issues into all aspects of develop-
sustainability. Market-based instruments such as   ment by providing training for policymakers
effluent charges, deposit-refund schemes, per-  on biodiversity, climate change, coastal and ma-
formance bonds, and tradable permits are all be-   rine environment, urban and industrial pollu-
ing utilized by Bank clients. Countries as diverse   tion, resettlement and rehabilitation, and envi-
as China, the Czech Republic, and Mexico are   ronmental aspects of sustainable agricultural
basing their policies and investment plans on  development. EDI initiated a multistakeholder,
careful cost-effectiveness analysis with Bank  multiseminar approach in fiscal 1997 through
support. And client countries are creating more    its Mainstreaming Environmental Sustainability
attractive business climates for private invest-  program. This comprehensive approach facili-
ment in environmental projects as well as re-  tated awareness and policy dialogue among a
ducing subsidies and pricing distortions to free  wide audience-including ministers, policy-
up resources for investment. With the IFC and  makers, parliamentarians, journalists, and NGOs.
the GEF, the Bank launched private sector ven-  Programs on economic globalization and sus-
ture capital funds for investments in biodiv-  tainable development were implemented in
ersity and renewable energy.                   southern Africa, Central America, and South
* Mainstreaming environmental sustainability  Asia in fiscal 1997.
into development programs. Over and above its    * Investing in partnerships that work. Recog-
$11.6 billion portfolio of programs targeted at  nizing that all groups in society have a role to
protecting and improving the environment, the    play in promoting sustainable development and
Bank also requires that all Bank-financed pro-  that its own work can only be effective in part-
grams practice environmental sustainability.   nership with other key stakeholders, the Bank
One key means of achieving this is the environ-    heightened its efforts to build and strengthen
mental assessment (EA) process.                partnerships in fiscal 1997. Its formal partners
A fiscal 1997 review'3 shows that, although  now include multilateral financial institutions;
there are still weaknesses, the benefits of EA are    United Nations agencies; bilateral donors; NGOS,
considerable: promoting investment in activities   such as the World Conservation Union (IUCN),
that are more sensitive to ecological concerns
than those financed a decade ago. In fiscal 1997,
eighteen projects totaling $2.9 billion of Bank  13. World Bank. 1996. "The Impact of Environmental As-
sessment: The World Bank's Experience." Land, Water and
Natural Habitats Division, Environment Department.
Washington, D.C.
SECTION Two MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  25



The Bank report on
rural development
sets out the critical
challenges that must
be met if 70 percent
of the developing
world's poor who
live in rural areas
are to rise above
poverty rand achieve
food security.
the Earth Council, the World Resources Insti-        planning and environmental assessment mitiga
tute, and the World Wildlife Fund (WWFn; aca-        tion of harmful effects of development projects,
demic institutions and private organizations         and new targets for biodiversity conservation in-
such as the World Business Council for Sustain-    vestments have resulted from this work.
able Development. In partnership with the pri-         - Building and sharng knowledge. Each year
vate sector, the Bank is creating a series of mar-   brings new understanding about what makes
ket transformation initiatives that bring            development sustainable. The Bank and its cli-
together coalitions of private companies, NGOS,      ents continue to learn from innovative pilot ac-
and development financiers to fund private sec-    tivities so that good practices can be replicated
tor investments for sustainable development in       and mistakes avoided. The Bank is filling knowl-
a number of sectors, including forest, marine,       edge gaps and creating a knowledge-manage-
photovoltaics, and hydrocarbon refrigerants.         ment system for development professionals us-
The WWF and the World Bank have identified        ing new information technologies and working
priority areas and strategies for biodiversity       with partners. The technical networks, estab-
conservation throughout Latin America and the        ished in fscal 1997, include a network of some
Caribbean. This effort is complemented by an-        300 environmentally and socially sustainable
other joint effort of the Bank, Agriconsulting,      development professionals that is facilitating
and the World Conservation Monitoring Center    the generation and dissemination of knowledge.
to pinpoint critical natural habitats in Argen-      Environmental communication was strength-
tina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Improved         ened through broader dissemination of the two-
year-old journal for practitioners, Environment
26 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Matters;`4 while joint publication of best prac-    nomic growth and reduce poverty in rural areas
tice and research with partners resulted in the     where 75 percent of the world's poor live. It
"Wetlands in Asia" paper,5 along with three ma-    will reduce urban poverty by bringing down the
jor papers prepared for the fifth anniversary of    price of food in cities. It will also contribute to
the Rio Earth Summit: "Advancing Sustainable        increasing national and global food supplies-an
Development",16 "Expanding the Measure of           essential goal in view of the expected increase
Wealth,"'7 and "Five Years After Rio: Innovations    in the world's population to over 8 billion by
in Environmental Policy."'8                         2025.
The new strategy focuses on four areas of
The Global Environment Facility and the             action:
Montreal Protocol                                     * improving rural strategy formulation and
The Bank shares responsibility for imple-         consensus building;
menting GEF activities with UNEP and UNDP.            * improving project quality;
The Bank is currently responsible for a GEF         * increasing international awareness of the
work program of about $1 billion, covering four    importance of rural development; and
focal areas: biodiversity, climate change, ozone-     * building staff capacity.
depleting substances phaseout, and interna-           Actions were taken in all four areas in fiscal
tional waters. At the end of fiscal 1997, World     1997, with rural strategies being incorporated
Bank management had approved sixty-nine             into country assistance strategies for Mexico
projects in over fifty countries, totaling GEF      and Morocco and the Country Economic
grant commitments of $675 million and lever-        Memorandum for India; reviews of the irriga-
aging an additional $2,848 million. The Bank        tion and forestry portfolios completed and oth-
adopted important changes to streamline its GEF    ers planned; Bank participation in several
implementation processes and improve effec-         high-profile activities for increasing awareness;
tiveness. As a result, project processing time un-    and a core staff training program developed.
der the Bank's control is expected to halve.          During fiscal 1997, two events spotlighted ru-
As trustee of the GEF Trust Fund, the World      ral issues. The first, the Bank's Environmentally
Bank, at the request of the GEF Council and in      Sustainable Development Conference-called
cooperation with the cEo/chairman of the facil-    Rural Well-Being: From Vision to Action, at-
ity, initiated the second GEF replenishment pro-    tended by delegates from NGOS, national govern-
cess in May 1997.                                   ments, academia, and foundations, as well as the
The Bank recently completed its fifth year as     heads of the African Development Bank, the
an implementing agency of the Multilateral          International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
Fund of the Montreal Protocol. (MFMP). During       ment, and the World Bank-resulted in a shared
the past year, elimination of the use of ozone-
th  past year, elimination of the use of ozone-  14. World Bank. 1996-97. Environment Matters at the World
depleting substances (ODS) amounted to over         Bank. World Bank Environment Department, Washington,
9,000 tons, about 5 percent of total ODS usage      D.C. (Produced three times a year, with an annual environ-
by all developing countries eligible for assis-     ment review each fall.)
tance from the MFMP. This phaseout represents       15. Wetlands International-Asia Pacific and the World
Bank. 1996. "Wetlands in Asia." Land, Water, and Natural
75 percent of the total phased out by all MFMP      Habitats Division, Environment Department. World Bank,
agencies and demonstrates the MFMP'S tangible       Washington, D.C
and measurable global environmental protec-         16. World Bank. 1997. "Advancing Sustainable Development:
tion achievements.                                  The World Bank and Agenda 21 Since the Rio Earth Sum-
mit." Environment Department, Washington, D.C.
Revitalizing rural development and                  17. World Bank. 1997. "Expanding the Measure of Wealth:
sustainable agriculture                             Indicators of Environmentally Sustainable Development."
Environment Department, Washington, D.C.
In fiscal 1997 the Executive Board endorsed       18. World Bank. 1997. "Five Years After Rio: Innovations
the sector strategy paper, "Rural Development:      in Environmental Policy." Environment Department,
From Vision to Action."'II The renewed focus        Washington, D.C.
19. World Bank. 1997. Rural Development: From Vision to Ac-
on rural development is intended to foster eco-     tion. ESD Studies and Monographs Series. Washington, D.C.
SECTION TwO  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  27



BOX 2-2.  PARTNERSHIPS IMPROVE                       * Significant progress has been achieved in
PEARL MILLET                                       land reform. Pilot projects are ongoing in Brazil
and Colombia. In Brazil the pilot was expanded
The 1996 King Baudouin Award of CGIAR            to five states, with approval of the first loan
was awarded to the International Crops Research    exclusively for land reform since the Bank's
Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (IcRIsAT), a   support to Kenya some thirty years ago. Addi-
CGIAR center in India, for the development of     tional loans are under preparation in Colombia
disease-resistant, yield-increasing pearl millet in  and Guatemala.
collaboration with partners.                         * An innovative agricultural research opera-
Pearl millet is farmed for grain and fodder in
dryland areas of Asia and Africa by the very      tion in Brazil is enhancing private sector in-
poor. Its growth is constrained by diseases and by  volvement and supporting a competitive grant
drought, heat, and low soilfertility.              system for allocating public research resources.
ICRISAT's research has focused on developing hy-   o The report "Rural Finance: Issues, Design,
brids with high grain yield and resistance to      Best Practices"20 was released. It sets out a new
downy mildew, ergot, and smut diseases; breeding   approach for providing credit to farmers and ru-
attributes offarmers' varieties into improved ma-  ral entrepreneurs, moving away from nurturing
terials for drought tolerance; and searching for   subsidized government institutions toward de-
ways with partners to enrich poor soils with bio-  veloping institutional capacity for a broader
mass from crop residues and animal dung            range of rural financial institutions, including
Interdisciplinary efforts and partnerships have  ,
characterized iciusAT's research. Farmer-managed  those offerig microfinance.
trials are being undertaken to understand farmers'  Consultative Group for Inteational
preferences better The annual returns to pearl millet  Agricultural Research (CGIAR).
farmers from the cultivated varieties that ICRISAT
and its partners have developed are estimated at     Central to agricultural development is agri-
$54 million.                                       cultural research. CGIAR is the leader in interna-
tional research aimed at promoting sustainable
agriculture for food security in developing
vision for revitalizing rural development and       countries. A global endeavor of cooperation and
the actions needed to achieve it. Second was the    goodwill, CGIAR celebrated twenty-five years of
United Nations' Food and Agricultural Organ-        effort and achievement this year.
ization's World Food Summit in which the Bank          Pakistan, South Africa, and Syria joined CGIAR,
participated. The summit's broad plan of action     bringing to fifty-three the number of develop-
addresses issues fundamental to the Bank's assis-   ing and developed countries, foundations, and
tance strategy that go beyond agricultural and      international and regional organizations, includ-
rural development to stress the need for educa-    ing the World Bank, that collectively support
tion-especially for girls; measures to improve      the work of sixteen international research
environmental sustainability; and decentraliza-     centers.
tion and participation.                                The Global Forum on Agricultural Research
Several other important activities were under-   was convened during CGIAR's International
taken during fiscal 1997:                            Centers Week in October 1996 to broaden part-
* Implementation of the Focus Program Ini-        nerships among national agricultural research
tiative began in several countries. Through a       systems, regional organizations, research institu-
combination of political will and rigorous appli-   tions, NGOS, universities, and the private sector.
cation of best practices, the program will show     The Declaration and Plan of Action for Global
that it is possible to achieve significant regional  Partnership in Agricultural Research, adopted
and global impacts on food security and poverty    by the Global Forum, was tabled at the World
reduction through a variety of activities, includ-
ing rural strategy formulation, increased lending,    20. Yaron, Jacob, McDonald Benjamin, and Gerda Piprek.
and poralc  'ade.                                    Forthcoming. Rural Finance: Issues, Design, Best Practices.
and policy advice.                                   ESD Studies and Monographs Series No. 14. Washington,
D.C.: World Bank.
28  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Food Summit. Global Forum participants com-      * Bank partial risk and partial credit guarantees;
mitted themselves to join in partnership to ad-  * IFc equity financing in developing-country
dress common concerns vigorously, thereby      companies, and loans for, and equity and quasi-
strengthening the capacity of the agricultural  equity investments in, private ventures-these
research community to help combat poverty,     instruments are increasingly used in conjunction
hunger, environmental degradation, and ineq-   with Bank operations. IFC loans, lines of credit
uity in developing countries.                  and equity investments totaled $8,118 million
A comprehensive review of priorities and    in fiscal 1997;
strategies that defined the long-term directions  * MIGA's guarantee program, which covers
of CGIAR research was completed, and medium-    new foreign private equity and debt invest-
term planning for 1998-2000 was initiated in   ments in developing countries against major
fiscal 1997. Emphasis was placed on poverty al-   political risks, and its investment marketing ser-
leviation, environmental protection, and food  vices, which provide information dissemination
security, with particular focus on promoting op-   and technical assistance to developing member
portunities for the poor, especially rural women.   governments on means to better attract foreign
The research agenda for 1997 was approved,     investment. In fiscal 1997, MIGA issued a record
with a projected financing plan of $325 million,   seventy guarantee contracts for $614 million in
up from $300 million in 1996. Areas identified    issued coverage, facilitating an estimated $4.7
for CGIAR engagement in Central and Eastern    billion in foreign investment in twenty-five
Europe and Central Asia were endorsed, adding    developing countries.
a new region to the CGIAR'S mandate. A review    * The Foreign Investment Advisory Service's
of the CGIAR system began in fiscal 1997.      (FIAS) freestanding technical assistance activities.
Greater efforts to coordinate the World
Finance, private sector, and infrastructure    Bank Group's support of private sector develop-
development                                    ment were made in fiscal 1997. The main em-
Promoting private sector development,        phasis was to enhance the group's catalytic
sound financial systems, and infrastructure   role in promoting private sector activities;
development are important prongs in the Bank's   encourage greater coordination at the policy,
overall strategy to promote sustainable growth,    country, sector, and project levels; and improve
reduce poverty, and integrate countries into the    outreach and partnerships with the interna-
global economy.                                tional business community.
Two projects in the West Bank and Gaza in-
cluded activities that reached across the Bank
Increasingly, private sector solutions can meet   Group: (i) a technical assistance project for de-
development problems in virtually every area-    veloping the legal and regulatory environment
from large-scale industry to small enterprises,  conducive to private sector development-the
environmental protection, and even the social  Bank and IFC worked together to strengthen the
sectors, which have traditionally been the pre-  financial sector's ability to deliver credit, espe-
serve of public sector investment. The public  cially to small enterprises; and (ii) financing for
sector has an important role in setting legal and    a guarantee fund to provide political risk insur-
institutional environments that allow the pri-  ance for private investors in the West Bank and
vate sector to flourish and encourage invest-  Gaza. The fund is managed by MIGA.
ment in sectors that improve the quality of life.  In fiscal 1997 the World Bank approved loans
The Bank Group supports private sector       and credits for forty-three projects totaling $3.7
development with a number of products:         billion in sectors with the most potential for
* Bank assistance to create an enabling envi-    private sector involvement-power, oil and gas,
ronment for private investment through techni-   industry and mining, and the financial sector. In
cal assistance and capacity building in regula-  addition, many of the fifty-four projects, total-
tory work and policy reform and through        ing $5.2 billion, for transport, urban develop-
innovative financing arrangements;             ment, and water supply and sanitation approved
SECTION Two MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  29



in fiscal 1997 have significant private sector de-    outlined investment opportunities to more than
velopment impact and are expected to leverage    500 representatives of international mining
substantial private flows (see figure 2-4). Many  companies.
of these projects support policy changes that      While the private sector has taken over most
will facilitate the commercialization of state and    of the direct investment in telephone compa-
municipal functions such as water companies      nies in Bank client countries, the Bank plays an
and mines.                                       important role in telecommunications policy
The Bank supports energy development when    and in promoting the use of information tech-
countries are taking steps to involve the private    nology for development purposes. An example
sector more actively. In Africa, for example,    of the increasing volume of nonlending services
Bank assistance is helping countries to under-   provided by the Bank is in telecommunications
take comprehensive reform of the power sector,   reform, where the Bank is providing support to
including privatizing and bringing in private in-    some forty countries as they prepare state
vestors and decentralizing the provision of rural    companies for commercialization, sell assets to
energy. The Bank is also providing technical as-    the private sector, and prepare distribution
sistance to help southern African countries de-  strategies.
velop a power pool for regional interconnection.   To help countries develop strategies to en-
With Bank support, Ukraine is restructuring    hance their economic competitiveness, the Bank
its coal industry by closing unproductive mines,    has mounted a program to share knowledge and
improving management, and more vigorously        technical assistance with client countries. In
introducing the private sector into the industry.    northeast Brazil, for example, nine states par-
The Bank provided extensive financial, techni-    ticipated in a Bank-supported workshop to
cal, and legal assistance to Zambia in support of   identify how to remove local constraints to
the largest mining privatization in history. The  firm-level competitiveness. The participants,
process is almost complete; the state company    from government and the private sector, fo-
has been broken up into eight entities, and the  cused on business prospects in tourism, fruit-
bidding process is under way. To help the Mon-    based agriculture and agroindustry, and grains.
golian government privatize the mining sector,   The resulting action program is changing policy
the Bank and FIAS helped write a new mining      to make the province more competitive. Similar
code in a record six months. And to stimulate    assistance is being provided to Malaysia on a
interest in Africa's mining sector, MIGA organized   fee-for-service basis. In partnership with inter-
its fourth annual African Mining Investment      national training institutions, EDI and the Bank
and Business Opportunities Symposium. Repre-    held a competition policy training course in
sentatives from twenty-eight African countries   New Delhi. Ministry officials, private sector
FIGURE 2-4 IBRD and IDA Lending to Sectors with Potential for Private Sector
Involvement, Fiscal Year 1997
(US$ millions)
Oil and gas, coal, 4 projects, $ 136
ndustry and min ng, 7 projects, $51 7
Transportation, 28 projects, $3,691
*n-  Urban deve opment, 13 prorects, $808
Electric power and other energy                  *       Water supply and sanitation, 13 projecTs, $683
17 projects, $1,889
Financ al sector 15 projects, $ ,195
30  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



policy, law, regulation, and supervision; and cov-
ering banking, micro- and rural finance, housing
finance, contractual savings, and capital markets.
The Bank also sponsored large-scale training pro-
*   grams for staff from central banks, other regula-
tory and supervisory agencies, and financial inter-
mediaries from over eighty countries.
* I     ! The Bank's Strategic Compact provides addi-
tional funding to build and strengthen the Bank's
own capacity. In fiscal 1997, renewed emphasis
was placed on coordinating activities with the IFC,
_ -. ..X./  _    ; the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the re-
gional development banks, and the various inter-
national organizations such as the Basle Commit-
tee on Banking Supervision and the International
Organization of Securities Commissions.
Improving the financial sector's structure and
operations has been a top priority in fiscal 1997.
The Bank supported many countries facing a
combination of weak macroeconomic conditions
and a banking system plagued with bad debts
and inadequate supervision, through lending
and nonlending services. Some of these opera-
-             tions are described in Section Three of this
The Bank is helping the                           Annual Report. In some cases these efforts were
Ukrainian authorities mitigate                    undak           partneship with the eff TeBa
the social impact of coal                         undertaken in partnership with the iw. The Bank
sector restructuring.                             also provided support to countries reforming
their pension systems, insurance industries, and
payment systems.
leaders, academic and research institute leaders,
and lawyers from ten Asian countries partici-     Private provision of infrastructure
pated in the program.                                The World Bank Group aims to help countries
create the right mix of policy initiatives and in-
Financial sector development                      vestment resources to enable their private sectors
The importance of a sound financial sector      to play a bigger role in investing in the enormous
for economic development to be sustained is in-   infrastructure needs that characterize Bank client
creasingly evident as a growing number of coun-   countries. Estimated at $200-250 billion over
tries encounter financial instability. A report is-    the next ten years, these requirements can only
sued in the spring of 1997 by a committee of      be met by private provision of infrastructure
representatives from industrialized countries,    (PPI), with domestic and foreign investors supply-
emerging markets, and international institutions,   ing the capital. Through its financial support the
and endorsed by the G- 10 countries, empha-       World Bank Group is an important catalyst in
sized the Bank's key role in supporting develop-    enabling PPi (see table 2-3), and its most active in-
ing countries seeking to strengthen their finan-   strument remains investment lending with strong
cial systems. The Bank has provided technical     policy content. Increased PPi operations in fiscal
assistance to over seventy countries, focusing on    1997 were again concentrated in this type of
financial institution and market infrastructure   instrument.
development and upgrading finiancial sector
SECTION Two  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  31



TABLE 2-3. WORLD BANK PPI OPERATIONS, FISCAL YEARS 1988-97
Latin America Middle East
East Asia          Europe and   and the      and
Instrument            Africa  and Pacific South Asia Central Asia Caribbean  North Africa Total
Adjustment: single sector  4     0          0         1           1         1          7
Adjustment: multisector   1      0          0         1           7         1         10
Technical assistance    6         1         1         1          13         0         22
Investment lending     37       24         18        16          26         8        129
Guarantees              0        4          2         0           1         1          8
Total                  48       29         21        19          48        11        176
of which: increase in FY97 (7)  (6)       (3)        (3)       (14)        (5)      (38)
Among PPI projects approved in fiscal 1997    important tool for development finance. The
were many innovative operations. In Poland the    Bank's executive directors approved three guar-
Port Access and Management Project is enhanc-    antee operations totaling $420 million in fiscal
ing private sector ownership of port operating  1997. They support two private sector opera-
companies in three major ports. The Taiz Water    tions and one public sector operation:
Supply Pilot Project in Yemen, while mitigating   * an innovative $120 million partial risk guar-
water shortages through water supply invest-    antee scheme in Ukraine to support a facility
ments, is establishing community water associa-    designed to enable private sector exporters to
tions and preparing a management contract to    access commercial financing.
privatize the local water utility. And in Uruguay  * a $200 million guarantee for the Sea
the Forest Products Railway loan helped create  Launch Project, a joint venture involving
a special-purpose concession to haul wood       American, Norwegian, Russian, and Ukrainian
products from producers to port. This project is   companies, to construct a facility to launch
one of several high-impact railway              commercial satellites from the Pacific Ocean.
concessioning operations that the Bank has sup-    The Bank guarantee covers the risks of govern-
ported in eighteen countries over the last de-  ment interference in Russia and Ukraine, where
cade (see box 2-3).                            important components of the facility will be
A worldwide shift toward greater private      produced.
participation in infrastructure in at least eighty  * a partial credit guarantee to support a pub-
countries has resulted in nearly 1,200 projects  lic sector power restructuring project in Leba-
in telecommunications, energy, water, and trans-    non. The operation guarantees a bond issue of
port. As governments retreat from their earlier  $ 100 million to support the Electricite du
role as owners and operators of infrastructure  Liban, the national electric utility.
facilities, they need to emphasize their new      Bank coverage is provided when neither the
role of establishing sustainable regulatory     private market nor IFC or MIGA operations are
frameworks. The Bank has established the        sufficient to mobilize funds. Its guarantees are
International Forum for Utility Regulation      intended to bring broader benefits by facilitat-
(IFUR), a worldwide learning forum, so that     ing financing for projects that will provide
utility regulators can exchange cross-country   benchmarks for subsequent projects that might
information on best practices and improve their   otherwise attract limited or no coverage. The
regulatory regimes.                             Bank continues to refine and accelerate imple-
mentation of its guarantee program, building on
Guarantee program                               the success of completed operations. The pipe-
Because guarantees lower project risks and in-   line of prospective guarantee operations, which
duce private capital, they are an increasingly
32  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



is dominated by privately sponsored operations,      government guarantee programs and structuring
continues to expand. It includes more than fifty    transactions.
projects across all regions and covers all major        In fiscal 1997, FIAS22 completed thirty-two
infrastructure sectors.                              new advisory projects in twenty-eight countries.
To more actively integrate the guarantee pro-      These included advice on attracting foreign di-
gram into the Bank's development assistance          rect investment (FDI) in infrastructure for the
package, guarantee processing has been speeded       Philippines and Zimbabwe; on removing admin-
up by streamlining documentation require-            istrative barriers to investment for Mozambique
ments and developing model agreements. Vari-         and Swaziland; and establishing strategies and
ous information materials21 have been issued to      institutions for investment promotion in China,
help Bank clients better understand both the         Croatia, and El Salvador. FIAS also conducted or
nature of guarantees and how they are pre-           participated in a number of multicountry con-
pared, appraised, and negotiated.                    ferences on investment issues, including a
In parallel with its guarantee program, the        roundtable for Asian countries on the role of
Bank expanded its efforts to help governments
attract project finance, with particular emphasis
on private financing for infrastructure invest-      21. World Bank Guarantees Handbook;" "Revised World
ments. These efforts include advice on develop-      Bank Guarantee Brochure" (in English, French, and Spanish),
issued by Cofinancing and Project Finance Department, Re-
ing contractual arrangements and competitive         source Mobilization and Cofinancing Vice Presidency.
bidding packages for selecting private sponsors      22. FIAS is a joint IFc-Bank program that provides advisory
to undertake projects. Substantial project fi-       services to governments to help them improve the policy
nance advisory services were extended to             and institutional environment for foreign private direct in-
vestment. The program is funded by the iFc, the Bank, other
China, Colombia, Pakistan, and the Philippines       donors, and paying customers among the developing coun-
in fiscal 1997, including advice on setting up       tries that receive advice.
BOX 2- 3. RAILWAY CONCESSIONING
The Bank's client countries have made large     lendingfor labor redundancy and related "social
investments in their railways, but many are ineffi-  service" concessions.
cient and are losing both market share and revenues.  Bank support to railways in Argentina, C6te
Through targeted advisory services and a mix offi-  d'Ivoire, and Burkina Faso is exemplary. In Argen-
nancial investments, the Bank has promoted various    tina, Bank loans totaling $325 million and two IFc
types of concessioning over the past seven years to  operations led to concessioning of five of six freight
promote private sector solutions to railway ineffi-  railways, seven suburban passenger lines, and the
ciency. Eighteen countries, most of them in Latin  Buenos Aires metro. As a result, annual losses have
America and Africa, have successfully adopted con-  been reduced by about $1 billion, or nearly 1 percent
cessions thus far, enhancing the private sector's role  of GDP, and a long decline in freight and passenger
even when full privatization was not possible.    traffic has been reversed. The Bank's loans indirectly
Successful railway concessioning depends on forg-    financed the costs of redundancies. The laborforce
ing partnerships among governments, railway and    was reducedffrom 90,000 to fewer than 20,000, but
union leaders, donors including the World Bank and  output increased so that labor productivity
the iFc, and the private sector Roundtables organized    quadrupled.
by the Bank and involving IFC have been an effective  The Bank supported the first African and first bi-
means of bringing the major parties together       national rail concession, which now connects C6te
Concessioning has improved productivity and     d'Ivoire with Burkina Faso. In its first year this con-
service quality, reduced costs to consumers, and re-  cession reversed a sixteen-year decline in traffic and
duced government deficits. Through its assistance for    more than doubled labor and asset productivity.
concessioning, the Bank has also pioneered
SECTION Two  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  33



government policies and programs in encourag-    The privatization technical assistance pro-
ing outflows of FDI from the newly industrialized   gram, combining trust funds from the Japanese
countries of Asia. Two occasional papers based  government and the World Bank, supports free-
on the proceedings of earlier roundtables for  standing technical assistance for privatization
promoting FDI in the infrastructure sector in  that is not specifically linked to project prepara-
Eastern Europe and in Africa were put out by   tion-thus giving countries an opportunity to
FIAS during the year.                          collaborate with the Bank on creative analytical
and policy work. In fiscal 1997 the program
Working with partners for greater              supported two privatization networks of infor-
effectiveness and impact                       mal groups of government officials, private sec-
One of the Bank's guiding principles for in-  tor managers, and academics in Asia and the
creasing development effectiveness in the area of  Pacific and in Latin America and the Caribbean.
private sector development is working with part-    InfoDev is a multidonor program set up un-
ners. The Bank, bilateral donors, and private  der the leadership of the World Bank to pro-
companies have joined together in five global  mote information technology applications in de-
partnerships that disburse $35 million annually    velopment. This year it concluded trust fund
from trust funds contributed by official and pri-   agreements with sixteen donors, set up a techni-
vate donors and the World Bank. These partner-   cal advisory panel, ran a worldwide colloquium
ships facilitate the sharing of knowledge and best  for over 100 government and private sector ex-
practice as well as leveraging development assis-   perts, and funded projects in twelve countries.
tance resources for clients.
The World Bank/UNDP Water and Sanitation     Research
Program provides urban and rural water supply    Uniquely placed to analyze the issues critical
services increasingly oriented toward commu-   to effective development policy, the Bank's re-
nity-based and private sector-led solutions.   search mandate encompasses the range of fac-
The Energy Sector Management Assistance      tors that influence poverty reduction, social
Program (ESMAP) provides technical assistance to    welfare, and economic growth. The Bank has
help countries privatize and restructure their  unequaled access to information and data on
power sectors; develop oil and gas trade; pro-  circumstances and policies across countries
mote private sector involvement in rural energy;   and over time, and its staff are in constant
develop renewables such as solar, wind, and bio-   contact with officials who identify the crucial
mass energy options; as well as support environ-   current problems.
mentally sustainable energy options.             A fundamental improvement in knowledge
The Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest   management has been critical to the Bank's
(CGAP) develops global best practice and pro-  strategic agenda in fiscal 1997, and generating
motes pilot programs in the field of microcredit.  that knowledge is the goal of Bank research. Ef-
Since its inception two years ago, CGAP has gener-  forts to improve results and effectiveness are
ated enormous interest in microcredit programs    based on enhancing understanding of all aspects
and has committed about $15 million (out of    of development; making information generated
the $30 million total approved by the Bank in  by the Bank's activities accessible; and improv-
fiscal 1994) for pilot projects, including women's  ing staff capacity to adapt knowledge to meet
banking in Latin America, a credit union for   different country circumstances.
poor entrepreneurs in Senegal, and a network or-    In fiscal 1997, the research programs focused
ganization servicing six microfinancing affiliates    on:
in the Philippines. CGAP serves as coordinator and  * increasing flexibility to analyze urgent and
clearinghouse for information on the more than    newly arising issues;
$300 million-worth of projects that are being    * fostering partnerships with national and in-
implemented by all donors.                    ternational research agencies;
34 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



* making research reports understandable to   market responses, including investor wariness to
the wide membership in the development com-    finance firms facing regulatory penalties, com-
munity; and                                     munity intervention in production, and related
* opening new communication channels to       consumer resistance.
reach the range of audiences in that community.   Working with partners. Bank researchers are
These elements are also key to implementing    establishing networks of partners with other de-
the Strategic Compact and will be high on the   velopment research agencies. The Development
agenda in coming years.                         Research Group has created a program of inter-
change with researchers in several agencies in
Increasingflexibility                           Japan, for example. The Bank's Research Com-
The Development Economics Vice-Presidency,    mittee fostered increased research capacity and
which is responsible for the Bank's research, was   was instrumental in establishing a research pro-
restructured in fiscal 1997 to facilitate fast real-   gram in Russia and a center for economics train-
location of resources to address critical policy  ing in Ukraine. The Bank provided further sup-
questions and problems as they emerge. Several    port to the China Center for Economic
studies focused on development issues needing   Research, which was established in fiscal 1996.
new approaches, such as work on the role of the    And the African Economic Research Consor-
state and environmental regulation.             tium, which the Bank helped to found in 1988,
World Development Report 199723 (WDR) ex-    is receiving financial support from the Bank's
amines how the institutional capability of the  Special Grants program.
state can be enhanced to implement much           Partnerships in sector research programs and
needed social and economic reforms. The report   projects are drawing together analysts from
recognizes the need for a more effective, al-   both local and international agencies. A major
though not a minimalist, state. It outlines a two-   research program on the role of government in
part strategy that requires governments to      AIDS mitigation and prevention is illustrative. It
(i) identify from the increasingly broad reform  is a product of collaboration between the Euro-
agenda those priority activities that are consis-  pean Union and UNAIDS, which is itself a joint
tent with the state's institutional capability; and    program of the World Health Organization
(ii) incorporate strategies to strengthen that ca-    (WHO), United Nations Development
pability by establishing incentives that encour-  Programme (UNDP), United Nations Children's
age officials to do their jobs better and proce-  Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Educational, Sci-
dures that constrain arbitrary and corrupt      entific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the
behavior. WDR 97 also analyzes issues such as   United Nations Population Fund, and the World
collapsed states and the need for greater inter-  Bank. The institutional ties established in this
national collective action in today's more inte-  work will provide a basis for further coopera-
grated nation-state system.                     tion in other research on public health issues.
Another Bank research program elaborated        A Bank research team working on industrial
innovative incentive systems to compensate for    emissions has developed a similarly wide range
limited institutional capacity in environmental  of collaborating institutions in client countries.
regulation and enforcement. Public disclosure of   Initiated in Indonesia in collaboration with the
information on firms' industrial emissions is at  Indonesian Environmental Impact Management
the heart of the program. While the small group    Agency, the project has been extended, with
of serious polluters that should be targeted for  work going on in cooperation with national
formal regulatory action are identified, the re-  and local agencies in Brazil, China, Colombia,
search shows that public information on pollu-    India, Mexico and the Philippines. The research
tion damage mobilizes powerful community        program, the implementation of disclosure pro-
participation and facilitates negotiation about
harmful emissions among a much wider range      23. World Bank. 1997. World Development Report 1997: The
of local firms. Public disclosures also trigger  State in a Changing World. New York: Oxford University
Press.
SECTION Two  MAJOR WORLD BANK PROGRAMS  35



grams, and the channels of cooperation will all    example, provides data drawn from related re-
serve as precedents for further work on environ-   search that is accessible through Internet sites, a
mental issues.                                  CD-ROM, and diskettes for personal computers.
Global Knowledge 97. In June 1997 the World     To make it more accessible, Bank research is
Bank and the government of Canada hosted        being provided in new ways: presenting models
Global Knowledge 97, an international confer-   and econometrics briefly and straightforwardly
ence held in Toronto, Canada. The role of       and communicating findings in a clear and con-
knowledge and information technology in eco-    cise manner to highlight the policy implications.
nomic and social development was examined       The Policy Research Reports series was created
through seven themes: empowering the poor       to make research accessible to a wide develop-
with information and knowledge; the state's     ment policy audience. The report on AIDS24 now
role in developing regulatory frameworks for in-   being produced, for example, is directed not
formation; infrastructure and capacity building;    only to analysts of public economics but also to
fostering science and technology in developing  the international public health community. It
countries; promoting knowledge, civic dialogue,    explains the economic effects of AIDS and the fi-
and informed citizenship; utilizing distance edu-   nancing of control and palliative care strategies
cation and technology for learning; and partner-   for a noneconomist audience and also covers
ships. EDI served as secretariat for the confer-  the analysis of political economy and social wel-
ence, which brought together leaders from       fare issues and outlines low-cost provision of
government, the private sector, and NGOs and    compassionate care and treatment.
individuals from IDA-eligible countries.
Improving communication. The Bank is im-      24. World Bank. 1997. Confronting AiDs: Public Priorities in a
proving the way it presents and channels its    Global Epidemic. New York: Oxford University Press.
communication-through paper, electronic, and
broadcast media-to more clearly present the
importance of research findings for policymakers,
analysts, and Bank operational staff. The EDI'S
Global Links television series, for example, pro-
duced and marketed for national broadcast, is
now in nearly two dozen of the Bank's client
countries. Global Links highlighted three docu-
mentaries covering research on the economic
impact of education reform in fiscal 1997. EDI
drew on a wide range of Bank research on the
implementation and implications of economic
reform in its learning programs for non-econo-
mist audiences, including parliamentarians, la-
bor union members, and journalists.
World Development Indicators 1997, which
present the most comprehensive data series on
developing countries, were produced in a
CD-ROM format this year. The program allows
easy access and review and straightforward
comparisons of countries' relative positions on a
wide range of indicators. The format also allows
researchers to perform sophisticated economet-
ric analysis. One-time studies are providing
easier and more useful access to research data:
the Industrial Pollution Projections System, for
36  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



SECTION THREE                             1997 REGIONAL PERSPECTIVES
AFRICA
Improved policies continued  GDP per capita of less than   cent economic performance
to fuel Africa's economic recov-    $1,000 grew by 3.1 percent  has energized both African
ery, strengthening the reform  on average per year, but coun-   leaders and donors. Donors
momentum and the resolve of   tries that implemented poli-   have responded positively by
donors and African countries to   cies conducive to social and  launching the fourth phase
work together. This gives cause  macro-economic stability and  (1997-99) of the Special Pro-
for optimism as Africa's agenda    efficiently allocated their re-  gram of Assistance (SPA) for
moves beyond recovery to focus    sources among key parts of  low-income, debt-burdened
on development. The Bank's    the economy bettered that      countries in Africa, with indi-
strategy-in addition to its pri-   rate, growing by 4.6 percent  cations of new support of
mary goal of reducing poverty-    annually (see Figure 3-2). Bet-    about $5 billion of highly
focuses on two interrelated ob-    ter policies resulted in a more    concessional, quick-disbursing
jectives that are critical to  broad-based recovery than in    assistance for the period, to be
Africa's development: building  1995. Budget deficits, though  used in conjunction with
institutional and human capac-   still unsustainably high, de-  World Bank and IMF programs.
ity and enhancing knowledge   clined as a percentage of GDP  Today there is cautious opti-
and its dissemination.        nearly everywhere, helping to    mism about Africa's future,
bring inflation down for the  with a new openness to taking
Sub-Saharan Africa's eco-   second year in a row in several   risks, trying new ideas, setting
nomic recovery both acceler-    countries. Performance bene-    bolder targets, and looking be-
ated and spread to more coun-   fited from the stronger owner-   yond the near term. The entry
tries in 1996. In sharp contrast   ship of reform programs dis-  of South Africa as an active
to the early 1990s, the region's   played by a new class of  participant onto the African
gross domestic product (GDP)    committed leadership in many   economic scene contributes
grew faster than the popula-  parts of the continent.        to the recent optimism. All
tion for the second year in a   Yet improvements are frag-    of this is refreshingly new
row. Estimated GDP growth     ile, and the threat of reversal is  for Africa.
was 4.9 percent in 1996 com-    real in some cases. Several    World Bank loans and Inter-
pared to 3.6 percent in 1995  countries are mired in strife or   national Development Asso-
(see Figure 3-1). Growth was  civil disorder. Social indicators   ciation (IDA) credits approved
widely shared, although rates    remain below those of other  by the executive directors in
varied between countries:     regions; fiscal deficits are high    fiscal 1997 totaled $1,736.7
twenty-three countries accel-    and domestic savings low; aid  million-compared to
erated their GDP growth, seven    dependency remains high; pri-   $2,740.1 in fiscal 1996. The
reversed their GDP decline, and   vate investment and foreign  number of operations ap-
thirty-four recorded an im-   direct investment levels,      proved fell to forty-nine com-
provement in per capita in-   though beginning to improve,    pared with fifty-three in fiscal
come, many of them signifi-   are low; and there is a signifi-    1996. Table 3-1 shows the
cantly and some for the first  cant unfinished agenda in ar-    sectoral distribution of lending
time in years. In most coun-  eas such as the financial sector,  to the region for the 1988-97
tries, exports rebounded, too,    public expenditure manage-  period. Table 3-2 compares
and evidence continues to     ment, and privatization. But in   commitments, disbursements
confirm the link between good   sharp contrast to the past-  and net transfers to the region
policies and good economic    when the improved economic   for fiscal years 1992-97, and
performance, especially in the    fortunes of individual coun-  table 3-3 shows operations in
poorer African countries. Be-    tries tended to weaken rather    the Africa region approved by
tween 1994-96, the forty      than strengthen the resolve to   the Executive Board during
countries in the region with  continue reforms-Africa's re-   fiscal 1997 by country. The
SECTION THREE AFRICA  37



FIGURE 3-1 Africa, Growth of GDP and Exports
(percent)
I0
prts
8
6
4
Ave  uation     2. 1./e4
2
_|  ** ,I S .5                                      55               S._-
dip in IDA commitments from $2,740.1 million    Shifting agenda
in fiscal 1996 to $1,680.7 million in fiscal 1997  Against this backdrop of improved perfor-
reflects greater selectivity in lending, the accel-  mance and better prospects for Africa, the fun-
erated move by the Bank out of failed invest-   damental priority of the Bank's strategy remains
ment models, and the slow uptake of new strat-    one of helping the region to accelerate and sus-
egies focused on decentralized implementation.    tain growth, to extend the reach of growth to
While it is not yet possible to measure fully the    more countries, and to make growth benefit
transitional effect of the reorganization of the  more people. Better results are reestablishing a
Africa regional office, it is estimated to have  stronger base for development and bolstering
been small.                                      effective interest in it. This, too, is refreshingly
In addition to Bank and IDA operations, the   new for Africa. While the center of the Bank's
Bank's private sector affiliate, the International  strategy continues to be reducing poverty and
Finance Corporation (IFC), made seventy-three   improving the quality of people's lives, two
investments during the year for a total of $385  other areas are crucial to helping Africa shift its
million, compared to the seventy-one invest-     agenda from recovery to long-term, sustainable
ments totaling $191 million in fiscal 1996. The  development: (i) building human and institu-
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency        tional capacity (see box 3-1), and (ii) creating,
(MIGA) issued its first guarantee in the region for    managing, and disseminating knowledge-an
an investment in Guinea totaling $8.3 million    objective that is at the center of the Bank's
in coverage.                                     Strategic Compact.
38 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Building blocks: country assistance strategies    The Bank has given priority to those coun-
Preparing country assistance strategies (CAS)  tries in the region that have demonstrated a
in consultation with individual countries on the    firm commitment to improved economic
broadest possible basis is the foundation for   management, with a strong focus on poverty
implementing the Bank's strategy. In the Africa    issues and the ability to use resources-both
region, particular attention was paid in fiscal  domestic and external-efficiently. In line
1997 to ensuring that nongovernmental organi-    with the Bank's strategic goals for assistance
zations (NGOs) and civil society were more     to the region, another commitment has in-
deeply involved in developing CASs. And consis-    creasingly been added in fiscal 1997: the
tent with the goals identified by the IDA depu-  commitment to capacity building.
ties, the analyses and action plans of poverty as-  Two instruments epitomize selective and
sessments and other relevant economic and       flexible approaches to Bank assistance in fis-
sector work were reflected in CASs. Indeed, pov-    cal 1997. The first is policy-based lending in
erty reduction is the central theme in CASS for  support of high-impact economic reform
Burkina Faso and Zambia this year, following    programs. Here, each adjustment operation
the examples set earlier by Mali, Malawi, and   approved in fiscal 1997 contains an innova-
Mozambique, among others. To better identify    tion in the form of either a single tranche,
ways to develop the private sector and to design    disbursed on the basis of upfront action
a joint strategy for addressing them, the prepa-  when the operation is approved, or a floating
ration of the C6te d'lvoire CAS was undertaken  tranche, disbursed when pre-agreed specific
collaboratively with IFC. Capacity-building goals   conditions have been met. At the same time,
are also being integrated into CASs.            clear performance indicators, defined jointly
with the client, are facilitating implementa-
Selectivity and flexibility                    tion and follow-up. A second instrument is
The diversity of Africa, documented in "A     sector investment programs (SIPs). Introduced
Continent in Transition,"' and the urgency of its   two years ago, sIPs support the implementa-
needs call for a combination of selectivity and  tion of a set of policies for a sector (rather
flexibility in Bank assistance. Selectivity in  than a project) over time and bring together
country and sector focus and in lending and     1. World Bank. 1995. "A Continent in Transition: Sub-
nonlending activities is exercised through CASS.  Saharan Africa in the Mid-I 990s." Office of the Chief
Economist, Africa Region. Washington, D.C.
FIGURE 3-2 Africa, Accounting for Growth
4.6
0                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~4.
| -}3157,|    l 
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES                        AVERAGE GDP GROWTH RATE 1994-96
Countries with GDP     ... and with                          ... and with resource-
below $1,000 per capita  social stability                       allocation efficiency
SECTION THREE AFRICA  39



all expenditures within the sector: recurrent and  Nonlending services also were significantly
capital, local and donor. In sips, the sector effec-    enhanced to be more focused, timely, and bet-
tively becomes the project. Such operations,  ter disseminated.
which are not appropriate in all sectors, circum-  The Bank's intensified commitment to
stances, or countries, still are evolving as experi-   successful rural development is reflected in
ence is gained.                              the designation of Guinea, Malawi, Mali,
In fiscal 1997, assistance under the HIPC Debt    Mauritania, and Uganda as focus countries for
Initiative (to assist heavily indebted poor coun-    monitoring the progress of rural development
tries) was approved for the first time, with  activities not only in agriculture and water sup-
Uganda being the beneficiary (see box in Over-  ply but in a number of related areas as well,
view section). The preliminary HiPc documents,  particularly poverty reduction and the provi-
including debt sustainability analyses for   sion of transport and financial services to rural
Burkina Faso and C6te d'lvoire, were discussed  populations. Support of private sector develop-
by the Executive Boards of the Bank and IMF  ment focused on strengthening microenter-
during fiscal 1997. Decision points on these two    prises, which play a vital role in rural develop-
countries are expected to be reached in early  ment. A model microenterprise intervention
fiscal 1998.                                 was achieved in the Republic of South Africa
TABLE 3-1. LENDING TO BORROWERS IN AFRICA, BY SECTOR,
FISCAL YEARS 1988-97
(millions of us dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                        FY88-92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Agriculture                    657.6   300.2   152.6   287.1   301.3   193.7
Education                      257.2   401.9   325.5   201.2   131.6    75.1
Electric power and other energy    163.1   356.0    90.0   255.3    73.3   163.7
Environment                     36.9    18.1       2.6      8.0    38.5    95.4
Finance                        222.0   279.6   400.1        7.2   116.9    65.9
Health, population and nutrition   181.6    99.5   161.6   271.7   158.7    54.9
Industry                       310.9    20.9    16.8   120.0    23.7    23.8
Mining                          15.1     -        -       24.8    12.2    21.4
Multisector                    641.0   451.2   724.1   470.9   387.8   707.5
Oil and gas                     57.6      2.4   186.2      -       -        -
Public sector management       125.7   155.3    61.0   117.3   592.2   110.1
Social sector                   39.9    43.7    46.7    39.8   257.5
Telecommunications              68.2    89.1      -        -       -        -
Transportation                 405.4   483.0   501.9    74.8   420.7    52.9
Urban development              234.3    49.2    64.7   158.0   190.0   147.3
Water supply and sanitation    214.4    67.2    74.1   248.2    35.7    25.0
Total                        3,630.8  2,817.3  2,807.9  2,284.3  2,740.1  1,736.7
Of which: IBRD               966.8    47.0   127.7    80.7       -        56.0
IDA              2,664.0  2,770.3  2,680.2  2,203.6  2,740.1  1,680.7
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
-Zero.
40  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



TABLE 3-2. WORLD BANK COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND NET
TRANSFERS IN AFRICA, FISCAL YEARS 1992-97
(millions of us dollars)
C6te d'lvoire         Kenya              Zambia             Total region
start               start               start               start
Item              1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-979  1997  1997 1992-97,
Undisbursed
commitments      420                  557                 360               10,372
Commitments              96   1,727          232   1,129          156  1,163         1,737  16,360
Gross
disbursements          180   1,312           84    864          118    965         2,479  16,554
Repayments              166   1,076           96    632            49    313         1,060  6,333
Net
disbursements           15    236           -12    232           69    651          1,419  10,221
Interestandcharges       99    844            14    361            18    154           623  4,715
Net transfer             -84   -608           -53   -129           51    497           796  15,506
NOTE: The countries shown in the table are those with the largest borrowings of Bank funds duing fiscal 1996-97. Details
mnay not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included through fiscal 1996.
when the World Bank helped assemble a team           providing a framework for dialogue and conflict
of international microfinance experts to work        resolution. The Uganda Private Sector Competi-
with a team of South African bankers, NGOs, and    tiveness Project, which follows prototypes devel-
government officials to expand access to finan-      oped in C6te d'Ivoire and Senegal, is an ex-
cial services. The government adopted the            ample: under this ongoing project, approved in
group's proposal for an apex organization as the     fiscal 1996, the government passed on an IDA
centerpiece of its micro- and small-enterprise       credit in the form of a grant to a private sector
development program, which became opera-             foundation, which administers an equity fund
tional in fiscal 1997.                               and a matching grant voucher scheme for prod-
Because of the important role private sector       uct and market development. The private sector
development has in enhancing growth, the             foundation manages the scheme, with the gov-
Bank, IFC, MIGA, and the Foreign Investment Ad-      ernment cooperating by pursuing appropriate
visory Service (FIAS) worked together to help        policy and regulatory reforms.
improve the region's business environment. An           The Bank supported its clients undertaking re-
example of close Bank-IFc collaboration was in       form of their financial sectors through strength-
the preparation of the Gabon Privatization and       ening prudential supervision and restructuring
Regulatory Capacity Building Project approved        banking systems such as in Cameroon, Ghana,
in fiscal 1997 and aimed at increasing the level     Mozambique, and Uganda; liberalizing financial
of private sector investment in the country. In      systems such as in Cape Verde; and deepening
Mozambique the Bank has been working with            financial markets such as in Gabon.
the authorities to improve the business environ-
ment using a "roadmap" developed by FIAS. And        Better development through
to assist African countries in their efforts to at-  increasing knowledge
tract foreign investment, MIGA continued its            Monitoring activities better, especially poverty
support of the network of African Investment         reduction effects, is embedded in all Bank activi-
Promotion Agencies. A specific objective of          ties. Knowledge-related activities themselves fo-
Bank activities has been to encourage partner-       cus on those sectors, issues, policies, and tech-
ship between the public and private sectors by       nologies that can help Africa "leapfrog" or
SECTION THREE  AFRICA   41



TABLE 3-3. OPERATIONS APPROVED DURING FISCAL YEAR 1997, AFRICA
Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                  Date of Approval    Maturities   SDR        US$
Benin
Transport Sector Investment Program                     Oct 31, 1996    2007/2036    27.50        40.00
Burkina Faso
Mining Sector Capacity Building and Environmental
Management Project                                     Jun 30, 1997    2007/2037    14.80       21.40
Post-Primary Education Project                          Dec 24, 1996    2007/2036    18.00        26.00
Cameroon
Second Structural Adjustment Credit                     Nov 14, 1996    2006/2035    17.50        25.20
Chad
Second Structural Adjustment Credit                     Jun 30, 1997    2007/2037    18.00        25.00
Comoros
Third Education Project                                  Jun 30, 1997    2007/2037     5.10        7.00
Pilot Agricultural Services Project                     Dec 23, 1996    2007/2036      1.10        1.60
C6te d'lvoire
Rural Land Management and Community Infrastructure
Development Project                                   May 30, 1997    2007/2037    29.60        41.00
Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit            Nov 14, 1996    2007/2036    37.90        54.60
Djibouti
Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project             Jan 23, 1997    2007/2036     4.60        6.50
Eritrea
Road Sector Engineering Project                         Apr 10, 1997    2007/2037      4.40        6.32
Gabon
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building
Technical Assistance Project                           Jun 10, 1997    1997/2012     n.a.       10.00
Ghana
Village Infrastructure Project                          May 30, 1997    2007/2036    20.80        30.00
Private Sector Adjustment Credit                        Nov 14, 1996    2005/2035      2.40        3.50
Public Financial Management Technical Assistance Project  Nov 7, 1996    2007/2036    14.40       20.90
Guinea
Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project               Apr 17, 1997    2007/2037    18.00        25.00
Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project                          Jun 10, 1997    2007/2037    10.50       14.30
Kenya
Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project       Jun 19, 1997    2007/2037    86.60      125.00
Early Childhood Development Project                      Apr 8, 1997    2007/2037    19.30        27.80
National Agricultural Research Project-Phase II          Jan 28, 1997    2007/2036    27.40       39.70
Structural Adjustment Credit                            Nov 14, 1996    2007/2036    18.50        26.60
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project           Jul 30, 1996    2007/2036     8.90       12.80
Madagascar
Urban Infrastructure Project                            Jun 25, 1997    2007/2037    25.20        35.00
Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project  May 29, 1997    2007/2037    17.20      23.80
Structural Adjustment Credit                            Mar 14, 1997    2007/2037    48.60        70.00
Structural Adjustment Credit                            Mar 14, 1997    2007/2037      0.40        0.60
Second Environment Program                                Jan 9, 1997    2007/2036    20.60       30.00
Public Management Capacity Building Project               Sep 3, 1996    2007/2036     9.60       13.83
Malawi
Environmental Management Project                         Jun 20, 1997    2007/2037     8.70       12.40
Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program           Nov 14, 1996    2007/2036      2.40        3.40
42   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                  Date of Approval    Maturities   SDR        US$
Mali
Regional Hydropower Development Project                  Jun 26, 1997    2007/2037    12.60       17.10
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project              May 30, 1997    2007/2037      3.00        4.20
Urban Development and Decentralization Project          Dec 13, 1996    2007/2036    55.50        80.00
Mauritania
Regional Hydropower Development Project                  Jun 26, 1997    2007/2037     8.10       11.10
Rainfed Natural Resource Management Project              Jun 17, 1997    2007/2037    13.20       18.00
Public Resource Management Credit                       Nov 14,1996    2007/2036      0.40         0.60
Mozambique
Third Economic Recovery Credit                            Feb 4, 1997    2007/2037    69.10      100.00
Niger
Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project             May 29, 1997    2007/2037    14.50       20.00
Public Sector Adjustment Credit                         Mar 20, 1997    2007/2037    21.60        30.00
Health Sector Development Program                         Sep 5, 1996    2007/2036    27.90       40.00
Rwanda
Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Project            Jun 25, 1997    2007/2037    36.70        50.00
Senegal
Regional Hydropower Development Project                  Jun 26, 1997    2007/2037     7.70       10.50
Urban Transport Reform and Capacity Building
Technical Assistance Project                           Jun 13, 1997    2007/2036     4.90        6.60
Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project  Jun 12, 1997    2007/2036     3.80        5.20
Endemic Disease Control Project                          May 8, 1997    2007/2036    10.80        14.90
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit                   Nov 14, 1996    2007/2035      1.30        1.80
Sierra Leone
Structural Adjustment Credit                            Nov 14, 1996    2004/2033     0.10         0.15
South Africa
Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation Project     May 29, 1997    2001/2012      n.a.       46.00
Tanzania
Structural Adjustment Credit                            Jun 20, 1997    2007/2037    93.20       128.90
National Agricultural Extension Project - Phase ll       Jul 11, 1996    2007/2036    21.50       31.10
River Basin Management and Smallholder
Irrigation Improvement Project                         Jul11,1996    2007/2036    18.20         26.30
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project           Jul 30, 1996    2007/2036     7.00       10.10
Uganda
Third Structural Adjustment Credit                        Jun 6,1997    2007/2037    90.40       125.00
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project           Jul30,1996    2007/2036       8.40       12.10
Zambia
Environmental Support Program                            Jun 10, 1997    2007/2037    9.30        12.80
Enterprise Development Project                          May 27, 1997    2007/2037    32.60       45.00
Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit            Nov 14, 1996    2007/2036      5.40        7.80
Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit             Aug 1, 1996    2007/2036    62.40       90.00
Zimbabwe
Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project  May 29, 1997    2007/2037    8.90       12.25
Total                                                                          1,186.50    1,736.75
n.a. = not applicable (IBRD loan).
SECTION THREE  AFRICA   43



FIGURE 3-3 Africa: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector, FiscalYear 1997
Water supply and sanitation, 2%                               Industry, 1%
Transportation, 3%                                            thr1
Health, population and nutrition, 3%                            Mining and other extractive, %
Finance, 4%
Education, 4%
Environment, 6%                                      Multisecto 41%
Pubic sector management, 6%
U~rban development, 9%
Electric power and other energy, 9%
Agriculture, I 1%
significantly accelerate its progress along the de-   jointly developed a major work program on
velopment path.                                  African development. The program comprises a
The Bank's country economic and sector        series of collaborative studies on seven issues:
work (Esw) program for the region continues to    debt, rural poverty, privatization, financial mar-
focus on public expenditure reviews (PERs),     kets, trade and industrial policy, civil service re-
which are essential for helping countries im-   form, and country selectivity in foreign assis-
prove the way they allocate their resources, es-    tance. The program was developed in close
pecially in favor of the social sectors. PERs are in-   collaboration with African researchers, who also
creasingly planned and carried out with the      are expected to take part in it.
participation of the countries concerned, are      The Bank is helping African countries to take
tied to the annual budget cycle, though within a    advantage of the "information highway" in order
medium-term macroeconomic framework, and        to enhance knowledge, information exchange,
are made available to policymakers as quickly as   and communications among African countries
possible. They aim to strengthen budget formu-    and between Africa and the rest of the world.
lation and implementation and to enhance gov-    Communications links are being established in
ernments' capacities to manage public expendi-    about a dozen ongoing or new projects in
ture efficiently. At the same time a program of  Ghana, Malawi, Mozambique, and Senegal.
regional studies is being carried out to address  Many of these activities are being carried out
problems and challenges that cut across coun-   with the help of the Economic Development
tries (such as poverty alleviation, institutional  Institute (EDI) and in partnership with the
development, AIDS, environment, and demobili-    United Nations Economic Commission for Af-
zation) and to draw out and operation-alize the    rica (UNECA). The latter is leading the African
findings of the Bank's ESW program.              Information Society Initiative and the Harness-
Two modern knowledge-management sys-          ing Information and Technology for Develop-
tems have been established to facilitate knowl-  ment component of the UN Special Initiative for
edge sharing and dissemination. The Live Data   Africa. Utilizing information technology,
Base constitutes the largest source of data on  though quite advanced in other parts of the
African economies, and the Best Practice Sys-   world, could not find a place on Africa's over-
tem aims to share lessons learned. Efforts are  loaded agenda until recently. This is changing, as
under way to make both systems available to      evidenced by the recent launch of the African
clients and partners through the Internet. In ad-    Virtual University, a project sponsored by the
dition, the Development Economics vice-          Bank in partnership with other donors to pro-
presidency and the Africa regional office have   vide satellite technology-based distance educa-
44 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



BOX 3-1. CAPACITY BUILDING FOR DEVELOPMENT
Sub-Saharan Africa's severe lack of capacity in    * Mainstreaming a capacity-building approach in
economic management and related areas is well     the World Bank by taking steps such as ensuring
documented and may be the missing ingredient in    CASs are explicitly aimed at building capacity; re-
the region's development. In fiscal 1996 the Bank's  viewing country portfolios and providing technical
African governors undertook a series of consultations    advice to task teams on strengthening capacity build-
with wide segments of their societies. They set in mo-    ing; expanding the skill base of staff to include com-
tion several national capacity assessments and a  petencies relevant to capacity development; and dis-
study of the impact that World Bank operations had    seminating lessons of experience.
on building capacity. The resulting report, "Partner-  * Fostering partnership by laying the groundwork
ship for Capacity Building: Strategy and Program of   for establishing a coordination mechanism and possi-
Action," was presented to the Bank's president and  bly a trust fund for capacity building.
subsequently to donors. It called for a series of ac-  * Supporting and facilitating national capacity ac-
tions at the national and international levels and  tivities by working closely with African authorities to
from the Bank. The president agreed to join the gov-  support their capacity-building initiatives, such as
ernors in implementing the report's recommenda-   carrying out national capacity assessments; establish-
tions, and other partners indicated their support.  ing national capacity-building secretariats, and for-
The Bank took several steps toward becoming a   mulating national capacity-development strategies.
more effective partner in capacity building in fiscal  * Building capacity in selected priority areas
1997. It has defined a strategic program of actions  by working through the Bank's operational teams
that will transform its policies and operating style  to establish centers of excellence in Africa for skill
and has established the Capacity Building Technical    and leadership development, revitalize African
Group within the Africa regional office to spearhead  universities, promote capacity building in civil soci-
activities. The Bank's response to the call from the  ety, and strengthen the capacity of the public and
African governors is proceeding on four fronts:   private sectors.
tion in science and engineering through public       Bank's cooperation with UNDP, UNECA, the
and private institutions.                            African Development Bank, and others working
EDI continued its support of the use of new        toward the shared objective of accelerated
technologies in Africa, too. Noteworthy are          growth of the UN Special Initiative for Africa. A
(i) the World Links for Development program,         cooperation arrangement with the European
which aims to connect 1,000 schools in the           Union was concluded in 1997; it will initially
developed world with 1,000 schools in the de-        focus on developing the private sector and
veloping world through the Internet, with heavy    human resources in C6te d'Ivoire, Ethiopia,
concentration in Africa; and (ii) the World Wide    and Mozambique.
Web-based Master's-level course on policy analy-        No activity better typifies the Bank's strive
sis and economic management developed for the        for results through partnership with others than
Africa Economic Research Consortium (AERc) and    the Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI). It owes
targeted to students from African universities.      its demonstrated success (for which it won a
Partnership at its best                              2. The Global Coalition for Africa was launched following
In fiscal 1997 the Bank continued to build on      the Maastricht Conference on Africa in 1990 as a forum for
building consensus on development issues among African
its commitment to work in partnership with oth-   countries and their external partners.
ers, first and foremost with its clients. It has con-    3. The Cross-Border Initiative, established in 1993, is
tinued to support the Global Coalition for           cosponsored by the World Bank, the IMIF, the European
Africa2 in its consensus-building efforts and the    Commission for the European Union, and the African
Cross-Border Initiative' and other regional inte-    Development Bank. The initiative is facilitating private
investment, trade, and payments in eastern and southern
gration efforts. Partnership also characterized the    Africa and in the Indian Ocean countries.
SECTION THREE  AFRICA   45



With IDA'S support, Kenya,Tanzania, and Uganda are conserving Lake Victoria's biodiversity and genetic resources-
generating food, ensuring safe water, reducing disease, and providing jobs.
Bank Excellence Award) to bringing together     the Economic Community of West African
central and local government, big and small     States (EcowAS) has decided to introduce a
business, bilateral and multilateral donors, com-    funding mechanism for road maintenance based
munities, NGOs, and affected people. The RMI    on user fees and stakeholder representation in
helps countries to implement policy reforms     each member country.
that will ensure that road maintenance is fi-
nanced on a sustainable basis. The initiative is a  Improving program and
key component of the Sub-Saharan Africa         project implementation
Transport Policy Program launched in 1987 by      The Bank has redoubled efforts to improve
the World Bank and UNECA. It covers seven       the implementation and impact of its projects
countries (Cameroon, Kenya, Madagascar, Tan-    in Africa. A comprehensive reevaluation of
zania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) and        the portfolio in the region's forty-eight coun-
benefits from the participation of bilateral and  tries was carried out in fiscal 1997, focusing
multilateral agencies. The RMI has (i) fostered  on implementation progress, quality, and
public-private partnerships through commer-     project outcomes. The reevaluation pointed
cializing roads-bringing them into the market-   to a need for a more realistic assessment of
place by assessing user fees without privatizing  performance, and, to this end, a number of rat-
the roads; and (ii) creating a system for govern-    ings were revised downward. In response, de-
ments to work with road users to manage and     tailed portfolio management programs have
sustain local road systems efficiently and effec-  been prepared. These will be agreed on with
tively and providing a forum for African coun-  the beneficiaries, who will participate in imple-
tries to form cross-national partnerships to    menting them. The actions involved range from
maintain roads. Significant road maintenance    actively restructuring the portfolio and rede-
policy reforms in line with the RMI have recently   signing projects where needed, to introducing
been undertaken in Ghana and Zambia, and the    performance criteria and a system of continu-
Authority of Heads of State and Government of   ous monitoring.
46 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Implementation is being helped by actions  enhanced by increased attention to capacity
carried out with partners inside the Bank (such    constraints and actions to alleviate them in CASS.
as EDI) and outside the Bank (such as NGOS),  Also, the innovations inherent in High Impact
some of which are already yielding results. For  Reform Programs and siPs, both of which
example, NGOs are increasingly involved in  were introduced in response to the implementa-
project implementation by subcontracting or  tion problems encountered by earlier instru-
overseeing project implementation. Some NGOS    ments with complex conditionality and uncoor-
have assisted in the design of projects; for ex-  dinated sector interventions, should help
ample, NGOS were involved in the Sustainable  improve outcomes.
and Participatory Energy Management Project in  The Africa regional office's renewal program,
Senegal, approved in fiscal 1997. The Mali  the first of the regional renewal programs, is al-
Grassroots Initiative to Fight Hunger and Pov-    ready having a positive impact through empha-
erty Project, which is in an advanced stage of  sizing country focus, client orientation, and
preparation, takes a new approach by involving    openness, all of which have been designed to
NGOS in intermediating and implementing     optimize results on the ground and reflect the
village-level development. Communities will  new culture of support to African leadership.
participate in selecting, planning, and imple-  The 1997 review of the region's entire portfolio,
menting microprojects, including small irrigation   unprecedented in its comprehensiveness, open-
works, community schools, and rural roads.  ness, and involvement of beneficiaries, is a first
EDI has helped to demonstrate the value,   direct result.
in terms of higher rates of return, of communi-
cating with beneficiaries during project develop-
ment so that they are informed about the opera-
tion-its purpose, design rationale, and how it
will be implemented. The prospects of im-
proved implementation and outcomes are being
SECTION THREE AFRICA  47



EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Despite the temporary cooling   in the 1 990s. China's growth    tries have a more robust exter-
of overheated economies in 1996,  has been astonishing, with per    nal and fiscal position than
most of the countries of the East   capita income rising 270 per-    countries that have faced
Asia and Pacific (EAP) region  cent in seventeen years. But    banking crises elsewhere. The
continued their unprecedented  even the lesser-developed      prospects for continued high
rapid growth in fiscal 1997.   Indochinese economies have     growth in coming years re-
Many began to confront the new    shared the rapid growth dur-  main sound, provided coun-
round of policy reforms and insti-  ing the past several years, with   tries undertake the necessary
tutional development necessary  Vietnam growing at 8 percent   important reforms.
to sustain rapid and socially re-   and Cambodia and Lao PDR    East Asia enjoys enviable
sponsible development in the fu-    at 6 percent per year in the  macroeconomic conditions
ture and to lift the region's re-  first half of the 1990s.   and an unprecedented growth
maining 350 million poor out of  While the region continued    momentum, but both the low-
poverty. In fiscal 1997 the focus   to be a major recipient of pri-    and middle-income countries
of World Bank support to the re-   vate capital flows and a grow-    face several structural con-
gion shifted toward helping coun-  ing world trade player, a slow-    straints to maintaining future
tries promote the commercializa-   down of exports and        growth at historic rates. A new
tion and participation of the  macroeconomic performance      round of policy reforms and
private sector in infrastructure fi-  in 1996 raised questions about   institutional development is
nancing; increasing the protection   whether the East Asian   necessary to sustain rapid, so-
of vulnerable groups who might    "miracle" is over. After years of   cially responsible, environ-
otherwise be left out of the   double-digit growth, export    mentally sound, and quality
region's growth experience; ensur-  growth slowed, and some   development into the next
ing that environmental cleanup  countries experienced large   century. Addressing these
and protection are more inte-  current account deficits. Al-  challenges underpinned the
grated into the modernization  though this highlighted some    Bank's lending and advisory
process; and strengthening the in-  structural issues, it mostly re-    services strategy for assisting
stitutions necessary for efficient    flected one-off, or cyclical  its clients in the East Asia
and competitive market econo-  events, and the successful     and Pacific region during
mies. Although the East Asia and   cooling of overheated econo-    fiscal 1997.
Pacific portfolio is strong, signifi-   mies rather than an end to  World Bank loans and Inter-
cant additional efforts were made  sustained economic growth.  national Development Asso-
to improve problem projects,   Indeed, exports and overall    ciation (IDA) credits approved
work more closely with clients,  economic growth recovered in   by the executive directors in
and enhance consultation with    the first half 1997, albeit be-  fiscal 1997 totaled $4,866
local groups and NGOS.         low past levels. The large cur-    million, compared to $5,420
rent account deficits, driven  in fiscal 1996. Table 3-4 shows
East Asia's capacity to sus-  by high private inflows rather    the sectoral distribution of
tain rapid growth is without   than low domestic savings,     lending to the region for the
precedent. The only significant   reflect some short-run vulner-    1988-97 period. Table 3-5
group of countries to close the    abilities. And although there  compares commitments, dis-
gap with the industrialized    are some concerns about the    bursements, and net transfers
economies over the past few    fragility of the region's bank-    to the region for fiscal years
decades, their growth has aver-  ing systems, the risks of loss of    1992-97, and table 3-6 shows
aged 7 percent per year in real   confidence in banking systems    operations in the EAP region
terms since the mid-1970s, ac-   would be easy to overstate,  approved by the Executive
celerating to 9 percent per year  since most East Asian coun-  Board during fiscal 1997 by
48  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



TABLE 3-4. LENDING TO BORROWERS IN EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC,
BY SECTOR, FISCAL YEARS 1988-97
(millions of us dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                       FY88-92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Agriculture                   892.7   889.3  1,570.4   373.0  1,284.9  1,265.0
Education                     356.8   478.9   436.6   526.5   437.9   645.0
Electric power and other energy   822.3   760.0  1,048.5  1,383.0  1,243.0  1,131.4
Environment                    34.9   500.0   381.5   308.1   170.7       -
Finance                       306.3   457.0   100.0      -        49.0    28.4
Health, population and nutrition    91.8   200.4   160.0   242.2   296.0    58.9
Industry                     -256.5     -        -      175.0   217.0    60.0
Mining                         -        -        -       -        35.0    -
Multisector                   277.0   200.0    82.7   167.0   130.0       -
Oil and gas                    49.8   225.0   266.0   245.0       -       -
Public sector management       83.5   173.0      -       88.0             -
Social sector                  -        -        9.7   267.5    40.0      -
Telecommunications            155.9   134.0   250.0   325.0       -       -
Transportation                754.4  1,132.2  1,380.0  1,032.5   916.9  1,103.6
Urban development             191.5   110.0   349.0   486.0   542.7   405.1
Water supply and sanitation   135.4   310.0      -       75.0    57.0   168.6
Total                        4,408.7  5,569.8  6,034.4  5,693.8  5,420.1  4,866.0
Of which: IBRD             3,588.4  4,404.8  4,623.8  4,592.6  4,252.2  4,074.4
IDA               820.3  1,165.0  1,410.6  1,101.2  1,167.9   791.6
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
- Zero.
country. Thirty-seven operations were approved,  Infrastructure needs loom large
compared to forty-six in fiscal 1996.        The public sector's provision of infrastructure
In addition to Bank and IDA operations, the  has been a major contributor to East Asia's past
Bank's private sector affiliate, the International    success. But if rapid modernization is to be sus-
Finance Corporation (IFC), invested in thirty-  tained, international engagement deepened, and
three operations during the year for a total of  the challenges to rising urbanization met, large
$1,359 million, compared to the thirty-nine  infrastructure investments in power, transport,
investments totaling $2,601 million in fiscal  water, and telecommunications are needed. In
1996. The Multilateral Investment Guarantee  an increasingly competitive global economic en-
Agency (MIGA) issued 10 guarantee contracts  vironment, efficient infrastructure services be-
for more than $70 million in coverage during  come a more important ingredient to success;
the year, facilitating some $1 billion in foreign  infrastructure bottlenecks not only stifle
investment in the region.                  growth, raise costs, and hurt competitiveness
but also reduce people's quality of life. East
SECTION THREE EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC  49



Asia's infrastructure needs are vast-an esti-        * support for countrywide policy and institu-
mated $1.2 trillion to $1.5 trillion over the next   tional frameworks;
decade. These needs far exceed the financial and     * support for sectoral reforms-legal, regula-
managerial capacity of the public sector and can   tory, and judicial;
only be efficiently met if the private sector's      * support for regional activities that promote
role is increased significantly and infrastructure    information sharing and exchange.
provision is commercialized. Private sector in-      Direct support for creating a policy and insti-
vestment accounts for at most 10 percent of       tutional framework conducive to private provi-
today's infrastructure investment in East Asia,    sion of infrastructure at the country level during
yet there is growing recognition that private in-    fiscal 1997 included design of reforms for the
vestment should increase to some 30 percent       power and transport sectors in China, Indonesia,
over the medium term. The binding constraint      and Vietnam; water supply policy improvements
to reaching this goal is the lack of bankable     in Indonesia and the Philippines; and road and
projects. Creating a pool of bankable projects     urban transport sector reforms in China and the
requires a combination of political will and ag-  Philippines. Support for reforms necessary to fa-
gressive policy and institutional reforms that    cilitate overall private investment in infrastruc-
will develop competitive market structures,       ture was provided jointly by the Bank, IFC, MIGA,
sound regulatory regimes, price reforms, risk-     and FIAS and included legal and judicial system
mitigation measures, competitive and transpar-     reforms in China and Indonesia; regulations for
ent contracting procedures, and effective financ-   transparent bidding and clearer laws in China,
ing mechanisms.                                    Indonesia, and the Philippines; and advice and
Many countries are moving aggressively to-      technical assistance to develop capital [bond)
ward private provision of infrastructure on their    markets in China and the Philippines. The Bank-
own initiatives; nevertheless, infrastructure de-  financed Shanghai Waigaoqiao power project in
velopment remains a central element of World       China includes innovative mechanisms to tap
Bank support for the region, accounting for       domestic share and bond markets, and an ongo-
about half of annual commitments, or some $3      ing BOT (build, operate, transfer) bridge project
billion a year. In addition to individual project  in Wuhan involves some innovative work with
loans, the Bank helps to create an environment     IFC. These country-level efforts were comple-
for more effective public-private partnership in  mented by regionwide activities to help coun-
nearly every East Asian country. This effort in-  tries share their experiences, broaden and
volves interventions from various parts of the     deepen political support for reforms, and de-
Bank at three levels:                             velop a regional momentum for developing a
FIGURE 3-4 EastAsia and the Pacific: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector,
FiscalYear 1997
Industry, i %                                       Health, population and nutrition, 1%
Water supply and sanitation, 4%                                  Finance,%
Urban development, 8%
Agriculture, 26%
Education, 313% -'< --
Elertric power and other energy, 23%
TransporRtation, 231
50 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



TABLE 3-5. WORLD BANK COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND NET
TRANSFERS IN EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC, FISCAL YEARS 1992-97
(millions of us dollars)
China              Indonesia             Vietnam            Total region
start               start                start                start
Item               1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97.
Undisbursed
commitments    10,294               4,882                1,027               19,734
Commitments            2,815  17,553          915   7,268          349   1,591        4,866  33,031
Gross
disbursements         2,128  11,433         916   6,398          247    448          4,138  24,692
Repayments               366   1,747        1,501   6,225            1      4         3,073  16,123
Net
disbursements         1,762   9,686         -585    173          246    444          1,065   8,568
Interest and charges     547   2,489          752   5,148            3      7          1,928  12,282
Net transfer           1,215   7,197       -1,337  -4,975          243    437          -863  -3,714
NOTE: The countries shown in the table are those with the largest borrowings of Bank funds duringfiscal 1996-97.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding
a. Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included through fiscal 1996.
new public-private partnership (see box 3-2). A       port them as they move into new jobs, and man-
special unit was formed in the Elast Asia and Pa-    age the decline of "sunset" industries. The Bank
cific regional office of the Bank to focus on pro-    is helping a number of countries build flexible
moting the private sector's involvement in infra-    vocational and science education and responsive
structure provision in the region.                    secondary and higher education systems. The
regional office, together with the Development
Poverty and inequality persist, structural            Economics staff, have begun collaborative
change puts others at risk                            research on managing labor and upgrading
The fast-growing East Asian economies have          workers' skills.
been exemplars of relatively equitable and rapid         But as they tackle these emerging issues,
poverty reduction (see figure 3-5). Nevertheless,     countries must continue to give priority to rural
the region is home to some 350 million poor           development, provide broad-based social services,
people. Concern about increasing income in-           including education, and target help to those
equalities in China and Thailand, and over inequi-  at risk of being left out of rapid growth, espe-
table distribution of the fruits of rapid growth      cially in those countries with growing regional
throughout the region, is growing. The region         disparities. They will also require strongly com-
faces rapid urbanization, formalization of labor      petitive and transparent market structures to
markets, and an aging population, all raising new     ensure efficient allocation of resources and to
challenges and posing new risks as people's earlier  minimize corruption.
informal ways of supporting the sick, disabled,         Reducing poverty remained at the core of Bank
unemployed, and elderly fall into decline and the   assistance in fiscal 1997, especially in its support
need for formal mechanisms increases. Rising          of rural development, education, and health ser-
integration, via international trade and capital      vices and in targeted actions for those at risk of
flows, and technological change are leading to        being overlooked. The World Bank-financed,
rapid shifts in patterns of production that necessi-  multisectoral Qinba Poverty Reduction project,
tate upgrading workers' skills. As unskilled jobs     for example, will bring some 2.3 million of the
get relocated abroad, countries must design edu-    poorest rural Chinese above the poverty line.
cation and training systems that provide workers        Education and health are growing priorities in
with flexible skills, provide mechanisms to sup-      the Bank's East Asia portfolio, accounting for
SECTION THREE EAST ASIA AND PACIFIc 51



TABLE 3-6. OPERATIONS APPROVED DURING FISCALYEAR 1997,
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                Date of Approval  Maturities    SDR         US$
Cambodia
Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project           Feb 28, 1997    2007/2036    18.80       27.00
Disease Control and Health Development Project        Dec 24, 1996    2007/2036    20.60        30.40
China
Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Development Project: Stage II  Jun 24,1997    2003/2017      n.a.      430.00
Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project                       Jun 24, 1997    2003/2017     n.a.      400.00
National Rural Water Supply Project                    Jun 23, 1997    2007/2032    51.40       70.00
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project              Jun 11, 1997    2007/2032   108.50      150.00
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project              Jun 10, 1997    2003/2017     n.a.       30.00
Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project                       Jun 3, 1997    2003/2017     n.a.      400.00
Inner Mongolia (Tuoketuo) Thermal Power Project       May 27, 1997    2003/2017      n.a.      400.00
Fourth Basic Education Project                        May 27, 1997    2007/2032    61.50        85.00
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project         May 13, 1997    2003/2017      n.a.      120.00
Second National Highway Project                       Dec 17, 1996    2003/2017      n.a.      400.00
Second Xinjiang Highway Project                        Oct 10, 1996    2002/2016     n.a.      300.00
Vocational Education Reform Project                     Jul 2, 1996    2001/2016     n.a.       10.00
Vocational Education Reform Project                     Jul 2, 1996    2006/2031    13.80       20.00
Indonesia
Renewable Energy Small Power Project                   Jun 24, 1997    2001/2012     n.a.       66.40
Quality of Undergraduate Education Project             Jun 17,1997    2001/2012      n.a.       71.20
BEPEKA Audit Modernization Project                     Jun 17,1997    2001/2012      n.a.       16.40
Bali Urban Infrastructure Project                      May 6, 1997    2000/2012      n.a.      110.00
Solar Home Systems Project                             Jan 28, 1997    2002/2017     n.a.       20.00
Intensified Iodine Deficiency Control Project          Dec 17, 1996    2000/2012     n.a.       28.50
Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project             Nov 21, 1996    2003/2017      n.a.      155.00
Railway Efficiency Project                            Nov 21, 1996    2002/2017      n.a.      105.00
Second Village Infrastructure Project                  Oct 10, 1996    2002/2016     n.a.      140.10
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project             Sep 17, 1996    2002/2016     n.a.       98.00
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project    Jul 2, 1996    2002/2016     n.a.      104.00
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Third Highway Improvement Project                       Apr 8, 1997    2007/2037    34.60       48.00
Mongolia
Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit        May 1, 1997    2007/2037     7.20        10.00
Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical
Assistance Project                                    May 1, 1997    2007/2037    1.50         2.00
Philippines
Third Elementary Education Project                    Nov 26, 1996    2003/2017      n.a.      113.40
Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project       Nov 26, 1996    2003/2017      n.a.       50.00
Water Resources Development Project                   Nov 26, 1996    2003/2017      n.a.       58.00
Second Subic Bay Freeport Project                     Nov 26,1996    2003/2017       n.a.       60.00
Thailand
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project        Jun 24, 1997    2001/2013     n.a.      145.00
Universities Science and Engineering Education Project  May 13, 1997    2001/2012    n.a.      143.40
Distribution Automation and Reliability
Improvement Project                                   Jul 16, 1996    2001/2012    n.a.      100.00
Vietnam
Water Supply Project                                   Jun 26, 1997    2007/2037    71.30       98.61
Second Highway Rehabilitation Project                  Mar 27, 1997    2007/2037   136.30      195.60
Rural Transport Project                                Dec 23, 1996    2007/2036    37.80       55.00
Total                                                                         563.30      4,866.01
n.a. = not applicable (IBRD loan).
52   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



13 percent of total lending to the region in fiscal   Protecting the environment: a policy priority
1997. Education projects focused particularly on      East Asia's successful economic development
quality at the primary and lower secondary levels  took a heavy toll on the environment, with
and on targeting the poorest children. The Philip-  rapid loss of forests and pollution of both sur-
pines' Third Elementary Education Project, for      face and groundwater. "Brown" environmental
example, targeted 94 percent of project costs to-   issues are increasingly important, as severe air
ward reaching children in twenty poor provinces.   and water pollution problems in Bangkok,
And China's Basic Education Project, aimed          Jakarta, and many of China's major cities attest.
especially at improving girls' education, will ben-   Unless environmental protection becomes a
efit 4.7 million children. Its interventions include   higher policy priority, the costs of ill health and
providing student assistance and secure boarding    declining well-being that result from pollution
facilities for girls and providing female principals   will inhibit economic growth. In fiscal 1997
as role models. Indonesia's Secondary Education    the Bank addressed such problems with support
Project is targeting rural areas and includes alter-   to both China and Indonesia to reverse indus-
native schooling models that allow more poor        trial and urban pollution as well as to address
children and girls to continue their education      concerns of potential loss of biodiversity. And
beyond the elementary level. Health projects        in Indonesia, the Bali Urban Infrastructure
also targeted the poorest. A project in Cambodia,   Project includes an innovative component to
for example, which will help the country de-        protect Bali's unique cultural heritage through
crease the prevalence of preventable diseases,      strengthening conservation capacity and imple-
also helps shift health systems so they reach the    menting pilot conservation projects, establishing
community level.
FIGURE 3-5 Poverty in EastAsia: Percent of Population below the Poverty Line
100
v   99
80                     85
60
40
20
0                                                    8
East Asia East Asia  China  Indonesia Philippines Thailand  Malaysia  Vietnam  Lao PDR  Mongolia  Papua
(excl. China)                                                               New
Guinea
Note: Based on the international poverty line of $1 per person per day per capita at 1985 prices.
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
SECTION THREE  EAST AStA AND PACIFIC  53



an inventory of historic places, and installing         Policy advice and lending for water supply
signage in Indonesian and other languages at         and sanitation increased in fiscal 1997, with
heritage sites.                                      lending growing from $57 million in fiscal 1996
Shandong province, one of the engines of           to $169 million in fiscal 1997; and "brown" en-
China's economic growth, now also features           vironmental and resettlement concerns are at
some of the heaviest water and air pollution in      the center of the Bank's involvement in infra-
the country. But a Bank-supported multifaceted       structure development. Regional and global
intervention is helping clean up and promote         environmental issues, including water pollution,
policy changes that will address the problems.       protecting the ozone layer, reducing acid rain,
The project also will bring water from the Yel-      and reducing carbon dioxide emissions, are
low River to protect rapidly depleting and pol-      being tackled through Global Environment
luted groundwater resources and will demon-          Facility (GEF) grants such as those to provide
strate ways to improve district heating systems.     fuel-efficient boilers in China and to provide
BOX 3-2. INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE PRIVATE PARTICIPATION IN
INFRASTRUCTURE IN EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
To help develop regionwide support and momen-   the Bank/Fund Annual Meetings in October 1996.
tum for enhanced private participation in infrastruc-    This forum allowed the Jakarta seminar partici-
ture, the Bank organized or supported three major  pants to continue their discussion and for more pri-
regionwide fora in fiscal 1997. All three facilitated  vate sector executives to join in discussions with
high-level dialogue between public sector officials and    country officials. A summary report on the Jakarta
business executives. They exemplify new nonlending  seminar was distributed widely.' In light of the suc-
products the Bank is developing to complement      cess of these events, the Bank is planning a similar
country-specific work and to respond to borrower  forum at the 1997 Annual Meetings in Hong Kong.
and private sector needs.                            Throughout fiscal 1997, Bank staff supported the
In September 1996 the Bank and Indonesia orga-    senior officials' working group charged with develop-
nized a high-level summit in Jakarta where twenty-  ing an action agenda for the Asia-Pacific Economic
eight ministers from eighteen countries, other     Cooperation (APEc). They prepared working papers
policymakers, and over fifty senior business execu-  for discussion at three meetings of officials from the
tives, together with iFc, MIGA, Bank, and ADB staff,  eighteen member economies as well as at a public-
participated in three days of roundtable discussions.  private dialogue held in Seattle, Washington. A
Participants discussed both the successes and chal-  framework developed by Bank staff provided the ba-
lenges Indonesia faces-by inviting private invest-  sis for an action agenda formulated by the working
ment in infrastructure-and exchanged views on the    group and endorsed by the economic ministers. In
constraints the private sector faces. Broad consensus  parallel, the Bank was asked to provide support to
was reached on both the need and potential for in-  the APEC Business Forum, a newly created group of
creasing the share of private financing of infrastruc-  some 450 chief executives from the APEC economies.
ture in East Asia from today's roughly 10 percent of    The associated APEC Business Advisory Council sup-
total investment to about 30 percent toward the end  ported the adoption of an action agenda during its
of the century. The binding constraint is not in-  meeting with the APEC leaders. The agenda was en-
adequate financing but a lack of bankable projects.  dorsed by the Subic Bay Communique, which called
Participants discussed specific measures needed to in-    on ministers to work with the private sector and in-
crease the supply of bankable projects while meeting  ternational institutions like the World Bank to for-
societal concerns and asked the Bank to assist both  mulate concrete follow-up steps.
regionwide and country-specific efforts to develop ac-
tion plans to achieve those measures.
tion plans to achieve those measures.          1. World Bank. 1996. "Frontiers of the Public-Private Interface in
The Jakarta seminar was followed by a roundtable   East Asia's Infrastructure: Report on a High Level Conference held
public-private dialogue in Washington, D.C., during    in Jakarta, Indonesia, September 2-4, 1996.'Washington, D.C.
54   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



photovoltaic devices to generate electricity in
rural Indonesia.
Developing the institutions of
market economies
Strengthening the institutional basis for mar-
ket economies, an overriding issue for econo-
mies in transition, is also a major question for
the region's market economies. Sound market                                                                        ___
economies need efficient financial systems,                                                            _
sound structures for corporate governance and
industrial relations, and well-functioning gov-
ernmental institutions. EDI offered training to 
support improvements in governance, including 
using client surveys to judge the quality of gov--__
ernment services and establishing deliberation
councils to build consensus around policy                                             _________
change. State enterprise reform and financial
sector development are especially important in                                                               a
China, Mongolia, and Vietnam. State-directed
lending, political pressures, and poor lending
practices are still common in the region, and-
relative to their income level--many countries
have institutionally poorly developed banking                    _5_-_______=
systems. Solving these structural problems and
building more robust banking systems are im-                        -777
portant throughout the region. The Bank is
providing policy advice and technical assistance
as well as lending services to many East Asia
countries to help build and sustain efficient in-
stitutions. An example is the new partnership
initiated this year with the government of                                                      -- ----
Singapore. Under this partnership, managed by
EDI, courses in strategic banking and environ-____
mental management are provided to clients         _______________:_--
from East and South Asia, using Singaporean               -                       __-:---
technical and financial resources. The banking     Infrastructure remains a central aspect of World Bank
course is designed specifically for China's most   support to East Asian countries
senior bank officials and is offered at the
Singapore Institute of Banking and Finance. It
will be followed by a round of training for other    Enhancing the regional portfolio
senior banking officials in China itself The envi-  In fiscal 1997, significant management atten-
ronmental management program will cover           tion was devoted to further improve the region's
urban-industrial issues and coastal-marine issues    already strong portfolio. Key portfolio perfor-
and will target senior and mid-level policy-      mance indicators are reviewed twice a year, and
makers from Asia. It is expected that the pro-    action plans are prepared to improve problem
gram will offer up to eight courses each year.    projects within a six- to twelve-month period. A
portfolio improvement plan (PIP) with specific,
measurable targets was introduced in February
1996 to meet three aims: increase the focus on
SECTIONTHREE  EASTASIAAND PACIFIc  55



quality-at-entry; improve the quality of the ex-  sure that the small Pacific island states are not
isting portfolio, with targets set to reduce prob-    left behind in an era of rapid change in trade
lem projects and increase disbursements; and in-   and technology. The project, the Global Knowl-
crease the emphasis on learning from experience   edge Revolution: Stakes and Opportunities for
through more systematic review and better        the Pacific Islands, will involve a regional over-
design of implementation completion reports.     view; country-level studies and workshops to
assess opportunities and constraints to knowl-
Emphasizing client orientation                   edge management; 'virtual" conferences via the
Getting closer to clients has been key to improv-   Internet; and follow-up support for pilot appli-
ing effectiveness. Following a review of the Bank's    cations in distance education, telemedicine, and
experience with the region's smaller member      commercial uses. In each country the Bank team
countries, a new "country management unit" for  is collaborating with governments, the business
Papua New Guinea (PNG) and eight other Pacific   community, academics, religious groups, and
island countries was established to improve the fo-   NGOS and at the regional level with agencies
cus of support for these smaller island states and  such as UNDP that are supporting information
enhance the Bank's contribution to their develop-    access and innovative applications.
ment efforts. The unit has given a high priority to  The Bank, MIGA, and IFC are working more
establishing close and effective working relation-  closely on many activities. The CAS for Indone-
ships with regional agencies and other donors-in    sia, for example, was prepared jointly with IFc,
order to avoid duplication of effort while maximiz-   and the Bank and IFc together provided advisory
ing opportunities for synergy-and improving the    assistance to the Philippines on promoting pri-
effectiveness of aid flows to the countries.     vate participation in the Manila Water Utility
Experience in the region has shown that core  and Sanitation Project.
functions, such as accounting, disbursement,       More Bank research in the region is being un-
procurement, and environment/social services, are    dertaken in partnership with local research in-
particularly efficient when provided locally. There-   stitutes and researchers. Work on private capital
fore, responsibility and resources for these func-  flows and increased financial integration, for
tions and for supervision have increasingly been  example, was undertaken with the Asian Devel-
shifted to Bank resident missions throughout East    opment Bank (ADB), and a seminar on pension
Asia and the Pacific.4 This trend will continue. Also,  reform was undertaken in collaboration with
to better respond to clients needs, a business inno-   the regional association of social securities agen-
vation was introduced to set service standards,  cies. Generating and sharing knowledge among
which are monitored using a Web page.            research and policy institutes outside is comple-
mented by a broader program of partnerships
Expanding collaboration and partnerships         within the Bank Group-between the regional
Collaboration with NGOs was expanded in       office, the Development Economics vice presi-
fiscal 1997, with NGOS participating in the      dency, EDI, and other parts of the Bank. The aim
preparation of the CAS for Cambodia and with    is to reach out to governments, the private sec-
more frequent and systematic consultation with   tor, and civil society through workshops and
NGOs in economic and sector work. NGOS in PNG,    seminars. Such programs will be built on to
for example, were involved in preparing the      facilitate a more intense exchange of ideas be-
country's poverty assessment, and in Lao PDR, NGOS   tween the Bank Group and institutions in the
collaborated on preparing the rural infrastructure    region so that the policy and research agenda is
report. Collaboration between the Bank and envi-   jointly shaped and the results of research are
ronmental NGOS was particularly notable on re-   fully shared and discussed by all stakeholders.
gional environmental strategies and community
cleanup programs in large Asian cities.
In partnership with the South Pacific Coin-
arn     with spo  from Austr alia        4. The Bank has resident missions in China, Indonesia, the
mission ant with support from Australia, the    Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam and liaison offices in
Bank launched a new initiative designed to en-  Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Papua New Guinea.
56  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



SOUTH ASIA
Reflecting the region's recent re-    double-digit inflation-and the   growth of manufactured ex-
fonns, South Asian economies    widening current account         ports and increased foreign in-
fared well in 1996, with most   deficit impeded growth and       vestment flows are good news
countries achieving healthy GDP    poverty reduction.            for South Asia, as is evidence
and export growth rates, im-      Despite faltering perfor-      of cooperation among coun-
proved creditworthiness indica-    mance in Nepal and Pakistan,    tries in the region. India and
tors, and increased foreign in-  the region's exports grew in    Nepal, for example, recently
vestment. Despite these         1996 by 7.5 percent. Yet even    signed a treaty to integrate
achievements, the region still  after rapid growth throughout    their development plans for
contributes only 1 percent of   the 1 990s, South Asia generates  the Mahakali River, and India
world trade, attracts less foreign    only 1 percent of world trade,    and Bangladesh have agreed
investment than other regions,  and its exports per capita are   on arrangements to share the
and is home to 40 percent of the    six times lower than the aver-    water from the Ganges River
world's poor. In fiscal 1997 the  age for developing countries.  and to restore rail links that
World Bank helped address       The region's creditworthiness    have been severed since 1965.
these shortfalls by supporting the   indicators continued to im-  Under the auspices of the
region's reform agenda-and in-   prove, and the region maintains   South Asian Association for
vesting in its people while im-  its impressive record of debt   Regional Cooperation (SAARC),
proving the effectiveness of Bank    servicing, having kept arrears  countries took steps to liberal-
operations. This was accom-     low and avoiding debt restruc-   ize intraregional trade and
plished by moving closer to cli-    turing over the past decade.  held discussions to facilitate
ents, facilitating more participa-  Newly liberalized investment  further cooperation on trade,
tion by local people in project  regimes continued to attract   infrastructure, communica-
design and implementation, and    foreign investors to the region,   tions, and the use of natural
introducing innovations to im-  particularly India. In 1996, net   resources, especially water, as
prove new and ongoing projects.    capital flows to South Asia   a means to accelerate poverty
reached $17 billion ($1 1 billion   reduction.
South Asia's output grew by    from private sources), up from    However, several factors
over 6 percent in 1996, with    $9 billion the previous year, as    constrained the region's per-
GDP growth expected to reach    equity flows rebounded from      formance. Some, such as
6.8 percent in India, 6 percent   the effects of the 1994-95     the ongoing conflict in
in Nepal, and 5.5 percent in    Mexican crisis. The region at-   Afghanistan and the civil strife
Bangladesh. In Pakistan, poor   tracted 6 percent of the total   in Sri Lanka, are political in
agricultural performance con-    flows to developing countries   nature, but in many cases the
tributed to lowering growth to   in 1996, up from 4 percent in    incomplete reform agenda has
3.1 percent, while in Sri Lanka,    1995. Foreign direct invest-  hampered growth, develop-
civil strife and poor weather   ment to South Asian countries    ment, and poverty reduction.
conditions lowered growth to    rose, too, growing from $0.5       Reducing poverty, which re-
3.7 percent. Progress on the    billion per year during 1990-    quires high and sustained
fiscal front was mixed; India,  92 to $2.6 billion in 1996. But   growth, remains the Bank's
for example, reduced its cen-   at 0.5 percent of the region's   major goal in South Asia.
tral govemment fiscal deficit   GDP, far lower than other re-    While the incidence of pov-
from 5.5 to 5 percent of GDP,   gions, this underscores sizable    erty has declined since the
and its 1997 budget continues    unexploited opportunities on    1980s, the number of poor
to build on earlier reforms. In    the part of investors.        people has increased. More
Pakistan, however, the inability  Reforms initiated in the       than 40 percent of the region's
to cut the fiscal deficit sub-  1990s enjoy broad political      people live below the dollar-
stantially-and its resulting    support, and the resulting rapid   a-day poverty line; most live
SECTION THREE SOUTH ASIA 57



in rural areas, are illiterate, and depend on sub-    thus increase the region's growth rate in a sus-
sistence agriculture or low-skill wages for their   tainable manner. And because social indicators
livelihood.                                remain weak, priority was given to comple-
menting the reform effort with programs to de-
World Bank assistance strategy             velop the region's human capital.
The Bank's fiscal 1997 assistance strategy for  World Bank loans and International Develop-
South Asia reflects the main goal of its clients in   ment Association credits approved by the ex-
the region: reducing poverty. To help achieve  ecutive directors in fiscal 1997 totaled $2,011.6
this goal, the Bank aimed to provide better-  million, compared to $2,929.1 million in fiscal
quality services and innovative and efficient  1996. Nineteen operations were approved,
programs by working with partners and involv-    compared to twenty-one in fiscal 1996. Table
ing broad community participation. The main  3-7 shows the sectoral distribution of lending to
prongs of the Bank's strategy focused on helping   the region for the 1988-97 period. Table 3-8
countries improve their fiscal situation and  compares commitments, disbursements and net
push ahead with reforms that will increase sav-   transfers to the region for fiscal years 1992-97,
ing and investment, attract foreign capital, and  and table 3-9 shows operations in the South
TABLE 3-7. LENDING TO BORROWERS IN SOUTH ASIA, BY SECTOR,
FISCAL YEARS 1988-97
(millions of us dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                       FY88-92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Agriculture                   684.0   334.9   387.8   551.3   420.6   409.0
Education                     272.0   339.0   220.0   423.7   499.8       -
Electric power and other energy   813.1   770.0   230.0   250.0   700.0    24.2
Environment                    97.6    28.8    14.7   168.0   263.9    64.8
Finance                       221.1    65.8      -      916.0   205.0   105.0
Health, population and nutrition   220.0   327.0   233.1   257.9   376.7   593.8
Industry                      255.7   190.0   250.3       3.2     -       -
Mining                         -        12.0     -       -        63.0
Multisector                   168.8   503.5              -        -
Oil and gas                   360.0     -        -      120.8     -
Public sector management       33.0     -      296.8     -        92.0    31.7
Social Sector                  11.5   500.0      -       -        -
Telecommunications             22.4     -        -       -        35.0    -
Transportation                317.1   137.0   491.3      -        -      684.5
Urban development             161.5     -      246.0    39.0    21.5      -
Water supply and sanitation   104.3   208.2      -      275.8   251.6    98.6
Total                        3,742.2  3,416.2  2,370.0  3,005.7  2,929.1  2,011.6
Of which: IBRD             2,006.1  1,145.0   474.0  1,584.8  1,161.6   626.5
IDA              1,736.1  2,271.2  1,896.0  1,420.9  1,767.5  1,385.1
Note: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
-Zero.
58  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



FIGURE 3-6 South Asia: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector, Fiscal Year 1997
Public saetr management, 2%
Environment, 3% -____ _______
Water supply and sanitation, 5% -Fectr c power and other energy, 1%
Finance, 5% -----------
Transportation, 34%
Agriculture, 20%   --* i---.--.-.
Health, population and nutrition, 30%
Asia (SAs) region approved by the Executive        create large fiscal burdens. In fiscal 1997, at the
Board during fiscal 1997 by country. In addition    request of the state authorities, the Bank com-
to Bank and IDA operations, the Bank's private     pleted evaluations of the financial situations
sector affiliate, the International Finance Corpo-    of Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, and
ration (IFC), invested in twenty-nine operations   Karnataka to identify policy options for imple-
during the year for a total of $409 million, com-    menting a sustainable fiscal strategy.
pared to the twenty-nine investments totaling        To better support its clients' reform efforts,
$575.4 million in fiscal 1996. The Multilateral   the Bank improved its nonlending services by
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) issued six    speeding up response time, broadening the dis-
guarantees contracts for $38 million during the    semination of analysis, and strengthening col-
year for projects in Pakistan and Bangladesh.      laboration with other multilateral organizations
to build partnerships and reduce overlap. The
Improving the economic environment                 widely disseminated Bangladesh report' is an
The Bank is supporting fiscal reform tailored to    example of a timely intervention designed to
country-specific circumstances. In Pakistan, for   provide the newly elected government with a
example, analytical support for the government's   set of policy choices for reducing poverty
new agricultural tax system was provided, and      through rapid and sustainable growth. Far more
in partnership with the British Overseas Devel-    attention was paid this year to making the re-
opment Administration, a public expenditure        sults of economic and sector work known to a
review was prepared to give the government a       broad audience, including parliamentarians, the
sound basis for setting its fiscal 1998 budget. In  press, academia, and business groups. To
collaboration with the Asian Development Bank    complement this effort, the South Asia regional
and Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation          office and EDI joined forces to disseminate inter-
Fund (OECF), the Bank continues to evaluate        national best practices in an ambitious program
Pakistan's public investment program annually      of activities ranging from a conference on
to protect high-priority social Spending from      competitive advantage in a global economy,
budget cuts.                                      to small workshops on resettlement policies,
In India the Bank is assisting reform of state   and establishing securities markets. A series of
governments. About 50 percent of India's infra-    EDI-supported workshops aimed at helping
structure spending and about 90 percent of so-     strengthen financial markets provided training
cial sector spending are undertaken by the
states. And state subsidies, for example, in
states.Ariffstand watsidier, chargesample, in5. World Bank. 1996. "Bangladesh-An Agenda for Action."
power tanffs and water charges for irrigation      Washington, D.C. June.
SECTION THREE  SOUTH ASIA  59



in diversification of financial instruments, con-     ing transparent procurement, and provincial
tainment of market risk, management of trea-          education and health projects are helping de-
sury assets, and internationalization for stock ex-    velop management information systems on
change officials and treasury and fund managers.      which rational choices for school and clinic
As the first wave of reforms that started in       locations and expenditure decisions are based.
the early 1 990s gained roots, the Bank helped          Private sector development. Fostering private
countries shift the focus to a second generation      sector growth is key to reducing poverty and
of reforms. In India this involved addressing re-     sustaining growth. To this end, the Bank is help-
form at the state level, and in Bangladesh and        ing Pakistan and Bangladesh prepare financial
Pakistan it involved addressing governance is-        sector reforms and India to broaden ongoing re-
sues, which, though long present, have become         forms to include regional rural banks. There are
key constraints to reform. Governance issues          roles for the Bank, IFC, and MIGA in promoting
were addressed through nonlending services,           private sector development, and often programs
such as the Bangladesh report, "Government            are undertaken collaboratively. In Pakistan,
that Works,"6 prepared in close consultation          where a joint Bank-IFc working group has been
with civil society and the government. It sets        established to coordinate private sector devel-
out a phased approach to public sector reform         opment, the Bank and IFc are collaborating on
tailored to the country's political and economic      power sector development through ongoing
realities. The report was translated into Bangla      loans and partial risk guarantees. Since its first
and disseminated widely to parliamentarians,          guarantees for investments in Pakistan were is-
NGOs, and academia, and a healthy national de-        sued in 1992, MIGA has issued 25 guarantee con-
bate ensued. Improving governance was also            tracts for investments worth more than $155
addressed within ongoing projects. Pakistan's         million in coverage outstanding in the country's
Financial Reporting and Auditing Project, for         power, banking and manufacturing sectors. MIGA
example, is helping the authorities strengthen        has also issued coverage for agribusiness and
their accounting and financial systems, enhance
accountability, and improve capacity for eco-          6. World Bank. 1996. "Bangladesh: Government that
nomic policymaking and management. Ongoing            Works-Reforming the Public Sector." Report No.
Bank-financed projects in Pakistan are promot-         15182 BD. Washington, D.C. March.
TABLE 3-8. WORLD BANK COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND NET
TRANSFERS IN SOUTH ASIA, FISCAL YEARS 1992-97
(millions of us dollars)
Bangladesh            India               Pakistan           Total region
start               start                start                start
Item               1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97X  1997  1997 1992-97a
Undisbursed
commitments     1,402               9,506                2,774               14,441
Commitments              321   1,762        1,530  11,469           85  2,745          2,012  16,731
Gross
disbursements          315   1,763         1,563  10,556         645   3,597         2,673  16,989
Repayments                57    230          1,070   5,781         260   1,257         1,411   7,393
Net
disbursements          258   1,543          493   4,775          385   2,339         1,262   9,596
Interest and charges      45    248           790   5,024          222   1,289         1,079   6,691
Net transfer             213   1,286         -297   -249           163   1,050          183   2,905
NOTE: The countries shown in the table are those with the largest borrowings of Bank funds during fiscal 1996-97.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Disbursements from the iDA Special Fund are included through fiscal 1996.
60   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



TABLE 3-9. OPERATIONS APPROVED DURING FISCAL YEAR 1997, SOUTH ASIA
Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                  Date of Approval    Maturities   SDR         US$
Bangladesh
Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project                        Dec 19, 1996    2007/2036    51.00        80.30
Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement
and Maintenance Project                                 Dec 19, 1996    2007/2036    91.20       133.00
Jute Sector Adjustment Credit                            Nov 14, 1996    2004/2034      2.00        2.90
Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project                 Sep 17, 1996    2006/2036    72.70       105.00
India
Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project                      Jun 17, 1997    2003/2017      n.a.     350.00
Malaria Control Project                                   Jun 12, 1997    2007/2032   119.20      164.80
Reproductive and Child Health Project                    May 28, 1997    2007/2032   179.50       248.30
Third Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project                  May 20, 1997    2003/2017      n.a.      175.00
Third Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project                  May 20, 1997    2007/2032   108.10       150.00
Andhra Pradesh Hazard Mitigation and Emergency
Cyclone Recovery Project                                 May 6, 1997    2003/2017    72.10       100.00
Andhra Pradesh Hazard Mitigation and Emergency
Cyclone Recovery Project                                 May 6, 1997    2007/2032      n.a.       50.00
Rural Women's Development and Empowerment Project        Mar 27, 1997    2007/2032    13.50        19.50
Tuberculosis Control Project                              Jan 30, 1997    2007/2032    98.40      142.40
Environmental Management Capacity Building
Technical Assistance Project                            Dec 23, 1996    2007/2031    34.70        50.00
States' Road Infrastructure Development
Technical Assistance Project                             Dec 5, 1996    2002/2016      n.a.       51.50
Ecodevelopment Project                                     Sep 5, 1996    2007/2031    19.50       28.00
Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project                 Sep 3, 1996    2006/2036    12.80        18.28
Pakistan
Improvement to Financial Reporting andAuditing Project   Sep 17, 1996    2007/2031    20.10        28.80
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project     Jul 11, 1996    2006/2031    38.50       56.00
Sri Lanka
Environmental Action Project I                           Mar 27, 1997    2007/2037    10.70        14.80
Energy Services Delivery Project                         Mar 18, 1997    2007/2037    16.90        24.20
Health Services Project                                  Dec 19, 1996    2007/2036    13.00        18.80
Total                                                                             973.90    2,011.58
n.a. = not applicable (IBRD loan).
banking projects in Bangladesh. And in India,             Roads and Markets Project is improving rural
the Bank and IFC are working closely to promote    transport and trading infrastructure by facilitat-
private sector participation in power distribu-           ing exploitation of the opportunities presented
tion and manufacturing capacity for medical               by the Jamuna Bridge, which will link the
supplies and instruments. In line with a growing          northwest region with the rest of the country.
Bank trend, the next CAS for Inidia will be under-    Local participation is emphasized in the project,
taken jointly by the Bank and IFC. It will elaborate    which is using labor-intensive technologies and
a joint strategy for private sector development.          employing the landless poor and disadvantaged
Infrastructure development. Because good infra-    women. The Bank has long supported efforts to
structure not only provides the basis for private         help South Asia meet its vast energy needs. The
sector growth but helps attract foreign direct in-    Nepal Power Development Fund, under prepa-
vestment, particularly to export-oriented sectors,    ration, will support the identification and evalu-
the Bank is helping to improve the utilization            ation of potential small and medium-size hydro-
and maintenance of roads and to facilitate rural          electric power projects suitable for private
access to markets. Bangladesh's Second Rural              sector funding.
SECTION THREE  SOUTH AsIA   61



more effectively, community participation is be-
ing increased, and the private sector and NGOS
are being encouraged to deliver services. In
India's Malaria Control Project, for example,
community organizations are delivering services
to tribal people who are disproportionately af-
fected by the disease. In Sri Lanka, a Health Sys-
tems project supporting the fights against ma-
_______                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~laria and AIDS useS NGOS to identify and train
=   !i . i    iInPakivolunteers to establish community centers.
India's Tuberculosis Control Project was de-
signed in partnership with the government, the
World Health Organization, the Union Against
Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, and other donors
and supports a significant shift in strategy to
__________                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fight the disease.
In Pakistan, where social indicators, although
Previously excluded from formal credit markets, the  still poor, have improved since the launch of the
poor-and particularly women-are increasinglygoen ntsScaAtinPgrmn192
borrowing small amounts of business start-up funds  government's Social Action Program in 1992,
through microcredit programs.                   the social sector continues to suffer from gover-
nance problems, including political interference
in recruitment and site selection, lack of trans-
parent procurement, and weak accountability.
Rural Development. Because of the importance   The Bank is leading a multidonor effort to de-
of promoting rural growth, the Bank is helping  velop a second phase of the Social Action Pro-
raise commitment for decentralized and partici-   gram and is working closely with the authorities
patory rural development programs that increase   to improve project implementation, strengthen
farm productivity. Pakistan's Private Sector     governance, and encourage greater stakeholder
Groundwater Development Project, for example,  involvement and NGO and private sector partici-
is mobilizing farmers to operate and maintain   pation in service delivery.
groundwater irrigation and new community           Sharp gender disparities continue to constrain
tubewells. To ensure sustainability, Nepal's Rural   economic growth and poverty reduction. In fis-
Water and Sanitation Project, which supports     cal 1997 the Poverty Alleviation Microfinance
water and sanitation schemes for 900 communi-   Project in Bangladesh and the Rural Women De-
ties, includes a community development subcom-  velopment and Empowerment Project in India
ponent to help local people organize water-user    were specifically targeted to broaden poor
groups to identify, design, construct, and main-  women's access to credit and self-employment
tain water schemes. The project was based on les-  opportunities by supporting the institutional
sons learned from a three-year pilot program that  provision of microcredit. By strengthening com-
verified that locally designed and managed       munity links, these projects also contribute to
projects met community needs in a cost-effective   social capital building (see box 3-3).
and sustainable manner.
Improving development effectiveness
Quality investment-the region's people             To improve operational effectiveness,
A key component of the Bank's poverty reduc-  strengthen frontline operations, and respond to a
tion strategy is to develop human capital by fo-    broader development agenda, the South Asia re-
cusing on delivering quality health and nutrition    gional office further increased the role of field
services to underserved areas and expanding and   offices in implementing and managing country
improving basic education, particularly for girls    work programs. Guided by the need to work
and disadvantaged groups. To reach these goals    closer to clients and to understand the political,
62 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



BOX 3-3. BUILDING SOCIAL CAPITAL
The ability of microfinance programs to help the  The Poverty Alleviation and Microfinance Project
poor is well known. Perhaps the most visible is the  in Bangladesh channels funds through a quasi-
highly successful experiment based on mutually li-  governmental organization, the Palli Kharma
able, self-regulating borrower groups of the Grameen  Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), to small and medium-
Bank in Bangladesh. An equally important but less  size NGOS SO they can expand their microcredit pro-
well known development benefit of these programs is    grams. The PKSF, with more than 120 affiliated orga-
their contribution to building social capital-they  nizations, has mobilized 1.2 million poor women into
build relationships, networks, and formal and infor-    small groups, but shortage of funds has limited its
mal institutions that link individuals and help them  reach. India's Rural Women Development and Em-
achieve specific objectives Microfinance institutions also    powerment Project is helping women gain access to
influence how markets operate, and they shape the rela-    credit and increasing their ability to generate income.
tionships between civil society, the state, and markets.  Through thrift and the credit-based Self Help
The poor, and particularly women, tend to be ex-  Groups (SHGS), a system of revolving credit for the
cluded from formal credit markets because they have    benefit of members and based on their own savings
no credit history and lack collateral and because of  has been developed. The project builds on the suc-
the high costs of enforcing contracts and gathering in-    cessful experience with SHGs, the positive response of
formation about small borrowers. By building on    banks to group lending, the increasing opportunities
peer monitoring and trust to substitute for physical  offered by the Panchayati Raj Act-which ensures
collateral, microlending relaxes the constraints on  representation of women in local government-and
poor people's credit while avoiding the problems as-  experience from previous operations. The project is
sociated with indiscriminate credit subsidies and  helping SHGS establish a track record of sound credit
government loans. Because each member stands to    management so they can access group loans from
lose if another member does not comply, cosigning a  lending institutions. The project has a strong capacity-
loan with members of a group creates an incentive  building emphasis and supports a comprehensive
for the group to screen members and monitor their  training program. NGOs have the major responsibil-
actions. Repeated borrowing and repayment creates  ity to form and sustain democratically managed
a credit record, strengthens the links within the  SHGs. The association of mature SHGs is also being
group, and builds up social capital, thus contributing    encouraged to support existing groups and further
to broad-based growth.                            expand the SHG movement.
social, and cultural dimensions of client coun-      have been agreed on with borrowers and incor-
tries better, country managers with full respon-     porated into new lending operations. Ongoing
sibility are now located in client countries.        projects have been retrofitted with similar per-
To provide Bank staff with a deeper perspec-       formance indicators. By using these indicators
tive and understanding of community develop-         on supervision missions, and with greater man-
ment, some operational staff spent two weeks         agement attention to results, the disconnect be-
living in villages in client countries. The first of  tween evaluation of project performance by the
these immersion programs, which took place in        regional office and Operations Evaluation De-
Pakistan, was formulated by the Aga Khan Rural    partment (OED) staff has been virtually elimi-
Support Program and the Balochistan Rural            nated. To foster a stronger implementation cul-
Support Program. Others followed in Sri Lanka        ture, the Bank is insisting on closing projects on
and Bangladesh. In addition to facilitating inter-    schedule and is using midterm reviews to re-
action with local people, the programs exposed       structure slow-disbursing projects. The restruc-
Bank staff to community initiatives such as          turing of Pakistan's social sector has shifted
microcredit and health programs.                     much of the responsibility for project supervi-
Portfolio management has improved in recent    sion, and upstream work has been shifted to the
years as monitorable performance indicators          resident mission where 40 percent of the port-
SECTION THREE  SOUTH ASIA  63



folio is now managed, compared to 30 percent
at the beginning of fiscal 1996.
The Bank is helping clients battle corrupt
practices through project design and supervision
and helping them improve the efficiency and
transparency of procurement under Bank-
financed projects. This effort has been comple-
mented by greater attention to improving the
audit and monitoring functions under Bank-
fnanced projects. The procurement disburse-
ment and audit team in the New Delhi office,
for example, was strengthened to provide in-
country expertise to assist implementing agen-
cies in all aspects of procurement, disburse-
ment, and audit. Similar steps are being taken in
the Bangladesh and Pakistan field offices.
64 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Progress in the transition to  Fiscal deficits were generally  growth for the first time.
market-based economies varies   kept under control, although     Elsewhere, however, expecta-
considerably across the countries   at the price of high tax rates.  tions that the recession would
of Europe and Central Asia, as    These positive results, together   bottom out in 1996 proved
do countries' policy priorities and   with the prospect of member-    premature. In Russia and
resulting economic growth. The  ship in the EU, continue to      Ukraine, output shrank by
objective of eventual membership   encourage the CEE countries   an estimated 6 percent and
in the European Union (EU) uni-  to keep up the reform           8.5 percent, respectively.
fies the challenges of many of the   momentum.                   Policy and legal reforms con-
Central and Eastern Europe        Progress in Albania, Bulgaria,  tinued to be implemented
(CEE) countries, and in fiscal  and Romania has been much        at a slow pace-particularly
1997 the Bank's assistance strat-   more patchy. Continued      in Ukraine-resulting in a
egy for CEE countries focused on    stalling on enterprise and bank-   climate unfriendly to private
supporting them in their prepara-  ing reforms in Bulgaria contrib-  investors and businesses.
tion. Because these countries ben-  uted to deterioration of the   It is against this backdrop
efit from large private financial    economy in 1996, leading to  and to meet the challenges
flows, the Bank's attention is   hyperinflation and macroeco-    ahead that the Bank set its as-
focusing on systemic economic    nomic crisis. The caretaker gov-  sistance strategy for the region
issues, increasingly through    ernment, which took office      in fiscal 1997.
nonlending services. For the coun-   in April 1997, has begun to   The ECA region serves
tries of the Commonwealth of In-  implement a program to stabi-   twenty-seven active borrowing
dependent States (cis) the chal-   lize the situation and start  countries, including Turkey
lenges, and thus the assistance  long-overdue structural re-     and all European and Central
strategy, are different. Here the  forms. In Albania-after con-  Asian transition economies
emphasis is to help countries   siderable success in implement-  except the Federal Republic
make their fiscal adjustment    ing reform in the early years-    of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
more sustainable and efficient,    lax fiscal policies and inatten-    Montenegro). New operations
strengthen law enforcement, basic  tion to the danger of pyramid    increased from sixty-one,
social services, and safety nets,  schemes caused a major politi-   totaling $4,395 million, in fis-
and accelerate implementation of  cal and economic crisis that   cal 1996 to sixty-seven, total-
the numerous market-oriented re-  has dominated 1997. And the    ing $5,055 million, in fiscal
forms that remain.              Romanian situation was typi-     1997, led by a rapid expansion
fied by some growth but         of reconstruction projects in
Progress toward creating mar-  little structural reform until  Bosnia and Herzegovina. Table
ket economies varies widely     a reform-minded government,    3-10 shows the sectoral distri-
across countries in the Europe    elected in November 1996,      bution of lending to the region
and Central Asia region (ECA).    proceeded quickly to take      for the 1988-97 period. In
In 1996 the CEE countries, in-  many previously neglected        Ukraine, new lending commit-
cluding the Baltics, experienced   actions.                      ments in fiscal 1997 tripled to
a third consecutive year of out-  Economic performance also    just under $1 billion, as the
put growth and a fourth year of  differed widely among the CIS7    government began implement-
declining inflation. Strong ad-    in 1996. Armenia experienced    ing reforms across a wide
vances in creditworthiness in   its third consecutive year of    front. Disbursements in-
international capital markets   recovery from a deep recession    creased to $4,453 million in
and a continued appeal to for-    and Georgia and Kyrgyz Re-
eign direct investors enabled   public their second year.        7. Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
the CEE countries to attract    Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan re-   Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz
Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan,
external private financing.     corded positive, albeit low      Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan.
SECTION THREE EUROPE AND CENTRAL AsIA  65



TABLE 3-10. LENDING TO BORROWERS IN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA,
BY SECTOR, FISCAL YEARS 1988-97
(millions of us dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                        FY88-92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Agriculture                    221.6   448.4   502.9   202.0   185.8   771.7
Education                       77.6     -        59.6    40.0      5.0   137.8
Electric power and other energy   297.2    93.0   164.8   191.7   325.4   504.9
Environment                      3.6    77.0    80.0   123.0    30.1        -
Finance                        323.2    55.0   280.0   232.0   638.9   290.3
Health, population and nutrition    71.0    91.0  -      220.4   350.4    95.5
Industry                       184.9     -       375.0     -       -       111.8
Mining                          -        -        -        -      540.8   300.0
Multisector                    461.6  1,245.0   506.3  2000.0   656.8a  1227.0
Oil and gas                     72.0   610.0   691.3   226.3    10.0   135.6
Public.sector management       109.8   335.0   270.0    70.9   505.6   109.1
Social sector                   20.0    67.0    10.9   127.5   212.0   935.2
Telecommunications              54.0    30.0   153.0       -       -
Transportation                 216.2   378.0   352.0   486.0   868.0   312.7
Urban development               40.0   285.0   171.0   418.0    44.3    56.0
Water supply and sanitation    101.6   129.5   109.6   161.0    21.5    67.3
Total                        2,254.3  3,843.9  3,726.4  4,498.8  4,394.6  5,054.8
Of which: IBRD             2,246.1  3,739.5  3,533.3  3,953.8  3,918.2  4,560.9
IDA                  8.2   104.4   193.1   545.0   476.4   493.9
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding. I
- Zero.
a. Includes the refinanced/rescheduled overdue charges of $168 million for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
fiscal 1997, compared to $3,736 million in fis-    million, including first guarantees to Azerbaijan,
cal 1996. Table 3-11 compares commitments,   Georgia, and Romania. MIGA also created the
disbursements and net transfers to the region  special Investment Guarantee Fund for Bosnia
for fiscal years 1992-97. Table 3-12 shows op-  and Herzegovina, sponsored by the EU, to fur-
erations in the ECA region approved by the Ex-    ther facilitate the flow of small and medium-
ecutive Board during fiscal 1997 by country. In    size investments into the country. The Eco-
addition to Bank and IDA operations, the Bank's   nomic Development Institute's (EDI) activities
private sector affiliate, the International Finance   in the region helped strengthen training and ca-
Corporation (IFC), invested in fifty-seven opera-   pacity building in many critical areas of reform.
tions during the year for a total of $1,214 mil-
lion, compared to the forty-two investments to-   Challenges ahead
taling $835 million in fiscal 1996. The Multi-  EU membership now represents the major
lateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) iS-   challenge for many CEE countries. A strategy to
sued ten guarantee contracts for almost $90  achieve the requirements rapidly for participat-
66 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



TABLE 3-11. . WORLD BANK COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND NET
TRANSFERS IN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA, FISCAL YEARS 1992-97
(millions of us dollars)
Romania              Russia              Ukraine           Total region
start               start               start                start
Item              1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97'  1997  1997 1992-97a  1997  1997 1992-97,
Undisbursed
commitments      958                4,723                 512               12,045
Commitments             625   2,361         1,716  8,163          990   2,005        5,055  23,662
Gross
disbursements          182   1,138        2,086   3,795         567   1,071        4,453  16,252
Repayments               14      14           -       -            -      -          1,724  7,681
Net
disbursements          168   1,123        2,086  3,795          567   1,071        2,729   8,571
Interest and charges     61    197           125    287            43     67         1,002   5,458
Net transfer             107    926         1,961   3,508         524   1,004        1,727  3,113
NOTE: The countries shown in the table are those uith the largest borrowings from the World Bank in fiscal 1996-97.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
-Zero.
a. Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included through fiscal 1996.
ing in the single-market and the monetary union,   dation and resolving cross-border issues in infra-
if combined with accelerated privatization, reduc-  structure also remain major challenges. The need
tion of excessive tax burdens, and social security    to reduce pollution in industrial centers, improve
reform, will help to sustain high growth. Financ-    water and sewerage infrastructure, attract invest-
ing necessary environmental investments, how-        ment to integrated energy sectors and pipelines,
ever, will be demanding. And while economic          and manage shared water resources-particularly
recovery has begun to reduce poverty, structural    in Central Asia-are high on the agenda.
shifts are expected to cause pockets of poverty         In Bosnia and Herzegovina the phase of
in regions with declining industries and in remote   emergency reconstruction is coming to an end.
rural areas. Policy reforms are needed to encour-    Increasingly, attention is focusing on improving
age mobility, promote efficient rural markets,       policies and institutions to achieve sustainable
and better target social assistance.                 recovery.
Deep and widespread poverty due to the plum-
meting output of the past several years poses a      Supporting reform
different challenge in most of the cis countries,       In line with the CEE countries' objectives, a
where more fundamental reforrn is needed to re-   major emphasis in Bank assistance during fiscal
verse negative growth trends, raise income levels,   1997, both in lending and nonlending services,
and bring about reductions in poverty. Ensuring      was to support preparation for EU membership.
minimum benefits for vulnerable people, prevent-  The Bank's Country Economic Memoranda for
ing the collapse of basic health services, and miti-   Poland and Slovakia, for example, focused on de-
gating the social impact of restructuring, particu-   fining policies helpful both to facilitating EU
larly the potential disruption of social services, are  membership and to increasing overall economic
key. In some countries, obstacles to economic re-   efficiency. Significant analytical work on pension
covery remain; to overcome them, economic man-  reform was carried out in Croatia, Hungary,
agement must be strengthened, enterprise and         Latvia, providing the basis for important reforms
banking reform speeded up, and the energy and        in the sector (see box 3-4). The Bank also advised
agriculture sectors brought into the market          the Czech Republic, Latvia, and Poland on least-
economy. Stemming severe environmental degra-   cost strategies for reaching EU environmental
SECTION THREE EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 67



standards, and in Slovenia, the EDI              ing. The Welfare Reform Project in Latvia, for
supported the establishment of the Center for    example, provided assistance for the first reform
International Competitiveness to help enter-     of pension systems in the region. The loan
prises better position themselves in the Euro-   helped consolidate the public unfunded system
pean market.                                     and introduced a privately managed funded sys-
In the CF.I countries the Bank has a compara-    tem. In Hungary the cycle of state bank recapi-
tive advantage in linking macro- and             talizations caused by bad loans to loss-making
microeconomic expertise and being able to        state enterprises was broken by a comprehen-
mobilize relatively large-scale resources quickly;    sive program for bank and enterprise
and in fiscal 1997, it helped several of these   privatization, restructuring, or liquidation, sup-
countries confront macroeconomic or sectoral     ported by the Enterprise and Financial Sector
crises. During the Bulgarian crisis, for example,  Adjustment Loan. A similar operation in
the Bank moved rapidly to provide the Reha-      Croatia supports banking sector reform and
hilitation Loan, which financedl the severance   privatization of state-owned energy and infra-
payments needed to close major loss-making       structure enterprises. The Bank played a critical
enterprises, and later a loan for critical imports    role in setting the policy and institutional
when that need developed. Also in Bulgaria,      framework for the agriculture sector with
preparation of the Enterprise Structural Adjust-   the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan in
ment Loan began. It will support a comprehen-    Romania and major components of structural
sive finance and enterprise sector reform pro-   adjustment loans (SALS) to Lithuania and
gram to be implemented by the newly elected      Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
government. The Bank helped identify one of        The Bank's strategy for supporting reforms in
the key underlying causes of the Latvia and      the cis countries in fiscal 1997 focused on bol-
Lithuania banking crises-the structural deficit    stering and sustaining growth. This required
of the wider public sector, including public     strengthening the state's role in managing the
utilities and social security institutions-and   core functions of macroeconomic policy, law
provided adjustment lending to support a com-    enforcement, and basic social services and
prehensive reform package.                       implementing the large number of market-
Since many CEE countries benefit from high     oriented reforms that still remain. Throughout
and increasing private financial flows, the Bank  the cis countries, and particularly in Russia, the
shifted its attention to analyzing systemic prob-    Bank worked in partnership with the Interna-
lems in the economy while letting the private    tional Monetary Fund (IMF), providing analytical
sector provide much of the investment financ-    support to bring about fiscal adjustment and
FIGURE 3-7 Europe and Central Asia: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector,
Fiscal Year 1997
Health. popul-itror anid nutrtonf. 2°o  -  *-                    Vvater supply and sarrnat on.,
Public sector management. 2r                                  Ub *p -
Industrv 2_                                        Urban 2%evelopment. 1
01 and gas 3. _     _                                Multsect,:l: 24%
Education' 3%i -M a_                                       24
;:iance. 6r,    *.
Mi,ing. 6%E                          _
rlansportation, o% -   i^N 
TIraniportation. 6_                      Social Sector. i 9%
E:ectnc power and other energy. 0  - 
Agnculture. ! 5,%
68 THE WORI.D BANK ANNUAI. REPORT 1997



BOX 3-4. ASSISTING REFORMS IN THE PENSION SYSTEM
Pension reform has moved into the mainstream of   funded and mandatory component. Bank projects
public sector reonn in the regon. Many pay-as-you-    such as those in Hungary and Latuia finance both
go (PAYG) ystems now account for 10-15 percent of    technical assistance and some of the costs associated
countries' GDP and are financed by high payroll con-    with introdudng the new system.
tributions These systems support an increasing num-  Latvian pension remfonms have been supported by
ber of pensioners while the number of contributors has  exensive technical assistance during preparation of
decined sharply; they drain public resources through   the Latvia Wefare Reform Projea The reforns
an increasing defict and fail to provide satisfactory  aioided the incremental costs of transition to a new
income security for the elderl. As a result, pensioners  system by phasing in only thefuy funded "second
have s-n their incomes drop dramaticaly during the   pillar" as cost-saving measures in the reformed public
transition.                                    PAYG system were realized. The new pension law will
Public opinion has shifted toward accepting higher   lower the expenditure on the first PAYG pillar by one-
retirement ages and tighter rldes for the PAYG schemes   third over ten years. The privately managed pension
and supporting a mixed system that wil combine  system is expected to reach 20 percent of GDP by
public and private sources forfinandngpensions.  2025 through a combination of mandatory second-
Workers expect that -w private or privately    and voluntary third-pillar conributions.
managed schemes will provide hier rates of return  Russia also began pension reform with support of
on theirpension saving and wil restore the value  the Bank. A Social Prtection Adjustment Loan was
of pensions while governments and the private sector   approed in fiscal 1997 and a related Impkementa-
expect that the new schemes wil genrate more ongt   tion loan was under preparation. These loans will
term savings that ould help promote capital markets   help the government shore up the PAYG system and
and growth. In Croatia, Hungary, Latvia, and   desin comprehensive reforms, including one or -
Piland, legislative work to reform the psin system    publy financd programs to protect vulnerable
has proceeded to an advanced stag, and in      groups; one or more fuliy or partly capitalized earn-
Iazakhstan and Russia and the procs has started.   ings-related programs; and a framevork for volun-
The lank is helping countries design and launch  tary schemes;
new mied-pension systms that include a fiuly
make it more sustainable. These were central to    financial assistance through an adjustment loan.
the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) and Enhanced     World Bank assistance to the banking sector is
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) programs.    exemplified by supporting the development
Continued support for economywide reforms        of rural finance systems in Georgia and Kyrgyz
included the structural adjustment loan to Rus-    Republic strengthened banking supervision in
sia. Establishing budget processes as the key in-    Armenia. The International Finance Corpora-
strument of expenditure management was sup-    tion (IFC) was instrumental in supporting
ported through an adjustment loan to Kyrgyz       Kazakhstan's financial sector with a broad-
Republic and through public expenditure re-       based program covering banking, leasing, and
views in Armenia, Georgia, Moldova, and          registry services. In addition, about 350 trainers
Ukraine. And financial support was provided to    from the cis received instruction under l:Dl'S
set up a bureau of economic analysis in Russia    banking and finance program; they in turn
to strengthen the country's institutional capac-  worked with trainer teams and have ultimately
ity for economic policymaking.                    trained more than 2,500 banking and finance
Several cis countries, previously hesitant to  practitioners.
privatize large enterprises, made significant       With extensive technical advice and lending
progress in fiscal 1997, including Ukraine,      from the W'/orld Bank, Georgia and Ukraine
which had support of World Bank technical and    began to separate the entities responsible for
SECIl1ON THREE  EUROPE AND CENTRAI. ASIA  69



TABLE 3-12. OPERATIONS APPROVED DURING FISCAL YEAR 1997,
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                  Date of Approval   Maturities     SDR        US$
Armeniia
Highway Project-Supplemental Financing                   Jun 25, 1997    2006/2030    11.00        15.00
Enterprise Developmenit Project                          Dec 24, 1996    2007/2031     11.60       16.75
Azerbaijan
Farm Privatization Project                               Jan 16, 1997    2007/2031    10.20        14.70
Gas System Rehabilitation Project                        Sep 19, 1996    2007/2031    14.10        20.20
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Industrial Re-Start Project                    Dec 13, 1996    2007/2031      7.00       10.00
Local Initiatives Project                                Dec 13, 1996    2007/2031      4.90        7.00
Essential Hospital Services Project                      Dec 13, 1996    2007/2031     10.40       15.00
Transition Assistance Credit                              Sep 5, 1996    2006/2031    62.40        90.00
Emergency Housing Repair Project                          Jul 30, 1996    2006/2031    10.50       15.00
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project           Jul 30, 1996    2006/2031    24.90       35.60
Emergency Public Works and Employment Project             Jul 30, 1996    2006/2031     7.00       10.00
Emergency Landmines Clearance Project                     Jul 30, 1996    2006/2031     5.30        7.50
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project        Jul 30, 1996    2006/2031     5.30        7.50
Bulgaria
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan                      May 8, 1997    2001/2016      n.a.       40.00
Social Insurance Administration Project                   Sep 3, 1996    2001/2016      n.a.       24.30
Rehabilitation Loan                                       Aug 1, 1996    2001/2016      n.a.       30.00
Croatia
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan          May 13, 1997    2002/2012      n.a.       95.00
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project     Dec 11, 1996    2002/2013      n.a.       42.00
EmergencyTransport and Mine Clearing Project             Nov 21, 1996    2002/2012      n.a.      102.00
Georgia
Power Rehabilitation Project                              Jun 3, 1997    2007/2031    37.70        52.30
Oil Institution Building Project                          Apr 8, 1997    2007/2032      1.00        1.40
Agricultural Development Project                         Mar 25, 1997    2007/2032    10.40        15.00
Hungary
Quick Start Gas Turbine Project                          Jun 25, 1997    2002/2012      n.a.       60.00
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan          Mar 11, 1997    2000/2011      n.a.      225.00
Public Finance Management Project                         Dec 5, 1996    2000/2011      n.a.        7.75
Kazakhstan
Real Estate Registration Pilot Project                    Apr 3, 1997    2003/2017      n.a.       10.00
Pilot Water Supply Project                               Dec 23, 1996    2002/2017      n.a.        7.00
Treasury Modernization Project                            Jul 30, 1996    2001/2016     n.a.       15.80
Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project                      Jul 2,1996    2001/2013      n.a.      109.00
Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance Project                                     Jun 5, 1997    2007/2032    11.90        16.00
Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit      Apr 16, 1997    2007/2031    32.00        44.00
Latvia
Welfare Reform Project                                    May6, 1997    2001/2012       n.a.       18.10
Highway Project                                          Mar 27, 1997    2002/2014      n.a.       20.00
Structural Adjustment Loan                               Dec 19, 1996    2000/2012      n.a.       60.00
Lithuaniia
Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project  Feb 18, 1997    2002/2014  n.a.    3.70
Structural Adjustment Loan                               Oct 15, 1996    2000/2011      n.a.       80.00
Highway Project                                           Sep 5, 1996    2002/2013      n.a.       19.(0
Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot Project                   Jul 11,1996    2001/2016      n.a.       10.0)0
70   THE WORli) BANK ANNI Al. REPORt 1 997



Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                Date of Approval  Maturities    SDR        US$
Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of
Structural Adjustment Loan                             May 6, 1997    2007/2032      n.a.      30.00
Structural Adjustment Credit                           May 6,1997    2002/2017    20.60        30.00
Moldova
Second Private Sector Development Project              Jun 10, 1997    2007/2032    6.60        9.00
General Education Project                              Apr 22, 1997    2003/2017     n.a.      16.80
Poland
Port Access and Management Project                      Aug 1, 1996    2001/2013     n.a.      67.00
Romania
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan                     Jun 3, 1997    2002/2017     n.a.     280.00
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan                     Jun 3, 1997    2002/2017     n.a.      70.00
Social Protection Adjustment Loan                       Jun 3, 1997    2002/2017     n.a.      50.00
Second Roads Project                                    Jun 3, 1997    2002/2017     n.a.     150.00
Reform of Higher Education and Research Project        Sep 19, 1996    2001/2016     n.a.      50.00
Bucharest Water Supply Project                         Aug 1, 1996    2001/2016      n.a.      25.00
Russia
Social Protection Adjustment Loan                      Jun 25, 1997    2003/2014     n.a.     800.00
Structural Adjustment Loan                              Jun 5, 1997    2003/2014     n.a.     600.00
Electricity Sector Reform Support Project               Jun 5, 1997    2003/2014     n.a.      40.00
Health Reform Pilot Project                             Jun 5, 1997    2003/2014     n.a.      66.00
Education Innovation Project                            Jun 5, 1997    2003/2014     n.a.      71.00
Enterprise Restructuring Services Project               Jun 5, 1997    2003/2014     n.a.      85.00
Bureau of Economic Analysis Project                     Jun 5, 1997    2003/2012     n.a.      22.60
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation              Mar 27, 1997    2003/2014     n.a.      31.00
Slovenia
Investment Recovery Project                            Jul 25, 1996    2001/2011     n.a.      49.30
Tajikistan
Pilot PovertyAlleviation Project                       Apr 10, 1997    2007/2037    8.70       12.00
Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection Project    Sep 12, 1996    2007/2036    34.80      50.00
Turkey
Primary Health Care Services Project                   Jun 24, 1997    2001/2012     n.a.      14.50
Baku-Ceyhan Oil Export Pipeline Technical Assistance Project    Sep 12, 1996    2000/2005  n.a.  5.00
Turkmenistan
Urban Transport Project                               May 27, 1997    2002/2017      n.a.      34.20
Water Supply and Sanitation Project                   May 27, 1997    2002/2017      n.a.      30.30
Ukraine
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan                            Dec 11, 1996    2002/2013     n.a.     300.00
Export Development Project                            Nov 21, 1996    2002/2013      n.a.      70.00
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                     Oct 17, 1996    2002/2013     n.a.     300.00
Electricity Market Development Project                 Oct 10, 1996    2002/2013     n.a.     317.00
Social Protection Support Project                      Sep 19, 1996    2002/2013     n.a.       2.60
Uzbekistan
Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project                 Sep 12, 1996    2002/2016     n.a.       5.00
Total                                                                         348.30    5,054.90
n.a. = not applicable (iBRD loan).
SECTION THREE  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA   71



bilateral donors was particularly important in
helping the Ukrainian authorities manage a
large volume of technical assistance for energy
reform. Parallel to institutional changes, govern-
ments are restoring the financial viability of
their power industries by cutting off delinquent
customers, increasing payment discipline among
budgetary entities, and discouraging barter ar-
rangements. In Azerbaijan, the Bank supported
more efficient use of gas by upgrading meters
and rehabilitating pipelines. And it helped
Kazakhstan to restructure and privatize old
oil fields.
Safety nets are key
Strengthening social safety nets continues to
be a high Bank priority, particularly in the cis
countries. Sharp declines in recorded wage bills,
and hence payroll taxes, resulted in a severe
erosion of cash benefits, such as pensions, un-
employment benefits, and child allowances. In
Russia, a social sector adjustment operation sup-
ports better targeting of social benefits and
electricity generat, ttransferring federal funds to regional budgets on
iluiiLI~    ¶ a matching grant basis. The Bank is supporting
bution_________________________________________ _ ininnovations in generating income and creating
_________________________________________________________   assets for the poor through loans for social in-
vestment funds. Since NGOS can be an innova-
tive and effective force in implementing social
investment fund projects, the Bank is support-
ing them and in some cases-notably in the
___  Tajikistan Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project-is
contracting NGOs as implementing agencies.
Providing support for those adversely affected
______________ ______    by enterprise restructuring is an important
function of social safety nets. In fiscal 1997, the
Bank helped the Ukrainian authorities mitigate
the social impact of coal sector restructuring by
_______________________supporting severance pay, worker redeployment,
___   _________                           ~~~~~~~~and divestiture of enterprise social assets (such
Pension reform has moved into the mainstream of public    as housing, health facilities, and kindergartens)
sector reform in Central and Eastern Europe.          to municipalities.
Robust and transparent intergovernmental
finance systems are required to ensure that
basic social services are delivered. Historically,
electricity generation, transmission, and distri-     revenue sharing in most cis countries has been
bution in fiscal 1997, thus opening the way for       based on annual budget negotiations, which
privatizing their power industries. Partnership       are nontransparent and create uncertainty about
between the Bank and other multilateral and           ultimate resource levels. But with the support
72 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPoRT 1997



of an IDA adjustment credit, Kyrgyz Republic  damaged infrastructure, clear land mines, repair
has adopted a system that allocates resources-    houses and hospitals, create jobs, reintegrate de-
using a transparent revenue-sharing          mobilized soldiers, and create government insti-
arrangement-and dedicates resources for pro-    tutions. In close coordination with other donors,
viding minimum health and education services.   the Bank is preparing a postcrisis recovery pro-
Ensuring that local governments have the insti-    gram for Albania that will serve as a basis for
tutional and financial capacity to provide basic    initiating a dialogue with a new government.
social services is a key component of the health
reform pilot project in Russia.               Portfolio management
The ECA portfolio has grown rapidly in recent
Environmental cleanup and protection         years, doubling between fiscal 1992 and fiscal
high on the cis agenda                        1997, with a total of 270 operations under su-
Stemming environmental degradation in the  pervision during fiscal 1997-almost half of
cis remains a difficult task in view of limited  which are in the new borrowing countries of
domestic resources. The Bank bas supported ef-   the cis. This rapid increase in lending to coun-
forts to tackle this issue by helping governments  tries with little or no previous experience in
to develop national environmental action plans    borrowing from the Bank resulted in unex-
(NEAPS), which emphasize sustainable policy  pected delays in project execution, particularly
changes and further institution building. In fis-    in formalizing legal agreements, completing
cal 1997, the NEAP for Kazakhstan was com-   procurement procedures, and processing dis-
pleted, adding to twelve NEAPs delivered previ-    bursements. To resolve these problems, Country
ously: those for Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia,  Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPRS) were
and Uzbekistan will be completed in fiscal   initiated with new borrowers, starting with
1998. Progress was also made in addressing glo-    Russia in mid-fiscal 1996 and during fiscal 1997
bal environmental issues. In Russia, the Bank  with Armenia, Romania, and Russia, as well
and the Global Environment Fund (GEF) are     as a multicountry review held in Istanbul in
establishing an ozone-depleting substance (oDS)    which all Central Asia countries participated.
phaseout trust fund that will be financed by bi-    These reviews have had considerable impact,
lateral donors. In Russia a greenhouse gas reduc-   yielding clear improvements in the portfolio.
tion project attracted donor cofinancing, and  The Russian example, where visits by the
the Biodiversity Conservation Project achieved  Bank's top management have played a pivotal
strong local ownership. Bank support of interna-   role, is illustrative: the Russian portfolio is
tional programs to clean up the Aral Sea, Baltic    now the largest in ECA, disbursements to Russia
Sea, Black Sea, Caspian Sea, and the Danube  have tripled, and the percentage of unsatisfac-
River continued. To enhance the role of NGOS in   tory projects has been reduced. EDI'S Moscow
the design and impact of environmental        team also helped assess the role of training in
projects, the Bank cosponsored an international    Russia's portfolio improvement and prepared
workshop of NGOS in May in Budapest.          a training action plan for each project and for
the overall portfolio.
Reconstruction after conflict remains a        These reviews have also highlighted the need
major Bank activity                          for increased training in Bank procurement and
Emergency reconstruction from the devastat-   disbursement processes-subsequently pro-
ing war in the Balkans remained a major objec-    vided, in most cases, through resident mis-
tive of Bank support to Bosnia and Herzegovina,   sions-and the need to move more authority to
although at the request of the international  field offices (four of the eleven ECA directors
community, the Bank and the EU took a lead co-   will be moved to the field during fiscal 1998).
ordinating role in beginning to move the focus
toward sustainable recovery as the year pro-
gressed. Bank operations helped rehabilitate
SECTION THREE EUROPE AND CENTRAL AsIA  73



LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Having successfully contained    (see figure 3-8). Inflation  Peru's tight fiscal policy re-
the financial repercussions of the    continued to decline while net   sulted in a sharp slowdown in
1994-95 Mexican peso crisis, the  long-term private capital flows   growth from the previous year.
Latin America and Caribbean    gained ground, with an esti-     With the exception of 1995,
(LAc) region still faces continuing   mated $74 billion of invest-  GDP growth in the typical Latin
development challenges, including   ments, of which $26 billion  American country this decade
serious poverty, inequality, and  was in the form of foreign di-    has ranged between 3 percent
unemployment. To help its clients  rect investment.           and 4 percent per year-insuffi-
meet those challenges, the World  In the Caribbean, 1996 saw    cient to permit sustained
Bank Group especially focused  newly elected governments in    progress on poverty reduction.
on supporting national and re-    the Dominican Republic, Haiti,  About a quarter of the region's
gional economic reform efforts, fi-   and Suriname. The Dominican   people live on less than a dollar
nancial sector restructuring, and    Republic and Guyana began to   a day. To overcome this magni-
human development through      recover from recession and     tude of poverty and achieve
lending and nonlending instru-  grew at more than 5 percent,    sustainable development,
ments and through stronger part-   but in Haiti and Jamaica, which  governments must consolidate
nerships. To help improve the ef-   still await the dividends from  stabilization; achieve higher
fectiveness of its own operations,    politically difficult reform pro-   and less volatile growth; ensure
the regional office began a broad-   grams, growth was close to zero. that growth is environmentally,
ranging modernization effort   Stronger links to the North    economically, and socially
geared to helping staff work more   American Free Trade Agree-  sustainable; and more effec-
closely with clients, more quickly    ment (NAFTA) and other regional tively involve the poor in the
react to requests for assistance,  trade groups, which will substi-  growth process.
and enhance technical skills.  tute for preferential trade pro-  Analysis undertaken within
grams, have not yet material-    the World Bank and elsewhere
Stronger growth in Latin     ized. Prices for Caribbean     suggests that LAC countries
America in 1996 reflected      bananas, which are a major     that have undertaken serious
resumed positive growth in     merchandise export for several  reform have enjoyed an average
Mexico and Argentina (at 5.1   countries, have eroded signifi-    2 percent higher per capita
percent and 4.4 percent, re-   cantly under evolving rules for   income growth in the 1 990s
spectively). Both countries    preferential access to the Euro-  than those that have not. It is
managed to rebound from the    pean Union (EU).               encouraging, therefore, that
1994-95 crisis with restored     With the exception of Bo-    over the last year, a number of
growth and access to interna-    livia, economic growth in the  countries, including Argentina,
tional capital. Uruguay also en-   Andean countries was sluggish.   Brazil, El Salvador, Mexico, and
joyed growth of 4.9 percent af-   The poorest performer was    Peru, have shown deep commit-
ter a decline the previous year.    Venezuela where, in response    ment to reform.
This reflected strong policy re-   to a combined economic and fi-    To achieve higher, less
sponses as well as strengthened    nancial crisis, GDP declined by    volatile growth, governments
economic fundamentals result-   1.6 percent and inflation     must preserve the earlier gains
ing from earlier reforms. In   topped 100 percent; in early   made on price stability, fiscal
Chile, one of the earliest and  1997, however, stronger oil   balance, and trade openness.
most consistent reformers in   prices contributed to an incipi-  In addition, they need to
the region, growth performance   ent recovery in growth.      pay attention to five critical
remained strong at 7.1 percent,   Bolivia's sound macroeconomic  policy areas:
but in many other countries, in-  management and accelerated     v improving human and
cluding Brazil, the region's big-   structural reforms led to real    social development;
gest economy, growth slowed    GDP growth of about 4 percent.
74 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



. strengthening public finances;               FIGURE 3-8
* reforming and strengthening financial        Latin America and Caribbean GDP Growth
markets;                                         Rate and Inflation Rate, Fiscal 1991-96
* improving legal and regulatory environ-      (percent)
ments to promote private sector activity
* reforming the public sector and improving     Growth Rate                     Inflation Rate
governance.                                       6                                      1200
It is against this backdrop that the Bank's as-
sistance strategy for fiscal 1997 was set.        5                                      1000
World Bank loans and Intemational Develop-
ment Association (IDA) credits approved by the    4                                       800
executive directors in fiscal 1997 totaled $4,562
million-compared to $4,437 million in fiscal      3                                       600
1996. Table 3-13 shows the sectoral distribution
of lending to the region for the 1988-97 period.  2                                       400
Table 3-14 compares commitments, disburse-
ments and net transfers to the region for fiscal
years 1992-97, and table 3-15 shows operations
in the LAC region approved by the Executive       0                                         0
Board during fiscal 1997 by country. Fifty-two        1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  ¢'AI
operations were approved, compared to fifty-
four in fiscal 1996. In addition to Bank and IDA        -     Weighted mean inflation rate
operations, the Bank's private sector affiliate,             Real GDP growth rate
the International Finance Corporation (IFC),
invested in fifty-seven operations during the    Source: World Bank and IMF.
year for a total of $2,762 million, compared to
the sixty-eight investments totaling $3,628 mil-
lion in fiscal 1996. The Multilateral Investment    Brazil, are confronting some of the same diffi-
Guarantee Agency (MIGA) issued twenty-six       cult issues facing the countries of the Organisa-
guarantee contracts in nine countries in the re-    tion for Economic Co-operation and Develop-
gion for about $365 million in coverage. These  ment (OECD), including managing the school-
guarantees facilitated investments in the finan-    to-work transition, keeping up with changing
cial, manufacturing, mining, telecommunica-     technology, and improving school management.
tions and tourism sectors.                      The Bank is supporting improvements in the
quality and accessibility of education.
Improving human and social development            About 100 million people in the region do
Attention to the region's human and social    not have regular access to a formal health care
development has increased in recent years,      system. The Bank is helping strengthen health
partly because the dividends from an outward-    care delivery systems so they can provide cost-
oriented development strategy depend increas-    effective, efficient, and quality preventive and
ingly on the quality of human resources but also   curative health services and is helping ensure
because unequal access to education and health    that health services are financially sustainable.
services is a powerful determinant of inequality    A new role for the Bank is helping governments
and poverty.                                    to redefine their role in the sector-that is, to
Surveys indicate the quality of education in  diminish the role of providing direct services
LAC is low at all levels; there is also a high de-  while creating a "friendly environment" for
gree of inequality of educational opportunity in    nongovernmental involvement and increased
terms of both access and quality. In addition,   competition among service providers.
the region's middle-income countries, such as
SECTION THREE  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN  75



FIGURE 3-9 Latin America and the Caribbean: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector,
Fiscal Year 1997
Urban development, 2%                                    Environment, 2%
Mu tisector, 3                                      Education, i%
Heath, popu abn o and nuitriion, 3%
Water supply ane sanitacion, 4%.
Social sector, 9/.
Transportation, 33%
Public sector management 13%   X
Finance, 14%   Z EX    ; | |  g          t         Agriculture, 16%
Strengthening public finances                   to manage revenue and expenditure better,
Fiscal strength and stability are more impor-  privatize public enterprises, reform the civil
tant today than ever before because economies   service, and reorganize debt obligations.
are more open and are increasingly dependent       To cushion the impact of cutbacks in the
on market-driven, private capital flows. Well-  public sector in the Argentine provinces of
managed public finances also facilitate increased    Cordoba and Tucuman, the Bank and IFC joined
domestic savings and allow governments to       forces to help create an environment conducive
invest in those elements of infrastructure and  to private sector development. Following up on
human development in which the private sector   a joint iFc-Bank study of the Tucuman Province,
will not.                                       IFC is providing a $30 million credit line to
Colombia has recently established stabiliza-  Banco Roberts for onlending to companies in
tion arrangements to smooth the impact of oil-    the northern provinces of Argentina. In addi-
related financial flows on public finances and  tion, IFC is providing a $10 million subordinated
the domestic economy. The Bank has encour-       convertible loan to Banco del Suquia to enable
aged Ecuador and Venezuela to consider such     this regional bank to further develop its busi-
schemes and has discussed them with Suriname    ness in Cordoba and surrounding provinces.
and Trinidad and Tobago. In Guatemala the       And in Mexico, following joint IDB, IFC, and
Bank undertook a public investment review in    World Bank analysis of the southern states,
close collaboration with the government; the    the IFC created the Fondo Chiapas to provide
Bank is also playing a central role in supporting  risk capital to support small and medium-size
implementation of the country's peace accords    enterprises.
(see box 3-5).                                     Reforming social security systems helps coun-
Fiscal imbalances at the provincial or state  tries maintain long-term fiscal sustainability.
levels can quickly spread to the national level.  Increased reliance on private funding of social
This often occurs through loans made by public    security reduces governments' long-term liabili-
banks to insolvent local entities or through     ties, while a strong fiscal position facilitates the
bonds issued by these entities, which the na-   transition to private management. In fiscal 1997
tional treasury is later forced to redeem. Where    the Bank supported Mexican social security re-
subnational governments have been interested    form; aided Peru in undertaking initial reforms
in reform, such as in some Brazilian states and  of its system; and helped the Argentine authori-
Argentine provinces, the World Bank (often in   ties transfer provincial social security obliga-
collaboration with the Inter-American Develop-   tions to a national system.
ment Bank-IDB) has helped to design programs
76  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Reforming financial markets                  Argentina, Mexico, and Venezuela were
among countries facing such difficulties in 1995
The legacy of recent years has made Latin  and 1996. The Bank, together with the IDB,
American countries only too aware of the im-  helped the Argentine and Mexican governments
portance of sound financial markets-not only    address weaknesses and restore confidence in
for maintaining economic stability and efficient   their financial systems. In Argentina, the on-
resource allocation but also for attracting and  going Provincial Bank Privatization Loan and
managing cross-border capital flows. Macroeco-   the Banking Sector Reform Loan helped con-
nomic instability weakens financial systems, par-  solidate the banking system, with fourteen pro-
ticularly banking systems, especially where su-    vincial bank privatizations completed or under
pervision and regulation are poor. Since weak  way and seventeen private bank consolidation
banking systems in turn make economies vul-    transactions concluded. In Mexico an earlier
nerable to shocks, it is important to address  loan to restructure the financial system was
these vulnerabilities quickly.             fully disbursed in fiscal 1997, and Bank support
continued through ongoing technical assistance
TABLE 3-13. LENDING TO BORROWERS IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN, BY SECTOR, FISCAL YEARS 1988-97
(millions of us dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                       FY88-92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Agriculture                   759.5   390.0   363.9   440.3   226.3   730.6
Education                     289.7   548.7  1,083.3   747.1   493.1    61.5
Electric power                419.8   345.1     -       161.5   465.4     -
Environment                   149.8    16.3   501.0   103.9   301.5    86.5
Finance                       515.8   525.0   604.5  1,909.5    11.9   630.2
Health, population and nutrition   182.0   329.0   331.0    94.6  1,086.4   136.8
Industry                      565.9     -       -        -        8.0     -
Mining                         50.0   250.0    14.0      -       41.0     -
Multisector                   937.0   918.1   122.2   328.6   110.9   132.1
Oil and gas                    86.5    11.8     -        11.0    10.6     -
Public sector management      292.2   443.0    58.3   596.4   666.4   584.0
Social sector                  19.8    85.0   130.0   500.0   262.0   405.0
Telecommunications             13.4     -       -        -       -        -
Transportation                515.8  1,697.5   595.0   371.0   530.0  1,496.0
Urban development             535.1   170.0   422.0   575.0    20.0   100.0
Water supply and sanitation   261.5   439.0   521.5   221.5   204.0   200.0
Total                       5,593.8  6,168.5  4,746.7  6,060.4  4,437.5  4,562.7
Of which: IBRD            5,381.2  5,851.8  4,434.5  5,715.2  4,047.2  4,437.5
IDA               212.6   316.7   312.2   345.2   390.3   125.2
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
- Zero.
SECTION THREE LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN  77



for establishing an incentive framework for fi-        IFC's field presence in the country is forging
nancial intermediaries, strengthening banking           deeper links with private firms, and a separate fi-
supervision and regulation, and improving legal         nancing facility, the Small Enterprise Fund, has
and regulatory infrastructure for credit and            been established. The competitiveness strategy is
capital market transactions.                            also being supported by the Foreign Investment
Advisory Service (FIAS) and MIGA through invest-
Improving the legal and regulatory                      ment promotion and information dissemination
environment                                             services. FIAS is also a partner in the Bank-
To facilitate private sector development, as         financed Trinidad and Tobago Business Expan-
well as to safeguard consumer interests, the            sion and Industrial Restructuring Project, where
Bank is helping several countries establish clear,    it is providing advice on investment regime re-
impartial legal and regulatory environments             forms. In Brazil the Bank undertook a study of
with predictable enforcement. It is helping             the elements of "Custo Brazil," the various finan-
Guatemala prepare selected infrastructure sec-          cial, regulatory, and infrastructure costs that have
tors for privatization and concessioning through        impaired Brazilian producers' competitiveness.
a technical assistance project that includes sup-
port to prepare legislation and strengthen regu-        Governance and public sector
latory agencies. A technical assistance loan to         modernization
Colombia is also supporting regulatory reform.            To be sustainable, reforms depend on efficient,
El Salvador's overall competitive posture is be-        modern states, professionally staffed and focused
ing revised through the ongoing Competitive-            on policy formulation and evaluation. A large
ness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project,          Bank program is helping to sustain reforms
and during the 1996 Annual Meetings a special           through modernizing public sectors and improv-
country seminar on El Salvador's competitive-           ing governance. In fiscal 1997, eight loans total-
ness program was widely attended by potential           ing $600 million supported public sector man-
investors. The IFc is also playing a key role in        agement and modernization (including three
supporting the competitiveness program                 loans totaling $420 million to support pension
through its Extended Reach Initiative program.          reform); these included loans to El Salvador,
TABLE 3-14. WORLD BANK COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND NET
TRANSFERS IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN, FISCAL YEARS 1992-97
(millions of us dollars)
Argentina              Brazil              Mexico              Total region
start                start                start                start
Item               1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97,  1997  1997 1992-97a  1997  1997 1992-97,
Undisbursed
commitments      3,152                4,236                3,893                17,431
Commitments             1,480   7,355          993   5,173           960   8,047         4,563  31,637
Gross
disbursements         1,127   4,795         1,560   5,133          943   7,246         5,018  25,692
Repayments                295   2,003         1,099   7,575        1,363   7,018         4,193  26,692
Net
disbursements           831   2,793          461  -2,442          -421    228            825  -1,000
Interest and charges      326   1,635          351   3,114           803   5,404         2,198  16,235
Net transfer              505   1,158           110  -5,556       -1,224  -5,176        -1,373 -17,235
NoTE: The countries shown in the table are those with the largest borrowings of Bank funds during fiscal 1996-97. Details
may not add to totals because of rounding
a. Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included through fiscal 1996.
78   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



BOX 3-5. SUPPORTING PEACE IN GUATEMALA
The final peace accord signed in Guatemala on  social services and community infrastructure while
December 29, 1996, saw all of CentralAmerica      recognizing and nurturing the nation's linguistic, eth-
finally free of civil strife and under democratically  nic, and cultural diversity. To ensure commitments
elected governments. The region's priority battle now  are met efficiently, the accord stressed the need for
is against poverty, which affects about half the popu-    greater consultation with communities and NGOs as
lation. Bank strategies focus on improving social in-  well as including them in the implementation of new
frastructure and services by modernizing the public  programs. To facilitate this, a meeting was held with
sector; promoting increased reliance on community-  200 Mayan elders from twenty-one groups, Xinca
based project management; strengthening basic edu-  people, and Bank staff in December 1996.
cation; removing constraints to rural growth, such as  While the Bank is supporting many of Guatemala's
restricted access to smallscale credit; and continuing    programs, the government also needs to collect
structural reforms to enhance competitiveness. The  greater revenues to finance the peace program. At
Central America Department was established by the    less than 8 percent of GDP, revenue collection is his-
Bank early in fiscal 1997 to support this important  torically among the lowest in Latin America. A Bank
agenda; and to maintain a strong working transition    loan to support the government's tax and customs
to sustained peace, a resident mission has been   law reform is under preparation. It will make tax
established in Guatemala City.                    evasion a criminal offense and set up a modern tax
Guatemala's poor are overwhelmingly indigenous    administration. These important initiatives, which
people, those living in rural areas, and women. The  will provide funding for the social commitments of
peace accord recognized this and committed the gov-    the peace accord, are also part of the government's
ernment to rapidly improve poor people's access to  bold anticorruption initiative.
Honduras, and Jamaica. In addition, two loans        Improving operations
to Brazil are supporting reform at the state           A major focus in fiscal 1997 was to improve
level. The Colombian national evaluation sys-        the quality and effectiveness of Bank operations
tem for assessing public sector performance was    through greater attention to portfolio manage-
reviewed, drawing on New Zealand and                 ment and encouraging greater participation in,
Australia's experience of civil service reform.      and sharpening client focus on, new projects.
An important goal for countries modernizing            Portfolio management. Improving portfolio
their public sectors is reducing opportunities for    performance remains a major priority in the LAC
corruption. Many of the market-oriented re-          region. Issues that negatively affect project
forms undertaken over the last decade have re-       implementation include lack of availability of
duced the scope for discretionary economic ac-       counterpart funds; weak project management;
tion and therefore for corruption. Though not        delays in procurement for procedural reasons;
containing explicit anticorruption objectives,       slow legislative action; and difficulties in adapt-
nearly all of the Bank-financed public sector re-    ing project designs to reflect decentralized pow-
form loans in fiscal 1997 contain anticorruption     ers in federal systems. To address these weak-
objectives. An Economic Development Institute    nesses, an increased share of the Bank's
(EDI) seminar on governance and public sector        administrative budget is being allocated to port-
management in El Salvador focused on methods    folio management, while resident missions are
of improving service delivery, increasing ac-        playing an increasing role and discussions of
countability and transparency, and promoting         portfolio issues are taking place at a senior level.
more regular communication between govern-             In some cases, joint Bank-government com-
ments and stakeholders.                              missions have been set up to address portfolio
issues. In Brazil, an open and intense process led
to an historic opportunity to effect portfolio-
wide change. The final report of the respective
SECTION THREE  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN   79



TABLE 3-15. OPERATIONS APPROVED DURING FISCAL YEAR 1997,
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                   Date of Approval    Maturities    SDR         US$
Argentina
Second Social Protection Project                         Jun 20, 1997    2003/2012       n.a.      200.00
AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Control Project  May 22, 1997      2002/2012      n.a.       15.00
Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project                    May 15, 1997      2002/2012      n.a.      200.00
Second Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project  May 15, 1997     2003/2012       n.a.      100.00
Provincial Agricultural Development Project              Apr 22, 1997    2002/2012       n.a.      125.00
National Pension Administration Technical
Assistance Project                                      Jan 21, 1997     2002/2012      n.a.       20.00
Provincial Pension Reform Adjustment Loan               Dec 11, 1996     2002/2012       n.a.      300.00
Flood Protection Project                                Dec 11, 1996      2002/2012      n.a.      200.00
Provincial Roads Project                                 Sep 12, 1996     2002/2011      n.a.      300.00
Native Forests and Protected Areas Project                Sep 5, 1996     2002/2011      n.a.       19.50
Belize
Social Investment Fund Project                          Mar 18, 1997     2002/2014       n.a.        7.00
Bolivia
Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit                Nov 14, 1996     2005/2035      3.80         5.40
Brazil
Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project    Jun 12, 1997  2002/2012   n.a.      300.00
Mato Grosso State Privatization Project                  Jun 12, 1997     2001/2012      n.a.       45.00
Water Resources Management Pilot Project-State of Ceara  Jun 12, 1997     2001/2012      n.a.        9.60
Agricultural Technology Development Project             May 22, 1997      2002/2012      n.a.       60.00
Rio Grande do Sul State Highway Management Project      May 15, 1997      2001/2012      n.a.       70.00
Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project        Apr 22, 1997     2000/2012      n.a.       90.00
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project                                     Apr 22, 1997     2000/2012      n.a.      100.00
Rio Grande do Sul State Reform Project                    Mar 4, 1997     2000/2012      n.a.      125.00
Bahia Municipal Infrastructure Development and
Management Project                                       Mar 4, 1997    2000/2012       n.a.      100.00
Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Project-
Rio Grande do Norte                                    Dec 12, 1996     2002/2011       n.a.       24.00
Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Project-Piaui        Dec 12, 1996     2002/2011      n.a.       30.00
Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Project-Pernambuco   Dec 12, 1996     2002/2011      n.a.       39.00
Colombia
Financial Markets Development Project                    Jun 20, 1997     2001/2012      n.a.       15.00
Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project           Feb 25, 1997     2000/2012      n.a.       12.50
Dominican Republic
National Highway Project                                 Dec 19, 1996     2000/2012      n.a.       75.00
Ecuador
Agricultural Research Project                            Jul 25, 1996     2003/2017      n.a.       21.00
Judicial Reform Project                                   Jul 18, 1996    2002/2016      n.a.       10.70
El Salvador
Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan     Sep 3, 1996     2002/2013      n.a.       24.00
commission emphasizes the need for more effi-              lope programs" in which a framework for assis-
cient procedures, stronger dialogue on country             tance is approved and in which several projects
assistance strategy, and new forms of assistance           are developed to suit different state borrowers;
to meet the needs of a changed environment.                decentralizing project implementation in line
The report recommends dividing projects into               with location advantage; and simplifying both
successive multistage phases; preparing "enve-             Bank and borrower procedures.
80   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Principal amount
(millions)
Country/project name                                  Date of Approval    Maturities    SDR        US$
Guatemala
Basic Education Reform Project                         May 20, 1997     2001/2012       n.a.      33.00
Private Participation in Infrastructure Technical
Assistance Loan                                       Apr 22, 1997    2000/2012       n.a.       13.00
Guyana
Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit           Nov 14, 1996     2005/2035      1.50        2.20
Haiti
Second Technical Assistance Project                     Sep 17, 1996    2006/2036      8.30       12.00
Forest and Parks Protection Technical Assistance Project  Sep 17, 1996  2007/2036    15.00        21.50
Honduras
Rural Land Management Project                          Mar 20, 1997     2007/2037    23.50        34.00
Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit  Nov 14, 1996  2006/2035    14.00        20.10
Jamaica
Social Investment Fund Project                           Sep 5, 1996    2002/2013       n.a.      20.00
Public Sector Modernization Project                      Sep 3, 1996    2002/2013       n.a.      28.40
Student Loan Project                                    Jul 25, 1996    2002/2013       n.a.      28.50
Mexico
Federal Roads Modernization Project                     Jun 25, 1997    2002/2012       n.a.     475.00
Aquaculture Development Project                         May 1, 1997     2001/2012       n.a.      40.00
Community Forestry Project                              Feb 18, 1997    2002/2012       n.a.      15.00
Contractual Savings Development Program                 Dec 17, 1996    2000/2008       n.a.     400.00
Rural Finance Technical Assistance and Pilot Project    Oct 10, 1996    2000/2012       n.a.      30.00
Nicaragua
Rural Municipalities Project                            Sep 12, 1996    2006/2036    20.90        30.00
Panama
Social Investment Fund Project                          Jun 17, 1997    2003/2014       n.a.      28.00
Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Project             May 8, 1997     2002/2014       n.a.      22.50
Paraguay
Maternal Health and Child Development Project            Sep 5, 1996    2000/2011       n.a.      10.90
Maternal Health and Child Development Project            Sep 5, 1996    2000/2013       n.a.       10.90
Peru
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan                    Feb 11, 1997    2002/2014       n.a.     183.00
Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                          Feb 11, 1997    2002/2014       n.a.     100.00
Sierra Natural Resources Management and
PovertyAlleviation Project                             Jan 16, 1997    2001/2014       n.a.      51.00
Irrigation Subsector Project                             Jul 25, 1996   2001/2013       n.a.      85.00
Second Social Development and Compensation Fund Project    Jul 16, 1996  2002/2013      n.a.     150.00
Uruguay
Forest Products Transport Project                       Jun 25, 1997    2002/2012       n.a.      76.00
Total                                                                             87.00    4,562.70
n.a. = not applicable (IBRD loan).
Greater participation. Facilitating greater par-        whose roles are to ensure that local and com-
ticipation in projects is one of the Bank's guid-          munity concerns are incorporated into pro-
ing principles. The LAC region's resident mis-             grams and projects. In Central America and the
sions in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia,             Andean countries, where indigenous peoples
Costa Rica, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and            represent significant percentages of the popula-
Venezuela have NGO coordinators on staff                   tion, the Bank has extended Institutional
SECTION THREE  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN   81



The Bank is supporting implementation of Guatemala's peace accords.
Development Fund grants to help eleven indig-    design and monitoring of poverty reduction
enous NGOs in nine countries strengthen their  programs. The Bank joined forces with the IDB
capacity to define their own development needs.   and the United Nations Economic Commission
Partnerships. To take advantage of the special    for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) in
skills and expertise of others, the Bank began  a multiyear regional and country program to
working with the IDB and the Pan American      help national statistical offices improve the col-
Health Organization (PAHO) on a pilot program  lection and interpretation of national living-
to address serious emerging issues related to  condition surveys. The first four countries to
rapid urbanization-problems of at-risk youth,  participate in this project are Argentina, El Sal-
urban poverty, and crime and violence. These   vador, Paraguay, and Peru; additional countries
concerns also were discussed at length at the  under consideration are the Dominican Repub-
second Annual Bank Conference for Develop-     lic and Haiti.
ment Economics for Latin America and the Car-    An innovative environment project that sup-
ibbean.8 EDI was a partner in organizing this con-   ports the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor ex-
ference, which brought together policymakers,  emplifies the strength of working with partners.
private sector participants, and leading academ-    Here the Bank and the Global Environment Fa-
ics to focus on international economic integra-  cility (GEF) are working to help conserve Central
tion and commerce.
Another partnership is helping secure better,    8. Jointly sponsored with the government of Colombia and
more accurate statistics crucial to improving the    the University of the Andes and held in Bogota in July
1996.
82 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPoRT 1997



America's biodiversity through projects in
Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama. They are
also contributing to a joint initiative of the
seven countries in Central America to ensure
that a mosaic of natural habitats extending from
southern Mexico to Colombia is conserved and
that the critical natural link between the conti-
nental masses of North America and South
America is maintained. This biological link is
important to sustain not only Central America's
biological processes but also those of North and
South America.
Increasing client focus. Consistent with the
Bankwide renewal effort, the Latin America and
Caribbean regional office is improving its busi-
ness processes to focus more closely on client
needs, strengthen accountability and delegation,
improve cost effectiveness, simplify procedures,
and enhance professional standards. A range of
alternative models was tested and evaluated,
based on which an overall design for regionwide
renewal was prepared. Consequently, country
assistance strategy and client relationships will,
as of July 1, 1997, be managed by seven country-
management units, which in turn will contract
with four regionwide sector departments to de-
liver most operational products. The Mexico
country-management unit is already managed
from the field, and others are also expected to
be devolved.
SECTION THREE LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN  83



MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Countries in the Middle East   nearly 7 percent in Tunisia,  1997 reflect these priorities
and North African region experi-  4-5 percent in Egypt, Iran,10  within the framework of
enced significant economic    Jordan, and Lebanon, and 3-4    country-specific needs. The
growth and stability for the sec-    percent in Algeria and Yemen.   fiscal year's operations also re-
ond year in a row. The Bank's  Only the West Bank and Gaza,  flect a broadening product
assistance strategy in fiscal 1997   where economic performance    mix, renewed efforts to en-
centered on supporting countries   continues to be bound up  hance responsiveness to cli-
as they built on earlier reform ef-   with progress on the Middle  ents, and closer partnerships
forts-especially those that pro-    East peace process, was unable   with counterparts at the
mote rapid private sector-led  to share in the brightening   grassroots. Capacity building
growth (with IFC and MIGA also    picture-growth during 1996    was supported by the Eco-
playing significant roles); encour-  was marginally negative.  nomic Development Institute
age human capital development   The improvement in           (EDI), which organized the
and help to ensure that the fruits  growth prospects reflects a  Mediterranean Development
of growth are widely shared; and   payoff from the determined  Forum in May 1997 in
support environmentally sustain-   efforts by the countries of the    Marrakech, Morocco.
able growth. New and innova-    region to secure and maintain    Policymakers, parliamentar-
tive products and instruments-   macroeconomic stability and  ians, NGOS, academics, and
including a World Bank        to undertake fundamental      journalists from around the
guarantee-have been key to    programs of economic reform.   world came together to par-
meeting changing clients needs in   The depth and pace of    ticipate in more than a dozen
the region. And efforts to improve   progress in individual cases  learning programs on regional
and speed up lending processes,   reflect specific country condi-   development issues ranging
reduce problem projects by inten-  tions, but there is now a broad   from unleashing the economic
sified portfolio management, and   consensus among the Bank's  potential of the rural poor to
work more closely with clients  active borrowers on the need  managing reform.
and local people have been cen-   to open up economies to the  World Bank loans and Inter-
tral elements. In the West Bank    outside world and create  national Development Asso-
and Gaza, the Bank's support  market-friendly domestic       ciation (IDA) credits (including
through the Trust Fund for Gaza   policy and operational envi-  financing on IDA terms pro-
and the West Bank is expanding   ronments in which the private   vided from the Trust Fund for
and moving from a concentration   sector is increasingly the  Gaza and the West Bank) ap-
on emergency assistance to pro-    engine of growth.         proved by the executive direc-
moting private sector-led growth  Rapid private sector-led   tors in fiscal 1997 totaled
and development.              growth is at the core of the   $998.3 million. Table 3-16
Bank's strategy for the region,    shows the sectoral distribution
After a long period of slow  along with two other critical  of lending to the region for
growth, most economies in the   factors-support for human   the 1988-97 period. Table
Middle East and North Africa    capital development and pro-    3-17 compares commitments,
(MENA) region in which the    grams to ensure that the fruits   disbursements and net trans-
Bank has current operations9  of growth are widely shared    fers to the region for fiscal
recorded significant improve-    throughout society; and sup-  years 1992-97, and table 3-18
ments in gross domestic prod-    port for environmentally
uct (GDP) for the second year    responsible growth to ensure    9. Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Jordan,
Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia, the West
in a row. Growth estimates for   that development is sustain-  Bank and Gaza, and Yemen.
1996 ranged from a high of    able. Both lending and non-    10. Source: Islamic Republic of Iran
nearly 12 percent in Morocco,   lending services during fiscal    government estimates.
84  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



shows IBRD and IDA-funded operations in the  (MIGA) issued seven guarantee contracts for in-
MENA region approved by the Executive Board  vestments in Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt and Saudi
during fiscal 1997 by country. The number of  Arabia totaling $23 million in issued coverage
operations approved rose to a historic high of  and facilitating more than $250 million in for-
twenty-four compared with a 1994-96 average    eign investment. Both IFc and MIGA provided
of seventeen, largely reflecting a sharp upswing    technical advice to support private sector and
in the West Bank and Gaza program (see box 3-   financial market-development and investment-
6). In addition to Bank and IDA operations, the  promotion activities in MENA countries.
Bank's private sector affiliate, the International  While individual country circumstances vary,
Finance Corporation (IFC), invested in twenty-    the prospects for achieving and maintaining a
five operations in MENA countries during the  regional average annual rate of growth on the
year. IFC financing totaled $420 million, an in-  order of 5-6 percent now look brighter than
crease over the eighteen investments totaling  they have at any time over the past decade. But
$288 million in fiscal 1996. Meanwhile, the  turning these prospects into reality will require
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency    continuing work on a substantial unfinished
TABLE 3-16. LENDING TO BORROWERS IN MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA,
BY SECTOR, FISCAL YEARS 1988-97
(millio;s of us dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                       FY88-92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Agriculture                    283.6   463.0   574.2   231.6   100.0   176.5
Education                      138.4   115.2    33.0   158.3   138.3    98.0
Electric power and other energy    152.9   165.0    80.0  -        -       65.0
Environment                     -       -        33.5   113.0    78.0      -
Finance                         83.2    -       120.0     -      408.7    75.0
Health, population and nutrition    53.1   188.0  -       35.7    85.2     -
Industry                        98.5    -        -        -        -
Mining                          11.2    -        -        -        -       -
Multisector                    325.0    -        -       150.0   380.0   120.0
Oil and gas                     49.9    -        -        -       35.0     -
Public sector management        37.6    -        19.9     -       20.0    85.0
Social sector                   28.0    -        -        -      223.0    30.0
Telecommunications               7.2   100.0    20.0      -        -       -
Transportation                 105.6    35.0     -       239.1    37.0    42.0
Urban development              108.7   684.0     -        51.0    50.0   100.0
Water supply and sanitation     23.4   130.0   270.0      -       40.0   123.3
Total                        1,506.2  1,880.2  1,150.6   978.7  1,595.2   914.8
Of which: IBRD             1,396.0  1,756.4  1,050.6   925.4  1,276.7   769.6
IDA                110.2   123.8   100.0    53.3   318.5   145.2
NoTE: Does not include loans to the West Bank and Gaza from the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
- Zero.
SECTION THREE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA  85



FIGURE 3-10 Middle East and North Africa: IBRD and IDA Commitments by Sector,
FiscalYear 1997
Social sector, 3%
Transportation, 5%
Electric power and other energy, 7%                             Agricu ture, 20%
Finance, 8%
Public sector managment, 9%                                 Water supply and sanitat on, !3%
Education, 11%                                      Multisector 13%
Urban development, 1 % X
policy agenda and on large investments in        economic integration, investment, and savings,
key areas for securing rapid, widely shared,    will help develop Jordan's banking and financial
and environmentally sustainable growth. Bank    sectors. Both operations also feature support for
Group operations during the year were de-       government privatization programs.
signed to support countries' efforts in each of    Earlier reform efforts undertaken with
these respects.                                  Bank support are beginning to pay off in terms
of improved growth prospects and other
Promoting rapid growth                          benefits that are reflected in the daily lives of
Support for countries' programs of policy re-    ordinary people. One dramatic example is the
form to speed the growth process by promoting    $80 million Yemen Economic Recovery Credit,
international competitiveness and opening up     approved by the Bank's board in fiscal 1996.
to global markets continues to be a major stra-  As a result of the stabilization and reform
tegic focus of Bank operations. Two of the      program supported by the credit, the inflation
year's larger Bank operations-the $120 million    rate has already dropped to less than one-third
Jordan Second Economic Reform and Develop-    of its 1994 level, the exchange rate has stabi-
ment Loan and the $75 million Tunisia Eco-      lized, and the growth rate has improved to
nomic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan-pro-   the point where the erosion in living standards
vide good examples of such support. Both were    has been halted. The main beneficiaries have
designed to promote enhanced private sector     included wage earners and the poor, who have
participation in the wider world economy,       seen prices of basic commodities that figure
thereby also facilitating important recent initia-    heavily in their expenditures-such as wheat
tives such as the proposed association of MENA   and wheat flour, sugar, rice, and milk-level off
countries with the European Union (EU); Tunisia   or even decline.
was the first country in the region to sign a Free  At the other end of the scale in terms of
Trade Agreement (FTA) with the EU, and Jordan    project size, an innovative $5 million loan on
has also signed. Egypt and Lebanon are cur-     IDA terms is helping promote microenterprise
rently negotiating an agreement. The Tunisia     development in the West Bank and Gaza, focus-
operation was prepared in cooperation with the    ing on firms with less than ten employees and
EU and features efforts to ready Tunisian firms  limited access to credit. This operation was the
for full participation in the FTA and to accelerate   first in the region to be jointly prepared by the
FTA implementation; the Jordan loan, in addition    Bank and the FC; its financing includes a $7.5
to supporting a range of measures to promote     million IFC investment as well as the Bank loan.
86 THE WORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Well-functioning infrastructure services-es-     V
pecially electric power, transportation systems,
and telecommunications networks-are critical
for the growth of internationally competitive
private sectors. Despite heavy past investment,
much of the region's infrastructure is unable to
provide the levels of service that industry needs.
Meanwhile, government budgets are increas-
ingly constrained, both by the nieed to maintain 
fiscal balances and by new demands for expen-
ditures in other areas, such as human resources
development. In recent years there has been a
growing worldwide trend for private investment                                                                     -
to supplement or supplant public financing of                    .l_L__
infrastructure, but private participation has as                X
yet been very limited in MENA. 'During fiscal
1997, however, the Bank helped to promote
private financing with a $ 100 mnillion guarantee
for a power sector restructuring and transmis-
sion expansion operation in Lebanon (for which
the Bank also made a $65 million loan). This
guarantee operation, and the expected further
expansion of the guarantee program, represents
an important broadening of the product mix
that the Bank offers its clients. In addition to                   ,______
the direct financial impact of guarantees, their
spin-off benefits are expected to be substan-
tial-for example, helping to improve the
overall climate for private investment in MENA                                                         ______
infrastructure by introducing MENA borrowers to
the longer end of the international bond mar-
ket; reducing private investors' perception of
risk; and lowering the costs of funds to borrow-                                                           M        - :
ers. Meanwhile, the IFC has beern a leader in pro-    Bank support for the West Bank and Gaza is evolving
moting private participation in infrastructure    away from emergency assistance toward support for
and expects to increase its infrastructure sup-   broad-based economy building.
port activities substantially in MENA. In fiscal
1997, the IFC invested in the first regionwide
specialized leasing management company,
headquartered in the United Arab Emirates;        opportunity to find jobs and participate fully in
the company will help meet infrastructure         the economy. Education is increasingly impor-
requirements by providing lease finance.          tant because it provides the essential foundation
for a well-trained, flexible, internationally
Sharing the fruits of growth                      competitive labor force. Past Bank support for
The World Bank has historically devoted sub-   major overhauls of education systems-such as
stantial resources to supporting expanded and     Jordan's comprehensive ten-year education re-
upgraded education and health services in MENA    form program-are beginning to bear fruit. In
countries so that more people could share the     Jordan's case the payoffs include a range of
SECTION THREE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 87



quantitative and qualitative improvements, in-       public works, focusing on agricultural infra-
cluding more and better classrooms, reduction        structure and environmental protection. The
in class crowding and double-shifting, and           project will not only help generate short-term
teachers who are better trained to use teaching      jobs but also improve long-term employment
methods based on problem solving rather than         prospects through asset creation via, for ex-
rote learning. A $75 million fiscal 1997 IDA         ample, on-farm land improvement, better
credit to Egypt for a national edlucation en-        erosion control, and opening of rural roads.
hancement program is expecteci to help pro-
mote a similarly significant outcome over time.      Securing environmentally sustainable growth
The credit, expected to be the first in a series of     A number of operations approved in fiscal
operations, is designed to support Egypt's long-     1997 focused on environmental constraints to
term basic education goals-to improve access         growth-especially in the water sector, where
to school, especially for girls; raise the quality of    the region faces increasing shortages of renew-
student learning and performance; and enhance        able freshwater. A $25 million Water and Sani-
overall system efficiency.                           tation Services project in Gaza approved in fis-
Supporting shared growth also involves pro-        cal 1997 (see box 3-6) will support the develop-
viding assistance for countries' t fforts to en-     ment of water and sanitation services by an in-
hance socioeconomic cohesion and reduce pov-    ternational private contractor under a manage-
erty by bringing new opportunities to people         ment contract. This is the first project of its
who may have been previously neglected or            kind in the region and an example of the Bank's
whose current prospects may be at least tempo-    interest in encouraging the injection of not only
rarily worsened by the effects of reform. An $89    private capital hut also private sector manage-
million loan to Algeria for the Rural Employ-        ment expertise into activities previously exclu-
ment Project addresses these concerns. The op-       sively carried out by public authorities. A $10.2
eration is helping create jobs for rural people      million IDA credit to Yemen (the Taiz Water
(whose unemployment rate-26 percent-is               Supply Project) exemplifies the participatory
substantially above the national average of 20       approach increasingly being used in project de-
percent) through support for labor-intensive         velopment. The operation involves bringing wa-
TABLE 3-17. WORLD BANK COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND NET
TRANSFERS IN MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA, FISCAL YEARS 1992-97
(millions of us dollars)
Algeria            Morocco             Tunisaa            Ttal region
srt                 start               start                strt
Item              1997  1997 1992-97'  1997  1997 1992-97-  1997  1997 1992-97  1997  1997 1992-97'
Undisbursed
commitments      921                1,330               707                  5,114
Commitments              89   1,443          108   1,992        242  1,410            915  8,002
Gross
disbursements          118   1,860         302   2,182         203  1,096          1,214  7,727
Repayments              249   1,251          326   1,827         175  1,016          1,057  6,023
Net
disbursements         -131    609           -24    355          28     S0            157  1,075
Interest and charges    129    737           231   1,548.        102   709             641  4,241
Net transfer            -260   -128          -255  -1,393        -74   -629           -484 -2,536
NoTE: The countries shown in the table are those wuth the largest borrowings of Bank funds duringfiscal 1996-97.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding
a. Disursementsfrom the IDA Specal Fund are induded through fiscal 1996.
88 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAI. REPORT 1997



ter to the city of Taiz from rural communities           and Morocco; a major review of the status and
about thirty kilometers away. Such transfers can         prospects of Morocco's rural sector (where liv-
be difficult, but in this case, local communities        ing standards and the quality of life are substan-
were consulted fully and early by the govern-            tially lower than in urban areas) along with
ment; they participated in the process of water          proposals for integrating the rural sector more
allocation; and they will take part in monitoring        effectively into the economy as a whole; a water
water extraction from local aquifers.                    strategy study in Yemen (one of the countries
already hardest hit by water scarcity); and a
Participatory analytical work                            groundbreaking health sector study in Jordan,
A participatory approach was also used in              which is expected to presage a major reform  of
preparing a number of important pieces of ana-           the sector. Health was also the subject of inten-
lytical work in fiscal 1997.These included               sified dialogue with Egypt, involving a large
Country Assistance Strategy Papers for Egypt             conference attended by intemational experts,
TABLE 3-18. OPERATIONS APPROVED DURING FISCAL YEAR 1997,
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Prncipal  ount
(millions)
Countr/project name                                  Date ofApproval    Maturities    SDR        USS
Rural Employment Project                                Mar 25, 1997    2002/2014      n.a.      89.00
Egypt
Education Enhancement Program                           Dec 24, 1996    2007/2031    51.50       75.00
Jorden
Second Economic Reform and Development Loan             Dec 11. 1996    2001/2014      n.a.     120.00
Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project          Jul 25, 1996    2002/2016     n.e.      20.00
Lebanon
Coastal Pollution Control and Water Supply Project      Feb 18, 1997    2002/2014      n.a.      53.10
Power Sector Restructuring and Transmission
Expansion Project                                      Nov 26, 1996    2006/2006      n.s.      65.00
Agriculture Infastructure Development Project           Sep 12, 1996    2002/2013      n.a.      31.00
National Roads Project                                   Jul 11, 1996    2002/2013     n.a.      42.00
Morocco
Railway Restructuring Project                           Dec 19, 1997    2002/2016      n.a.      85.00
Third Private Sector Development Project                Sep 12, 1996    2002/2016      n.a.      23.00
Tunisi
Second Munidpal Development Project                     Jun 24, 1997    2001/2012      n.a.      80.00
GreaterTunis Sewerage and Reuse Project                 May 29, 1997    2001/2013      n.a.      10.00
Greater Tunis Sewerage and Reuse Project                May 29, 1997    2001/2013      n.a.      50.00
Natural Resources Management Project                    May 13, 1997    2000/2011      n.a.      26.50
Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan                 Jul 25, 1996    2000/2011     n.a.      75.00
Yemen
Social Fund for Development Project                     May 22, 1997    2007/2037    21.70       30.00
Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project                  Dec 23. 1996    2007/2036    20.80       30.00
Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project                          Sep 3, 1996    2007/2036     7.10       10.20
Total                                                                            101.10      914.80
n.a. = not ap$licable (IUaD loan).
NonE: Excldes loans on mA terms to the West Bank and Gaza from tke Bank-managed Trust Fund fir Gaza and the West Bank.
SEC1IION THREE  MIDDl.E EASTI AN) NtRIniH AFRICA   89



BOX 3-6. THE WEST BANK AND GAZA-EXPANDING AND DIVERSIFYING
BANK GROUP SUPPORT
The World Bank has played a prominent role in  vestment Guarantee Fund. The Fund will enable
supporting economic development in the West Bank  MIGA to provide investment guarantees against the
and Gaza since 1993. Duringfiscal 1997 this role  major political risks of expropriation, transfer restric-
expanded substantially in terms of the number and  tion, war and civil disturbance, and breach of con-
value of operations approved by the executive direc-    tract, for new cross-border investments in West Bank
tors. It also broadened in the scope and diversity of  and Gaza.
activities supported as the lending program evolved  * Legal development, under which technical as-
away from its initial concentration on emergency as-    sistance, training and materials will be provided to
sistance and toward support for broad-based economy  help build the legal framework essential for a mod-
building over the medium term. Over the past three  ern market economy; and
years the program has grown in aggregate volume     * Palestinian expatriate professionals pro-
and value from one commitment for $20 million in  gram, under which skilled expatriates are being re-
fiscal 1995, to two commitments for a total of $60  cruited to fill skills and experience gaps in the upper
million in fiscal 1996, to seven for a total of $83.5  ranks of Palestinian Authority ministries. Substan-
million in fiscal 1997. This year's lendingfocused on    tial support has also been provided by bilateral and
support for sector policy and institution building as  multilateral donors and the private sector
well as on helping to build a better enabling environ-  Financing for these operations was provided on IDA
ment for private sector development. It included op-  terms from the Bank-managed Trust Fund for Gaza
erations for:                                    and the West Bank, which is supported by transfers
* Water and sanitation in Gaza, the first project    from IBRD income. During fiscal 1997 the executive
in the region to involve contracting out the manage-  directors approved a transfer of $90 million to the
ment of water and wastewater services to an inter-  trust fund, raising trust fund financing since fiscal
national commercial operator;                     1994 to a total of $230 million, about one-third of
* Microenterprise development, the first joint  which had already been disbursed by the close offis-
operation in the region with the rFc, providing credit    cal 1997. The Bank also administers the multidonor
to small businesses through local commercial banks;    Holst Trust Fund, which helps to finance the Pales-
* Community development, supporting commu-    tinian budget as well as emergency employment pro-
nity participation in designing, implementing and  grams. At the height of their operation at the begin-
maintaining small-scale public works, building on  ning of fiscal 1997, Holst Trust Fund employment
the job-creation programs initiated under the Holst  schemes provided the bulk of the funding for more
Fund (see below);                                than 40,000 jobs.
* Housing, a market-oriented initiative to estab-  The Bank also played a leading role in helping to
lish institutional and financial mechanisms to pro-  coordinate overall donor support for Palestinian eco-
mote long-term development of the housing sector, in-    nomic development, as Chair of the Consultative
cluding a secondary mortgage facility and support  Group (cG) for the West Bank and Gaza, as the
for low-income housing;                           Secretariat for the multidonorAd Hoc Liaison Com-
* Guarantee trust fund for private investment.    mittee (AHLC), and as Co-Chair of the Local Aid
MIGA signed an agreement with the Palestine Lib-  Coordination Committee (LAcc). Duringfiscal 1997
eration Organization, on behalf of the Palestinian  the CG held one ministerial meeting, the AHLC met
Authority, to establish the West Bank and Gaza In-    three times, and the LACC met on ten occasions.
donors, and stakeholders. The Bank is using its    the year. Project processing was streamlined (to
policy dialogue to support Egyptian-generated       shorten the time between identification of
strategies for comprehensive health reform.        country need and project approval); undis-
bursed balances on loans were reduced (so that
Responding to clients                              more money went to beneficiaries faster); and
Substantial efforts went into improving the      intensified portfolio management has reduced
Bank's responsiveness to clients' needs during     the proportion of "problem projects" in the
90 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



portfolio for the fourth year in succession. Au-  During fiscal 1997, TCP activities included
thority continues to be delegated to the field  macroeconomic analyses and policy advice in
through existing regional offices, and decisions  the areas of labor markets, private sector devel-
were taken during the year to relocate the new  opment and privatization, and export promo-
Egypt Country Management Unit to Cairo and    tion, together with sectoral studies in power,
to open a new resident mission in Morocco.    health, tourism, and water. Reimbursable ac-
tivities during the year accounted for nearly fif-
Technical cooperation with Gulf countries     teen years of staff time and were valued at
Over the past twenty years the Bank has op-  nearly $5 million. Nonreimbursable activities
erated a technical cooperation program (TCP) of    amounted to an additional two years of staff
reimbursable (and sometimes nonreimbursable)    time and nearly $0.5 million.
technical assistance to support the development
efforts of the upper-middle- and high-income
countries of the Cooperation Council for the
Arab States of the Gulf (GCc)--Bahrain, Ku-
wait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the
United Arab Emirates (UAE). The program helps
GCC countries realize key aspects of their eco-
nomic development strategies (for example, in
the areas of economic diversification, private
sector development, human resources policy,
and environmental protection); supports part-
nerships for pursuing local and regional devel-
opment activities; and makes available to GCC
partners technical advice and best professional
practice based on Bank experience.
SECTION THREE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA  91



SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED FOR IBRD, IDA,
IDA INTERIM TRUST FUND, AND TRUST FUND FOR GAZA
AND THE WEST BANK ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL 1997
AGRICULTURE
t§0Algeria               IBRD-$89 million. Some 40,000 man-years of rural employment will be
generated in poor rural areas of northwest Algeria to create productive
assets through natural resources management and to protect the
environment. Total cost: $123.6 million.
tO Argentina             IBRD-$125 million. About 120,000 small and medium-size commercial
farmers will benefit as land use is intensified to increase and diversify
agricultural productivity, and basic agricultural support services and rural
infrastructure are improved. Total cost: $357.2 million.
0  Argentina             IBRD-$19.5 million. Native forests and protected areas will be better
managed and conserved, and the rural economy will be boosted as tour-
ism is increased while ensuring the sustainability of natural resources.
Total cost: $30 million.
§  Azerbaijan            IDA-$14.7 million. Farm incomes are expected to rise as land is priva-
tized and farms are restructured in six raions. Vulnerable groups will be
provided with training and employment opportunities. Total cost: $28.82
million.
f-0§Brazil               IBRD-$90 million. About 15,000 poor farmer families will be able to
own land thus raising their incomes, quality of life, and productivity. The
project is testing a new approach to land reform which, if successful, will
be replicated. Total cost: $150 million.
tO§Brazil                IBRD-$24 million. Some 520,000 poor people in the rural areas of Rio
Grande do Norte will benefit from access to water supply and other
basic infrastructure and services, and from increased production,
incomes, and employment. Total cost: $32 million.
*O§Brazil                IBRD-$39 million. Some 650,000 of Pemambuco's rural poor will ben-
efit from access to water and other basic infrastructure and services, and
from increased production, incomes, and employment. Total cost: $52
million.
tO§Brazil                IBRD-$100 million. About 132,000 rural households, especially small
farmer and poor households, will benefit from better land management,
soil and water conservation, increased incomes, better living conditions
and access to basic services. Total cost: $208.4 million.
tO§Brazil                IBRD-$30 million. Some 810,000 poor people living in the rural areas of
Piaui will benefit from access to water and other basic infrastructure and
services, and from increased production, incomes, and employment. Total
cost: $40 million.
Data in this section have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of
project approval. Projects marked by § are included in the Program of Targeted Interven-
tions, and those marked by t are poverty-focused adjustment operations. Projects marked
by 0 indicate NGO involvement, from information sharing and consultation to active
participation. Projects with mechanisms for stakeholders to exercise shared
decisionmaking and higher levels of control and ownership are marked by t. Other
projects, although not so marked, also involve significant and systematic consultation with
stakeholders to enhance the prioritization of local needs and to engender ownership.
92 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



:tO§Brazil              IBRD-$60 million. A competitive grants system will promote high-
quality agricultural research and technological transfer in family farm
development, advanced technologies, natural resource management, and
agribusiness. Priority will be given to the generation and transfer of tech-
nology for poor, smallholder farmers. Total cost: $120 million.
0§ Brazil               IBRD-$9.6 million. A pilot project will test and evaluate water resource
management methodologies for a major project targeted to provide wa-
ter supplies to poor rural and urban populations in the semiarid State of
Ceara. Total cost: $12 million.
§  Cambodia             IDA (ITF)-$27 million. Smallholder farmers will benefit from increased
food security and income-earning opportunities. Total cost: $35.1 mil-
lion.
tO§ China               IBRi)-$30 million; IDA (ITF)-$150 million. Poverty will be reduced in
twenty-six of western China's poorest counties by increasing the incomes
and productivity and improving the health and educational status of
about 2.3 million upland poor. Total cost: $360 million.
0  China                IBRD-$430 million. About 103 million people in the North China Plain
will be protected from floods, much needed hydropower will be gener-
ated, irrigation water for about 2 million hectares provided, and stable
water supplies ensured for downstream cities and industries. Total cost:
$2,855.8 million.
China                IBRi)-$400 million. Water supply will.be expanded and the land and
water environment improved in Shanxi Province. Total cost: $1,351.6
million.
0  China                IBR]D-$120 million. About 53,000 rural families will increase their farm
incomes; livestock, fishery, and agroprocessing production will increase;
employment opportunities will be generated; and agricultural and rural
enterprises will be commercialized. Total cost: $239.8 million.
tO Comoros              IDA-$1.6 million. Foodcrop production will be increased through a pilot
project to improve agricultural services and strengthen institutional ca-
pacity. Total cost: $2.8 million.
tO§ Cte d'Ivoire        IDA (ITF)-$41 million. Natural resource and environmental degradation
will be reversed to secure sustainable agricultural production and
growth, alleviate poverty, and improve the living conditions of rural
people. Total cost: $61.5 million.
0  Croatia              IBRD-$42 million. Coastal forests destroyed by the war will be restored
and protected from fire. Total cost: $67.3 million.
0  Ecuador              IBRD-$21 million. Agricultural research capacity will be strengthened,
leading to increased agricultural productivity and output at the same
time as the natural resource base is enhanced or preserved. Total cost:
$27 million.
§  Georgia              IDA-$15 million. Agricultural productivity will be increased through de-
velopment of private sector farming and agroprocessing, the establish-
ment of credit unions, and land registration for the majority of the
country's poorest farmers. Total cost: $26.3 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  93



10§ Ghana               IDA (ITF)-$30 million. Poverty will be reduced and the quality of life
improved for at least 500,000 rural households through development of
basic sustainable village-level infrastructure. Total cost: $60 million.
tO§ Haiti               IDA-$21.5 million. A program to protect Haiti's forest and parks will be
initiated and alternative employment opportunities and agricultural sup-
port services will be available to farmers in the areas surrounding the
Pine Forest National Reserve and the Pic Macaya and La Visite National
Parks Reserve. Total cost: $22.5 million.
tO India                IDA-$150 million; IBRD-$175 million. The productivity and income of
farm families in two regions of Andhra Pradesh will be improved by
completing irrigation works and a social improvement program begun
under the Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation project. Total cost: $473.97
million.
tO§India                IDA-$28 million. Local communities will be involved in conserving glo-
bally significant biodiversity in seven protected areas. The project targets
the poorest people including tribal people and forest fringe villagers.
Total cost: $67 million.
t  Kenya                IDA-$39.7 million. The second phase of the national agricultural
research program will be supported. Total cost: $179.9 million.
0§ Lebanon              IBRD-$31 million. Farmers' incomes will increase and the environment
will be protected as agricultural land is terraced, runoff water harvested,
and new agricultural roads reach isolated areas. Poor farmers and the
most depressed rural areas are targeted. Total cost: $104.8 million
tO§Mali                 IDA (ITF)-$4.2 million. Technical assistance will relieve constraints to
small-scale private irrigation development, helping to increase farm pro-
ductivity and food security of smallholders. Total cost: $4.67 million.
O§Mauritania            IDA-$18 million. Farmers and herders from the poorest areas of the ru-
ral community will be empowered to better manage their natural re-
sources so that crop and livestock production are increased, and village
habitats preserved. Total cost: $25.9 million.
tO§Mexico               IBRD-$15 million. The people of 236 poor, indigenous communities will
be empowered to manage their forestry resources sustainably, and the
range of income-generating options available to them will be increased.
Total cost: $23.6 million.
0§ Mexico               IBRD-$40 million. About 7,800 low-income and poor aquaculture pro-
ducers and their families will benefit from better living standards, en-
hanced rural productivity, and proper environmental management in the
aquaculture sector. Total cost: $58.8 million.
tO§Pakistan             IDA-$56 million. Groundwater resources will be privatized and some
380,000 farm families, mostly small farmers cultivating less than six
hectares, will benefit from reduced water costs and enhanced agricultural
production. Total cost: $104.8 million.
t0 Peru                 IBRD-$85 million. Twenty-five irrigation systems will be rehabilitated,
benefiting more than 50,000 families, enhancing agricultural productiv-
ity, and promoting a market-oriented approach to water. Total cost:
$172.4 million.
94 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



tO Peru                IBRD-$51 million. The incomes of 75,000 poor rural families will in-
crease and poverty will be reduced through better natural resource man-
agement, soil conservation and reforestation, increased irrigation, and im-
proved agricultural practices. Total cost: $93.2 million.
O§Philippines          IBRD-$58 million. Improvements and repairs to the national irrigation
system and better water resources planning, development, and manage-
ment will increase the productivity and incomes of about 20,000 small-
farmer families. Total cost: $85.2 million.
*O§ Philippines        IBRD-$50 million. Farmers in agrarian reform communities will benefit
from improved rural infrastructure, agriculture and enterprise develop-
ment, and community development. Total cost: $105.7 million.
t  Romania              IBRD-$350 million. Support for the government's medium-term agricul-
tural policy will improve agricultural production, provide income-
earning opportunities for rural people, contribute to rural employment
generation, and raise rural living standards.
Senegal             IDA-$1.8 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be used to supplement
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit approved in fiscal 1995.
t  Tajikistan          IDA-$50 million. The government's reform program, aimed at stabilizing
the economy, easing foreign exchange shortages, reforming agricultural
policy, and targeting and improving social safety nets, will be supported.
tO Tanzania            IDA-$3 1.1 million. Smallholder farmers, many of whom are women, will
benefit from improved extension services that will increase livestock and
agricultural productivity. Total cost: $32.9 million.
tO Tanzania            IDA-$26.3 million. Water resources will be better managed and the effi-
ciency of smallholder farmers' irrigation schemes will be improved. Total
cost: $30.8 million.
t§ Tunisia             IBRD-$26.5 million. Natural resources will be restored and conserved
and the incomes of poor smallholders in fragile rural areas will increase.
Local people will be involved in development programs. Total cost:
$51.32 million.
t  Ukraine             IBRD-$300 million. Support for the government's reform program to
transform the agriculture sector to a market-based system will increase
market competition and encourage private ownership and investment in
land and other productive assets.
Yemen               IDA-$30 million. More than 124,000 people affected by the floods of
the summer of 1996 will benefit from restoration of agricultural infra-
structure, roads, bridges, and water supply. The impact of future floods
will also be reduced. Total cost: $35 million.
EDUCATION
O§ Burkina Faso        IDA (ITF)-$26 million. More and better-trained students will graduate
from secondary schools at reduced subsidy costs, and gender and income
equality will be increased. The project iargets ten provinces with the
lowest access to secondary education and the highest percentage of
people living below the poverty line. Total cost: $36.6 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  95



China                    IBRD-$10 million; IDA-$20 million. The supply of skilled labor will be
improved and increased as eighty-two secondary schools, which helped
prepare the project, upgrade the quality and efficiency of their voca-
tional education programs. Total cost: $68.4 million.
tO§ China                IDA-$85 million. About 6.2 million of the poorest children will benefit
from increased access to schools and better quality education. Total cost:
$136.6 million.
40§ Comoros             IDA (ITF)-$7 million. Access to quality basic education, especially for the
poor, will be improved; learning and academic achievement at the pri-
mary school level improved; and a vocational training system will be
launched. Total cost: $7.53 million.
0  Egypt                IDA (ITF)-$75 million. Girls will have greater access to education, in-
structional quality will be improved at all levels, and the education
system's efficiency will be improved. Total cost: $835 million.
t$§Guatemala             IBRD-$33 million. More children will be enrolled in pre-primary and pri-
mary schools and the quality of education will be improved. The project
targets the rural population, in particular indigenous children and girls, in
the poorest areas. Total cost: $46.8 million.
4O§Guinea-Bissau         iDA-$14.3 million. The first stage of the government's ten-year educa-
tion sector development program will be supported, expanding the cov-
erage of basic education and improving the quality of schools, especially
in poor rural areas. Total cost: $18.8 million.
t0§1ndonesia             IBRD-$104 million. Schoolchildren and out-of-school youth, particularly
those from rural areas and particularly girls, will benefit as junior and
secondary education is expanded and improved. Total cost: $154.1 mil-
lion.
Indonesia            IBRD-$71.2 million. The quality of undergraduate study programs will
be improved, providing a pool of better-trained graduates in fields of na-
tional priority, and public funds will be allocated more cost-effectively.
Total cost: $109.06 million.
§  Indonesia             IBRD-$98 million. Schoolchildren and out-of-school youth in five prov-
inces will have access to more and better Junior Secondary education.
The project is targeted especially to reach poor children in rural areas,
and girls. Total cost: $144 million.
§  Jamaica               IBRD-$28.5 million. The student loan program will be expanded, releas-
ing public resources for basic education and increasing opportunities for
students from poor families to finance their higher education. Total cost:
$38.5 million.
tO§Kenya                IDA (ITF)-$27.8 million. About 1.5 million pre-schoolers from poor
families will have access to early childhood development centers provid-
ing education, nutrition, and health services. Total cost: $35.1 million.
Moldova              IBRD-$16.8 million. About 636,000 students and 45,000 teachers will
benefit from education reforms, including improved curricula, new text-
books, in-service teacher training, and a modern assessment system. Total
cost: $20 million.
Morocco              IBRD-$23 million. Workers' skills will be improved and enterprise com-
petitiveness increased. Total cost: $95.3 million.
96 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



t§ Philippines         IBRD-$113.4 million. About 2.3 million 6- to 12-year-old children-70
percent of whom are from poor families-will benefit from improved
schools, textbooks, and educational material and better-quality education.
Total cost: $569.4 million.
Romania             IBRD-$50 million. The higher education system will be reformed to pro-
vide the skilled and knowledgeable managers, technical professionals, en-
trepreneurs, and societal leaders needed to sustain the transition to a
market economy. Total cost: $84 million.
O  Russia               IBRD-$71 million. The quality, quantity, governance, and efficiency of
education will be improved through a higher education innovation fund,
school textbook reform, and a pilot textbook procurement fund. Total
cost: $96.6 million.
Thailand            IBRD-$143.4 million. To provide more and better-trained scientists
and engineers to industry, undergraduate science and engineering pro-
grams will be improved in twenty-one public universities. Total cost:
$261.5 million.
ELECTRIC POWER AND OTHER ENERGY
Bosnia and          IDA-$35.6 million. Electricity services will be restored in major
Herzegovina         cities and vital industries. Total cost: $196.4 million.
China               IBRD-$400 million. Electricity supply and trade will be increased in
North China through construction of the Tuoketuo thermal power plant
and improvements in electricity transmission and distribution in Beijing.
Total cost: $1,103.6 million.
China               IBRD-$400 million. Shanghai's power shortages will be reduced, a pro-
gram for cost-effective air quality management developed, power sector
reform supported, and power entities' access to international financial
markets promoted. Total cost: $1,656.6 million.
O  Georgia             IDA-$52.3 million. Electricity supply will be increased, power shortages
reduced, and the security, reliability, and quality of the power supply im-
proved. Total cost: $75.8 million.
Hungary             IBRD-$60 million. Two complete single-cycle gas turbines will provide
more than 200 MW of generation reserve capacity enabling reliable and
stable power supply consistent with international standards. Total cost:
$96.1 million.
Indonesia           IBRD-$20 million. Rural households without access to grid electricity
will be able to improve their living conditions as solar home systems and
related credit are made available. Total cost: $118.1 million.
Indonesia           IBRD-$66.4 million. Private sector-led development of small power pro-
jects, using renewable energy, will be promoted. Total cost: $141 million.
O  Kenya               IDA-$125 million. Support will be extended for major policy and insti-
tutional reforms to create an efficient and environmentally sustainable
energy sector and promote investments to meet electric power demand.
Total cost: $699.9 million.
Lebanon             IBRD-$65 million. Power sector restructuring will be supported and
transmission capacity will be expanded. Total cost: $486 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  97



Mali                IDA-$17.1 million. 200 MW of power generation capacity will be in-
stalled at the Manantali dam to provide electric power to Mali, Senegal,
and Mauritania through about 1,300 kilometers of transmission lines.
Total cost: $445 million.
Mauritania         IDA-$ 11.1 million. See project description for the regional hydropower
development project in Mali, above.
Russia             IBRD-$40 million. Government planning and implementation of an elec-
tricity sector reform will be supported. Total cost: $70.3 million.
0  Senegal             IDA-$10.5 million. See project description for the regional hydropower
development project in Mali, above.
0  Sri Lanka           IDA-$24.2 million. About 26 MW of environmentally sustainable gener-
ating capacity, including a pilot wind farm and grid-connected mini-
hydros, will be installed and electricity services will be available for up to
32,000 off-grid rural customers through solar home systems and village
hydro schemes. Total cost: $55.3 million.
Thailand            IBRD-$145 million. The power distribution system in Bangkok will be
upgraded and electricity distribution reliability improved. Total cost:
$373 million.
Thailand            IBRD-$ 100 million. The power distribution network will be automated,
upgraded, and expanded to deliver power to new areas and meet a surge
in demand. Total cost: $347 million.
Ukraine            IBRD-$317 million. A competitive electricity market will be developed
to increase power supply, improve maintenance of power plants, and up-
grade emission control equipment. Total cost: $377.6 million.
ENVIRONMENT
40§Honduras            IDA-$34 million. Modernizing the land administration system and im-
proving natural resources management will enhance land security for
more than 1 million people, improve nutrition and food security for
6,500 rural poor families, and improve forest and biodiversity conserva-
tion. Total cost: $41.8 million.
India               IDA-$50 million. Environmental management capacity will be enhanced
to help the government implement environmental priorities outlined in
the Environment Action Program. Total cost: $61.48 million.
t0 Kenya               IDA-$12.8 million. Fisherfolk, smallholder farmers, and local communi-
ties surrounding Lake Victoria in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda will ben-
efit from restoration of the lake's ecosystem. Total cost: $77.6 million.
i0 Madagascar          IDA (ITF)-$30 million. Environmental degradation will be reversed and
sustainable use of natural resources promoted through support of the
second phase of Madagascar's National Environmental Action Plan. Total
cost: $155 million.
10 Malawi              IDA (ITF)-$12.4 million. Environmentally sustainable development will
be promoted and environmental issues integrated throughout the devel-
opment process through support for Malawi's Environmental Support
Programme. Total cost: $13.7 million.
98  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



1O§Nicaragua          IDA--$30 million. Rural poverty will be reduced and natural resources
management improved to benefit about 300,000 people-mainly poor
farmers and fisherfolk. Total cost: $40.4 million.
nt§Panama              IBRD-$22.5 million. Rural poverty and natural resource degradation will
be reduced and priority biodiversity areas conserved through a pilot pro-
gram to channel financial resources to rural communities to help them
promote sustainable productive systems. Total cost: $39 million.
t§ Senegal             IDA-$5.2 million. The growing demand for household fuels will be met
without loss of forest cover, the ecosystem's carbon sequestration poten-
tial, or biodiversity. Rural communities, and especially rural women, will
benefit from employment opportunities and economic development.
Low-income households will have increased access to more reliable and
efficient charcoal stoves and modern fuels. Total cost: $19.9 million.
tO Sri Lanka           IDA (ITF)-$14.8 million. The government's program to improve environ-
mental management, integrate environmental considerations in the de-
velopment process, and pilot programs to reverse environmental degrada-
tion will be supported. Total cost: $20.76 million.
$0 Tanzania            IDA-$10.1 million. See project description for Kenya, above.
$0 Uganda              IDA-$12.1 million. See project description for Kenya, above.
$0 Zambia              IDA-$12.8 million. The government's efforts to achieve sustainable de-
velopment by building capacity to improve the management of natural
resources at the national and local level will be supported. Total cost:
$20.8 million.
FINANCE
O§ Bangladesh          IDA-$105 million. About 1.2 million poor people, 90 percent of whom
are women, will have access to credit so they can start small businesses
such as basket weaving, poultry and livestock rearing, street vending, and
rice husking. Total cost: $137 million.
Colombia           IBRD-$15 million. The environment and regulatory capacity for financial
markets and pension reform will be improved. Total cost: $20 million.
Ghana               IDA-$20.9 million. Support will be provided for the government's Pub-
lic Financial Management Reform Program to enhance efficiency, ac-
countability, and transparency of public financial management functions.
Total cost: $30.81 million.
Guyana              IDA-$2.2 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be used to supplement
the Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit, approved in fiscal
1995.
Hungary             IBRD-$225 million. Enterprise and financial sector reform will be sup-
ported.
Indonesia           IBRD-$16.4 million. The financial and performance audit capabilities of
the country's supreme audit board will be enhanced. Total cost: $26.5
million.
4O Kyrgyz Republic     IDA-$16 million. Private farmers and agribusiness enterprises will have
access to credit and community-based financial institutions will provide
financial services to rural people. Total cost: $21 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED 99



0§ Mexico              IBRD-$30 million. Technical assistance to establish rural financial mar-
kets and pilot a project to test and develop financial services for small
and microentrepreneurs in rural areas will help reduce rural poverty and
will demonstrate the suitability of rural financial markets for private sec-
tor participation. Total cost: $103 million.
Mexico              IBRD-$400 million. The first phase of the government's Contractual Sav-
ings Development Program, which will establish legal, regulatory, and in-
stitutional frameworks for reforming the old-age security system, will be
supported.
Mongolia           IDA-$ 10 million. The government's banking and enterprise reform pro-
gram will be supported.
Mongolia            IDA-$2 million. The govemment's program to restructure the enterprise
and financial sectors will be supported.
Peru               IBRD-$183 million. Support will be provided to restructure commercial
bank and private suppliers' debt.
Slovenia            IBRD-$49.3 million. The investment needs of the emerging private sec-
tor will be supported as long-term financing is made available through
three borrowing banks.
Tunisia             IBRD-$75 million. International competitiveness will be improved and
the private sector upgraded to accelerate Tunisia's integration in world
markets.
West Bank and Gaza Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank-$5 million. A microenterprise
credit program, provided through three participating banks, will help re-
duce poverty, promote private sector development, and create employ-
ment. Total cost: $23 million.
West Bank and Gaza  Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank-$10 million. The climate for at-
tracting foreign investment and promoting private sector development
will be improved through a political risk guarantee scheme. Total cost:
$50 million.
West Bank and Gaza  Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank-$3 million. Management and tech-
nical skills will be improved in key ministries and agencies and transpar-
ent, independent, and international recruitment processes established.
Total cost: $9 million.
0  Zambia              IDA-$45 million. The ongoing reform program will be supported
through private sector, financial intermediation, and institutional devel-
opment. New investments will be generated, exports will increase, and
new employment will be created as firms become and stay internation-
ally competitive. Total cost: $52.25 million.
HEALTH, POPULATION, AND NUTRITION
40§Argentina           IBRD-$ 100 million. The health of women and children in about twenty
poor municipalities will be improved through maternal, child health and
nutrition, and early childhood development programs. Total cost: $171
million.
0§ Argentina           IBRD-$15 million. The risk of contracting HIV will be reduced through
HIV/AIDS- and STD-related health promotion and disease prevention activi-
ties. Total cost: $30 million.
100 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Bosnia and           IDA (ITF)-$15 million. Support for developing a modem, cost-effective,
Herzegovina          and fiscally sustainable hospital service to reduce the burden of disease
and suffering for people most affected by the war, will be provided.
Total cost: $33.5 million.
tO§ Cambodia            IDA (irT)-$30.4 million. Death and sickness from preventable diseases,
especially malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS-to which the rural poor
disproportionately fall victim-will be reduced and the health system in-
frastructure will be rehabilitated. Total cost: $35.6 million.
O§ India                 IDA-$142.4 million. More than 1.5 million tuberculosis patients will be
cured and many more people potentially freed from risk of infection:
the poor are most susceptible to tuberculosis and are the main users of TB
services. Total cost: $176.4 million.
tO§India                IDA-$164.8 million. An enhanced and more effective malaria control
program mainly to benefit the rural poor, including tribal and indigenous
people, will reduce death and illness from malaria. Total cost: $203.9
million.
tO§ India               IDA (ITF)-$248.3 million. The government's family welfare program will
be improved, reducing death and sickness among mothers and infants
and reducing unwanted fertility. Total cost: $308.8 million.
!:O§India                IDA-$19.5 million. The health, economic and social status of women liv-
ing in rural areas in six participating states will be improved. Total cost:
$53.8 million.
§  Indonesia             IBRD-$28.5 million. The prevalence of iodine deficiency will be lowered.
Total cost: $45.3 million.
O§Niger                 IDA-$40 million. Health sector development will be supported in five
districts, resulting in improved access to preventive and curative health
care for 1 million people.
§  Paraguay              IBRD-$21.8 million. The health of poor people, particularly women and
children, will be improved in six of the poorest and most rural depart-
ments of Paraguay. Total cost: $31.2 million.
Russia               IBRI)-$66 million. Improving the quality and efficiency of health care in
two pilot oblasts will test and evaluate reform measures for national rep-
lication. Total cost: $98.4 million.
Senegal              IDA-$14.9 million. The burden of malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocer-
ciasis, and other infectious diseases will be reduced, especially benefiting
people in rural areas where the diseases are most prevalent. Total cost:
$17 million.
t0 Sri Lanka             IDA-$18.8 million. The government will address major public health
problems, including malaria, STD/AIDS, and malnutrition. Total cost: $22.6
million.
§  Turkey                IBRD-$14.5 million. The access and quality of primary health care ser-
vices, particularly for poorer people, will be improved in two provinces
and will serve as the basis for extending primary health care reforms
nationwide. Total cost: $18.6 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  101



INDUSTRY
0  Armenia             IDA(ITF)-$16.8 million. The viability and bankability of Armenian com-
panies will be increased and the lending capacity of the banking system
strengthened. Total cost: $40.33 million.
Bosnia and          IDA(ITF)-$10 million. Industry and production will be supported
Herzegovina        through an emergency industrial restart project, which includes a set-
aside for a political risk guarantee facility. Total cost: $350 million.
0  Madagascar          IDA-$23.8 million. The government's reform program aimed at develop-
ing the private sector and privatizing state-owned enterprises will be
supported. Total cost: $35.5 million.
Philippines         IBRD-$60 million. The Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority's regulatory
and management capacity will be strengthened and infrastructure devel-
opment supported. Total cost: $108 million.
Russia             IBRD-$85 million. Enterprise reform will be supported. More than
250 medium and large private enterprises will be restructured and a sus-
tainable capacity will be developed in the private sector for market-based
restructuring. Total cost: $100 million.
MINING/OTHER EXTRACTIVE
0§ Burkina Faso        IDA(ITF)-$21.4 million. Private investment in mining will be promoted,
the capacity for environmental management established, and social,
health, safety, and environmental conditions in the artisan mining
community, a disadvantaged group, will be improved. Total cost:
$22.5 million.
t  Ukraine             IBRD-$300 million. The first stage of the coal sector reform program will
be supported, reducing the need for fiscal subsidies by enhancing pro-
ductivity and addressing urgent social issues.
MULTISECTOR
Bosnia and          IDA-$90 million. Economic growth and political stability will be
Herzegovina         supported through measures to develop new government structures
on the state and federation levels, reintegrate the economic system,
reorganize public finance, and create employment.
t  Bulgaria            IBRD-$40 million. Shortages of vital commodities will be reduced to al-
leviate some of the day-to-day hardship of the public and build confi-
dence in the government's stabilization and reform program.
t  Bulgaria            IBRD-$30 million. The government's stabilization and reform program
will be supported and social safety nets strengthened.
t  Chad                IDA(ITF)-$25 million. The government's program to restore critical
public sector capacity, reorient expenditures toward priority develop-
mental sectors, and create an environment favorable to private sector
development will be supported.
Croatia            IBRD-$95 million. The government's enterprise and banking reform
program will be supported.
102  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Croatia            IBRD-$102 million. Transport networks within Croatia and between
Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will be repaired and reconstructed
and land mines will be cleared. Total cost: $122.3 million.
Ghana              IDA-$3.5 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be made available to fi-
nance the Private Sector Adjustment Credit approved in fiscal 1995.
Haiti              IDA-$12 million. Institutions implementing the government's economic
reform program will receive technical and financial support to improve
tax and customs administration, public expenditure management and
human resources management and to modernize and reorient the role of
the state. Total cost: $58.2 million.
Honduras           IDA-$20.1 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be made available to
supplement the Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment
Credit, approved in fiscal 1996.
Jordan             IBRD-$120 million. The government's cross-cutting reforms targeted at
close integration with global markets and establishing an investment-
friendly, efficient business environment will be supported.
Kenya               IDA-$26.6 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be used to finance the
Structural Adjustment Credit approved in fiscal 1996.
t  Latvia             IBRD-$60 million. The government's efforts to promote private sector
development and improve public sector management, including delivery
of basic social services, will be supported.
Lithuania          IBRD-$80 million. Government reforms to continue the transition to-
ward a market economy will be supported, placing the economy on a
sustainable growth path with a dynamic private sector as its engine of
growth.
t  Macedonia, Former  IBRD-$30 million; IDA-$30 million. The government's reform program,
Yugoslav Republic of which includes measures to help mitigate the adverse affects of
unemployment and the losses of small producers, will be supported.
t  Madagascar         IDA (ITF)-$70 million. Government reforms aimed at reviving investor
confidence and accelerating investment and economic activity, and in-
creased social spending, in particular on basic health and primary educa-
tion, will be supported.
Madagascar         IDA-$0.6 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be used to supplement
the Structural Adjustment Credit (see immediately above).
Malawi             IDA-$3.4 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be used to supplement
the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Credit, approved in
fiscal 1996.
Mauritania         IDA-$0.6 million. Funds from IDA reflows will help finance the Public
Resource Management Credit approved in fiscal 1996.
t  Mozambique          IDA (ITF)-$ 100 million. The government's medium-term economic re-
form program will be supported. The component to liberalize the cashew
market will enhance the incomes of over 1 million small farmers, half of
whom are women.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  103



t  Niger               IDA-$30 million. Government reforms aimed at restoring macroeco-
nomic balance and confidence, improving public resource management-
including reallocating public funds for primary education and basic health
care-and promoting efficient private sector growth will be supported.
Peru               IBRD-$ 100 million. The pension system will be reformed and capital
market efficiency will be improved.
Russia             IBRD-$600 million. The government's reform program, to lay the founda-
tion for renewed economic growth and maintain macroeconomic stabili-
zation over the medium term, will be supported.
Rwanda             IDA-$50 million. The Emergency Reintegration and Reconstruction Pro-
gram will be supported providing basic services to returning refugees and
the existing population and consolidating economic recovery and stability.
Sierra Leone       IDA-$0.15 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to supple-
ment the structural adjustment credit approved in fiscal 1994.
South Africa       IBRD-$46 million. Sustainable economic growth and job creation will be
promoted as South African firms, especially smaller firms, become more
effective in adjusting to ongoing trade liberalization and meeting the chal-
lenges of competing in global markets. Total cost: $88.6 million.
t  Tanzania            IDA-$125 million. The government's program to reform public expendi-
ture, social services (particularly basic education and primary health ser-
vices for the rural poor), privatization of parastatals and the banking and
petroleum sectors will be supported.
Tanzania           IDA-$3.9 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be provided to support the
structural adjustment credit (see immediately above).
Ot Uganda              IDA(ITF)-$125 million. The government's reform program to enhance
fiscal sustainability and public expenditure management-including
allocating public funds to improve services delivery in primary health
and education, agricultural extension services, and road maintenance-
will be supported.
Ukraine            IBRD-$70 million. The export potential of newly emerging private and
privatized enterprises will be developed. Total cost: $84 million.
West Bank and Gaza  Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank-$5.5 million. Support for establish-
ing a modern and unified legal framework and an effective and efficient
judiciary will be provided. Total cost: $5.624 million.
t  Zambia              IDA-$90 million. The government's economic reform program-aimed at
reducing poverty through private sector-led growth and improving the
delivery of social services-will be supported.
Zambia              IDA-$7.8 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be used to finance the
Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (see immediately above).
OIL AND GAS
Azerbaijan          IDA-$20.2 million. The country's natural gas system will be rehabilitated
and modernized. Total cost: $24.6 million.
Georgia            IDA-$1.4 million. Georgia's capacity to develop its oil sector, by attract-
ing large-scale private investment in oil transit, will be enhanced. Total
cost: $1.5 million.
104  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Kazakhstan         IBRD-$109 million. The Uzen oil field will be rehabilitated and modem-
ized to reduce declining oil production, clean up and protect the sur-
rounding environment, and facilitate commercialization. Total cost: $136
million.
Turkey             IBRD-$5 million. The viability of building an environmentally sustain-
able pipeline route for exporting crude oil from Baku in Azerbaijan
through Turkey to the international markets will be independently evalu-
ated. Total cost: $5.25 million.
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Argentina           IBRI-$300 million. The government's provincial pension fund reform
program will be supported.
Argentina           IBRD-$20 million. About 3.4 million pensioners will benefit from
improved allocation of pension benefits and payments. Total cost: $40
million.
Bangladesh         IDA-$2.9 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be made available to help
finance the Jute Sector Adjustment Credit, approved in fiscal 1996.
Bolivia            IDA-$5.4 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be made available to help
finance the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit, approved in fiscal
1996.
Brazil             IBRD-$125 million. The costs of reform and high-priority investments
in the state of Rio Grande do Sul will be supported. Total cost: $461
million.
Brazil             IBRD-$45 million. Support for the State of Mato Grosso's reform efforts
will enhance efficiency in public service delivery through privatization,
restructuring, or liquidation of state enterprises, and concessioning of
public services. Total cost: $281 million.
Cameroon           IDA-$25.2 million. Funds from IDA reflows will help finance the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit approved in fiscal 1996.
Colombia           IBRD-$12.5 million. Regulatory and policy reform will promote private
participation in infrastructure services. Total cost: $33 million.
C6te d'Ivoire       IDA-$54.6 million. Funds from IDA reflows will be made available to
help finance the Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit ap-
proved in fiscal 1996.
Djibouti           IDA-$6.5 million. Technical assistance will help the government imple-
ment its economic reform program. Total cost: $7.3 million.
0  Ecuador             IBRD-$10.7 million. Support for this first phase of the govemment's ju-
dicial reform program will improve the efficiency of the judicial system
and make decisionmaking more predictable. Total cost: $14.3 million.
El Salvador        IBRD-$24 million. Technical assistance support will assist the govern-
ment in modernizing and more effectively and efficiently managing the
public sector, and enhancing private sector development. Total cost:
$51.5 million.
Gabon               IBRD-$ 10 million. Technical assistance for privatization and regulatory
capacity building to increase private sector investment will be supported.
Total cost: $12 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  105



Guatemala           IBRD-$13 million. Selected infrastructure sectors will be readied for
privatization and concessioning and related legal and regulatory frame-
works will be established. Total cost: $18.5 million.
Hungary             IBRD-$7.75 million. The government's borrowing needs and borrowing
costs will be reduced through development of the central treasury sys-
tem and optimization of the budgeting and debt-management processes.
Total cost: $10.7 million.
Jamaica             IBRD-$28.4 million. The government's efforts to. modernize public enti-
ties into performance-oriented executive agencies, operating with greater
autonomy and a modern resource base, will be supported. Activities that
can be better performed by the private sector will be privatized. Total
cost: $57 million.
Kazakhstan          IBRD-$15.8 million. The treasury department's management will be
modernized and computerized to help improve management of govern-
ment expenditure. Total cost: $21.7 million.
Kazakhstan          IBRD-$ 10 million. A pilot real estate registration system will be estab-
lished in accordance with recently adopted legislation. Total cost: $13.28
million.
t  Kyrgyz Republic     IDA (ITF)-$44 million. The government's program to streamline the bud-
getary planning, execution and audit system, and intergovernmental rela-
tions, will be supported and essential social services in health and educa-
tion, including those targeted to the poorest oblasts, will be ensured.
Madagascar          IDA-$13.83 million. Reform of public administration and the judiciary
will be supported, thereby increasing effectiveness, efficiency, and trans-
parency in the public sector and providing critical support to the long-
term success of economic and social reform. Total cost: $15.09 million.
Moldova             IDA-$9 million. Support for government reforms to strengthen the com-
petitive environment and develop the private sector will be provided and
the managerial capacity of recently privatized enterprises will be in-
creased. Total cost: $14 million.
Morocco             IBRD-$85 million. The railway system will be restructured. Total cost:
$614 million.
Pakistan            IDA-$28.8 million. Public sector accounting standards, reporting sys-
tems, and financial administrative procedures that conform to interna-
tionally accepted accounting principles will be developed. Total cost:
$37.2 million.
Russia              IBRD-$22.6 million. The institutional capacity for sound economic
analysis in support of market-oriented structural reforms will be built.
Total cost: $36.8 million.
SOCIAL SECTOR
tO§Argentina           IBRD-$200 million. Temporary income support will be provided for
about 350,000 poor unemployed workers to implement public works
programs that will improve social and economic infrastructure in poor
communities. Total cost: $1,200 million.
106  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



tO§Belize              rBRD-$7 million. Poor people in disadvantaged communities will have
greater access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services, in-
cluding water and sanitation, health, education and training, and credit.
Total cost: $11.67 million.
0  Bosnia and          IDA-$7.5 million. Demobilized soldiers, returning refugees, and others
Herzegovina         displaced by war will be reintegrated into productive jobs in the civilian
economy. Total cost: $20 million.
0  Bosnia and          IDA-$10 million. 100,000 man-months of labor-intensive employment
Herzegovina         will be created and people unemployed as a result of war will clear war
damage and rehabilitate small-scale public infrastructure. Total cost:
$45 million.
$0§Bosnia and          IDA (iTF)-$7 million. About 7,000-10,000 microenterprises or
Herzegovina         income-generating activities will provide employment and help restart
the economy and local institutions. NGOS that provide services to the
self-employed and microenterprises will be strengthened. Total cost: $18
million.
Bulgaria            IBRD-$24.3 million. The government's reform of the social insurance
program will be supported to eliminate the need for budgetary subsidy
and lay the groundwork for guaranteeing old-age income security. Total
cost: $32.3 million.
tO§Jamaica              IBRD-$20 million. Support for small-scale social and economic infra-
structure and social services will be channeled to the poorest and most
vulnerable communities through the Jamaica Social Investment Fund.
Total cost: $50 million.
t0§Latvia              IBRD-$ 18.1 million. The social insurance program will be reformed to
improve the affordability and equity of the social safety net and improve
resource allocation while increasing public savings. Total cost: $38.6
million.
t$§Lithuania           IBRD-$3.7 million. Government institutions will be strengthened to pro-
vide affordable social security and develop community social care ser-
vices. Total cost: $12.31 million.
0§ Panama               IDA-$28 million. Communities in the poorest districts will have access
to small-scale infrastructure and disadvantaged people will have access to
social services. Pilot programs will improve school attendance of children
in the poorest districts and microcredit will be provided to poor micro-
entrepreneurs. Total cost: $80 million.
t$§Peru                 IBRD-$150 million. The government's poverty alleviation efforts will be
supported; they target the poorest areas and people, including indigenous
people, by providing social infrastructure and assistance. Total cost: $430
million.
t  Romania              IBRD-$50 million. Support for the government's social protection pro-
gram will protect the most vulnerable groups of society from the nega-
tive effects of economic reform and stabilization measures to be carried
out throughout 1997-98.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATnONS APPROVED  107



t  Russia              IBRD-$800 million. The adverse effects of the transition to a market
economy on poor and vulnerable people will be mitigated and an effec-
tive and sustainable system of income support and poverty relief, to meet
the requirements of a market economy, will be built.
I O§ Tajikistan        IDA-$12 million. The incomes of about 250,000 poor people will be im-
proved and local capacity to implement participatory methods of reduc-
ing poverty will be developed. Total cost: $12.7 million.
Ukraine            IBRD-$2.6 million. The government's housing and municipal pricing re-
form program will be supported. Administration of the Housing and Mu-
nicipal Services Allowance Program will be improved by automating ap-
plications and data. Total cost: $3 million.
West Bank and Gaza  Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank-$ 10 million. Financing for small-
scale infrastructure projects in villages and small municipalities will be
provided. Total cost: $30 million.
0§Yemen                IDA-$30 million. Poverty will be reduced, living conditions improved
and income-generation opportunities for the poor will result from com-
munity development services for poor communities and development of
small and microenterprises. Total cost: $80 million.
TRANSPORTATION
Argentina           IBRD-$300 million, Provincial roads will be improved and maintained.
Total cost: $1,500 million.
0  Argentina           IBRD-$200 million. The Buenos Aires mass transport system will be im-
proved, private sector participation in railways will be supported, traffic
accidents will be reduced, and air quality improved. Total cost: $400 mil-
lion.
Armenia             IDA-$15 million. Supplemental financing will be provided for the Arme-
nia Highway Project approved in fiscal 1996 to expand the level of main-
tenance of Armenia's road network. Total cost: $36.9 million.
t0§1Bangladesh        IDA-$133 million. Improved rural transport and markets will reduce
poverty by creating employment and income-generating opportunities.
Total cost: $192.36 million.
0  Benin               IDA-$40 million. Support for the government's Transport Investment
Program will reduce transport time and vehicle operating costs, reduce
the cost of transporting goods, and encourage trade and agricultural pro-
duction. Total cost: $45.22 million.
Bosnia and          IDA-$7.5 million. Land mines will be cleared to make way for urgent
Herzegovina         reconstruction and recovery priorities. Total cost: $67 million.
Brazil              IBRD-$300 million. Improvements and sustainable maintenance of the
main highway network will reduce road transport costs. Total cost:
$1,250 million.
Brazil              IBRD-$70 million. The Rio Grande do Sul State highway network will be
made more serviceable and road transport costs will be reduced. Total
cost: $168 million.
108 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



China               IBRD-$300 million. Traffic congestion will be relieved and socio-
economic development stimulated along the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway.
Total cost: $658 million.
China               IBRD-$400 million. Two key sections of the Jingzhu expressway will be
constructed, relieving traffic congestion and improving interregional
trade and commerce between Hunan and Guangdong. Total cost:
$1,132.8 million.
0  Dominican Republic  IBRD-$75 million. The highway network will be modernized and bottle-
necks to the main engines of development growth, tourism, and free
trade zones will be removed. Total cost: $122.5 million.
Eritrea            IDA-$6.32 million. A feasibility study and technical assistance will pro-
vide the basis for improving the road network. Total cost: $7.2 million.
India              IBRD-$350 million. Lower freight and passenger transport costs will re-
duce transport bottlenecks affecting economic development and will
benefit the traveling public, agricultural and industrial producers, con-
sumers, and local communities in Andhra Pradesh. Total cost: $485.5
million.
0  India               IBRD-$51.5 million. Technical assistance will be provided to state gov-
ernments to support road infrastructure finance and maintenance reform.
Total cost: $68 million.
tO India               IBRD-$50 million; IDA-$100 million. Assets lost in the floods and cy-
clones in Andhra Pradesh last year will be restored and actions will be
taken to reduce future hazards. Total cost: $220 million.
Indonesia           IBRD-$105 million. The service and economic efficiency of Indonesia's
railways will be improved. Total cost: $207.3 million
Lao People's       IDA-$48 million. Transport costs will be reduced through construction
Democratic Republic and upgrading roads and establishing a road maintenance program.
Total cost: $68.92 million.
Latvia              IBRD-$20 million. Roads will be safer and better maintained, transport
costs will be reduced, and a private road construction industry will be
developed. Total cost: $56.9 million.
Lebanon             IBRD-$42 million. A component of the government's road rehabilitation
program (about 400 kilometers of road) will be supported and a user
charge system established to help finance the overall program. Total cost:
$67.8 million.
Lithuania           IBRD-$19 million. The road network will be preserved and road mainte-
nance operations improved, prolonging the life of the highway system,
reducing road maintenance costs, improving road conditions, and reduc-
ing vehicle operating costs. Total cost: $45 million.
Mexico              IBRD-$475 million. Transport efficiency will be increased and costs on
the federal road network, particularly along major export transport corri-
dors, will be reduced. Total cost: $865 million.
0  Poland              IBRD-$67 million. Access to the ports of Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-
Swinoujscie will be improved making services more efficient and com-
petitive. Total cost: $145.6 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  109



Romania             IBRD-$150 million. Roads will be rehabilitated and brought to interna-
tional standards, traffic congestion will be reduced and traffic safety im-
proved. Total cost: $553 million.
Senegal              IDA (ITF)-$6.6 million. More affordable, more reliable and safer public
transport services will be provided in Dakar, and private sector provision
of urban transport services will be promoted. Total cost: $8.7 million.
Turkmenistan         IBRD-$34.2 million. The efficiency and cost-effectiveness of urban trans-
port will be improved, on a sustainable basis, in three municipalities. Total
cost: $38.29 million.
Uruguay              IBRD-$76 million. Transport infrastructure will be rehabilitated to facili-
tate cost-efficient transport of forestry products from forest to port-of-
exit. Total cost: $152 million.
Vietnam             IDA (ITF)-$195.6 million. Transport infrastructure will be improved and
transport costs reduced. Total cost: $236.7 million.
§  Vietnam              IDA-$55 million. Access to rural communities will be improved and
upgraded in fifteen of the country's poorest provinces. Total cost: $60.9
million.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Bosnia and           IDA-$15 million. About 20,000 war-damaged homes will be
Herzegovina          repaired on an emergency basis enabling displaced people to return to
their communities. Total cost: $50 million.
§  Brazil               IBRD-$ 100 million. Low-income residents' access to basic urban infra-
structure will be improved in seventy-seven of Bahia's municipalities. To-
tal cost: $222 million.
0  Indonesia            IBRD-$1 10 million. About 1.6 million people living in fifty-three of Bali's
urban centers will benefit from improved urban infrastructure services in-
cluding water, sanitation, roads, drainage and flood control, and solid waste
management. Total cost: $334.7 million.
t§ Indonesia            IBRD-$155 million. Urban services-including roads, water supply, sanita-
tion, drainage, solid waste management, markets, and transport termi-
nals-will be improved in Sulawesi, where a disproportionately large per-
centage of people still live in poverty. Total cost: $272 million.
tO§Indonesia           IBRD-$140.1 million. Five million villagers on Java and Sumatra will have
better lifestyles as drinking water is made available in the dry season and
roads, bridges, and other infrastructure give them access to markets and
basic services, normally unreachable in the rainy season. Total cost: $159.6
million.
Jordan              IBRD-$20 million. Market-based financing for mortgage lending will be
mobilized and responsibility for developing land and housing will be
shifted to the private sector. Total cost: $142 million.
t0 Lithuania            IBRD-$ 10 million. Energy efficiency will be improved in residential and
public buildings and privatization of the housing sector will be supported.
Total cost: $20.6 million.
110  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



t0§Madagascar          IDA-$35 million. Roads, drainage, and other infrastructure will be im-
proved in Antananarivo and six regional towns, and poor people's income
and employment will be increased. Total cost: $45.8 million.
0§ Mali                IDA (ITF)-$80 million. One-and-a-half million people in ten cities will
benefit from improved basic infrastructure services. Living conditions, es-
pecially of low-income people, will be improved through affordable in-
frastructure services and income-generating employment opportunities.
Total cost: $93.5 million.
§  Niger               IDA-$20 million. Labor-based methods of rehabilitating urban infra-
structure will reduce poverty by creating employment opportunities for
the unskilled urban poor, provide municipalities with skills to develop
and manage their infrastructure, and promote local firms and materials.
Total cost: $28 million.
Russia             IBRD-$31 million. A program to rehabilitate St. Petersburg's City Center
will be supported. Total cost: $46.1 million.
$0 Tunisia             IBRD-$80 million. Local government infrastructure and services will be
enhanced and efficiency of public sector management at the local level
will increase. Total cost: $220 million.
West Bank and Gaza  Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank-$25 million. More and better af-
fordable housing will be available and housing mortgage and buyer assis-
tance systems will be established to benefit lower-income families. Total
cost: $30 million.
0  Zimbabwe            IDA (ITF)-$12.25 million. Rural District Councils' capacities to plan,
implement, and manage essential welfare, growth, and rural development
services will be developed within the context of the government's overall
decentralization program. Total cost: $19.75 million.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
t0 Argentina           IBRD-$200 million. Loss of life and devastation of property from flood-
ing will be reduced and flood-damaged infrastructure will be restored.
Total cost: $488 million.
Bangladesh         IDA-$80.3 million. Dhaka's first primary water treatment plant will be
built to relieve the city's water shortages. Total cost: $175.8 million.
40§China               IDA(ITF)-$70 million. The well-being of 4.6 million poor rural people
will improve through better drinking water and sanitation conditions.
Total cost: $134 million.
0§ Guinea              IDA(ITF)-$25 million. Living and health condition's of poor people will
be improved through better access to safe, affordable water and sanita-
tion. Total cost: $28 million.
0§ Kazakhstan          IBRD-$7 million. A pilot water supply project will be implemented in
the Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons in the Aral Sea disaster zone and a de-
tailed engineering design for an Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation
Project will be prepared. Total cost: $7.4 million.
Lebanon             IBRD-$53.1 million. Water resources will be protected, safe drinking wa-
ter provided, and harmful wastewater pollution in three coastal cities
will be eliminated. Total cost: $308 million.
SUMMARIES OF OPERATIONS APPROVED  111



$0 Nepal                    IDA-$18.3 million. About half a million rural people will benefit from
raised living standards and better health and hygiene through improve-
ments in water supply and sanitation. Total cost: $21.25 million.
Romania                 IBRD-$25 million. Bucharest's water supply system will be rehabilitated
and repaired giving the city's people more reliable and better quality wa-
ter. Total cost: $50 million.
0    Tunisia                IBRD-$60 million. The health of the urban population, including about
150,000 people living in low-income areas, will be improved, the sewer-
age infrastructure to meet future demand provided, urban and coastal
pollution reduced, and natural resources conserved. Total cost: $106.74
million.
IO§Turkmenistan             IBRD-$30.3 million. Safe drinking water, basic sanitation, and basic pub-
lic health interventions will be provided to about 200,000 people in an
area where 50 percent of the population are children under age 14 and
women. Total cost: $33.7 million.
tO§Uzbekistan               IBRD-$5 million. A pilot project will provide citizens of Kizkitken, a
peri-urban settlement of 34,000 people in the Aral Sea disaster zone,
with access to safe drinking water, while laying the groundwork for a
full-scale project. Total cost: $5.4 million.
t  Vietnam                  IDA (ITF)-$98.61 million. About 2.5 million residents in four major cities
will have improved access to acceptable quality water. Total cost:
$142.66 million.
West Bank and Gaza  Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank-$25 million. The quality, quantity
and management of water and wastewater services will be improved in
sixteen towns and villages in Gaza. Total cost: $28 million.
tO Yemen                    IDA-1 0.2 million. A pilot project to mitigate immediate water shortages
in the city of Taiz and identify new water sources to avert a sustained wa-
ter shortage will, if successful, be replicated in other parts of the country.
Total cost: $1 1.1 million.
A project must meet at least one of two criteria to be included in the im: (a) the project
includes a specific mechanism for identifying and reaching the poor; or (b) the proportion
of the poor among project beneficiaries is significantly larger than their proportion in the
overall population. An adjustment operation is considered to be poverty-focused when it
meets at least one of the following criteria: (a) it reorients public expenditures in favor of
the poor, including spending on basic social services and rural infrastructure; (b) it elimi-
nates distortions and regulations that limit poor people's access to labor and credit mar-
kets, productive resources, and basic social services-as well as policy-induced distortions in
input or output pricing-in order to help the poor to increase their income-generating oppor-
tunities; (c) or it supports safety nets that protect the most vulnerable.
112 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



SECTION FOUR                                     WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
AND ADMINISTRATION
Institutional renewal
Throughout the fiscal year,    ships, developing better     will be measured and justified
every part of the Bank has     products and services, and     by the development impact of
been involved in shaping a     strengthening staff capacities;    everything it does. Demand
long-term framework for the    many examples are discussed    for products and services and
institution's future direction  throughout the regional and   progress in meeting business
and laying the groundwork for   program sections of this      standards and performance
renewal. At the heart of the   Annual Report.                 will be among the indicators
resulting Strategic Compact      Retooling the Bank's knowl-  of success. The Bank will track
lies the objective of increasing    edge base. Because access to  progress made by client coun-
development impact to reduce   lessons learned and best prac-    tries using the World Develop-
poverty more effectively.      tice is key to development     ment Indicators.2 This assess-
The compact requires sus-    effectiveness, a world-class   ment of broad development
tained commitment to four      knowledge-management sys-      progress in borrowing member
related priorities for renewing    tem is being built across the  countries complements the
the Bank over the next thirty    institution to collect, synthe-  Bank's ongoing work to en-
months.                        size, and disseminate knowl-   hance the quality and impact
Refueling current business ac-   edge and make it more readily    of its operations by strength-
tivity. Reallocating resources to   accessible to staff, clients, and  ening evaluation of its activi-
frontline services to protect  partners. Better access to infor-  ties; and it is in line with rec-
the level and quality of client    mation is also a prerequisite  ommendations made by the
service will enable the Bank to   for a more decentralized    Development Committee's
respond to priority programs,  Bank-a key factor for the      Task Force on Multilateral De-
such as the rapid growth of    institution's renewal. The four    velopment Banks and the IDA
the Europe and Central Asia    thematic networks set up dur-    Deputies. The foundation for
regional portfolio. It will allow    ing fiscal 1997,1 the capacity-    establishing a stronger more
the Bank to fund the increased   building work of the Eco-    comprehensive framework to
costs of operating field offices,   nomic Development Institute    track the progress of Bank op-
speed up improvement of        (EDI), and the Learning and    erations and assess their im-
portfolio management,          Leadership Center's expanded    pact was put in place in July
strengthen overall quality as-    training programs already are  1996, when all new operations
surance, meet its commit-      playing pivotal roles in making   were required to be fitted
ments under the HIPc Debt      learning a priority throughout    with specific performance-
Initiative, and meet new client   the institution.            monitoring indicators. For
demands.                         Revamping institutional ca-  education projects, for ex-
Refocusing the development   pabilities. To achieve the objec-   ample, performance is moni-
agenda. Effectiveness is being    tives of the Strategic Com-  tored through indicators such
increased through more atten-    pact, the Bank is realigning its
tion to social and environmen-   information systems, location  1. The Human Development
tal sustainability and the     of work, human resource strat-   Network; the Environmentally and
Socially Sustainable Development
changing roles of the private  egy, and financial management   Network; the Finance, Private Sector
and public sectors. The        to support a more agile, cre-  and Infrastructure Network; and the
groundwork for refocusing the    ative, and client-oriented work   Poverty Reduction and Economic
development agenda already     environment.                   Management Network.
2. World Bank. 1997. World Develop-
has begun, through building      The Strategic Compact de-    ment Indicators 1997. Washington,
and strengthening partner-     mands that the Bank be ac-     D.C.
countable, and the results of
the Bank's renewal program
SECTION FOUR WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION  113



as net enrollment by level and gender, repetition    systems for distilling and using the lessons
and dropout rates, student-teacher ratios and   learned from evaluations and from successes
textbook-pupil ratios; for environment projects,    and failures.
indicators include rate of deforestation, area of  Quality Assurance Group. Established in fiscal
natural habitat, soil nutrient levels, pollution  1996 to help improve development effective-
levels, and water quality.                      ness, QAG encourages quality in Bank perfor-
Performance indicators are drawn from six-    mance by undertaking assessments of a sample
teen sector-specific "menus" (such as agriculture,   of the Bank's work and promoting systemic im-
education, finance, and poverty reduction) ad-  provements by catalyzing changes in the Bank's
justed to the needs of each operation and the   policies, programs, and processes based on as-
feasibility of collecting data in particular coun-  sessment results. QAG operates mainly through
tries. About 40 percent of operations approved  expert panels, which are customized for each
before July 1996 have also been retrofitted with    assignment and are drawn from Bank managers
performance indicators, and the remainder will    and staff as well as experts from outside the
be retrofitted before the end of fiscal 1998.   Bank.
The Bank has also set targets for its own per-  During fiscal 1997, QAG supported two main
formance that are measured in terms of respon-    objectives: improving the quality of the overall
siveness to clients (setting business standards for   portfolio through the Portfolio Improvement
elapsed times between the stages of project de-    Program (PiP) and ensuring the highest quality
velopment, for example) and by quality-at-     in new projects entering the portfolio through
entry and portfolio-management evaluations.     quality-at-entry assessments.
Progress toward these targets will be reported    The PiP uses the new concept of "projects at
annually to the Executive Board.                risk" to identify projects that may not achieve
Good performance is a prerequisite for       their objectives and focuses on projects, sectors,
effectiveness. Therefore, in addition to improv-    lending instruments, and countries with the
ing portfolio-management practices, selectivity  most serious performance problems, where in-
in lending will be exercised through the country   creased management attention is expected to
assistance strategy (CAS) process. Policy perfor-  have a high payoff. In fiscal 1997, for example,
mance will continue to be reflected in the      the PIP targeted twenty-five country portfolios,
assessment of creditworthiness and risk for IBRD    fourteen sectors or lending instruments, and
countries and the criteria for IDA lending     fifty of the largest projects at risk. Proactive
allocations.                                    portfolio management had a positive impact on
several country portfolios that had high concen-
Development effectiveness                       trations of projects at risk; for example, almost
Quality in operations. Improving the quality of   half of projects in the Brazilian portfolio were
the portfolio has been a prominent objective in    restructured, closed, or upgraded, and intensive
fiscal 1997. Senior management elevated it to   supervision of the Russian portfolio paid off
the highest levels in discussions with clients,  through fewer problem projects and higher dis-
and regional management has pursued it aggres-   bursement ratios.
sively. To spearhead efforts to develop improved  Quality-at-entry assessments aim to improve
systems for measuring operational effectiveness    the quality of new projects entering the portfo-
and for strengthening dissemination and learn-  lio. Twenty-five sample projects were assessed
ing, a vice president was appointed to address  for appropriate project concept, institutional ca-
three major issues: to find ways to evaluate    pacity, technical, economic and social soundness,
lending and other services more systematically  and for the quality of Bank decisionmaking. Both
and comprehensively; to evaluate the impact of    Bank staff and borrowers responded well to the
Bank operations at an earlier stage so programs  program, and based on experience with quality-
can be amended, redesigned, and refined as they
are being implemented; and to develop better
114 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



at-entry assessments, work began in 1997 to    evaluation work undertaken by the regional
develop similar programs to assess the quality of   offices and other departments, independent
supervision and the quality of Bank economic   evaluation is undertaken by the Operations
and sector work.                               Evaluation Department (OED). While CODE,
Despite these efforts and the significant im-  Bank management, and OED maintain their dis-
provement in some country portfolios this year,   tinctive institutional roles and perspectives, they
it will take many years before work done in fis-    work collaboratively to encourage learning, dis-
cal 1997 is fully reflected in improved project  semination, and organizational change.
completion ratings and evaluation results.       In fiscal 1997, OED shifted its emphasis from
The Annual Report on Portfolio Perfonnance   mainly project-by-project reviews to more
(ARPP) for fiscal 1996,3 which informed the    country program evaluations (the country assis-
board of the status of the portfolio of ongoing  tance reviews) and assessments of the Bank's
operations, used the concept of projects at risk  overall contribution to global development
this year to better identify projects likely to  priorities.
require attention.                               Participatory evaluation. The Bank's ongoing
The ARPP showed that problem projects were    transition toward a full-service institution re-
concentrated in a relatively small number of   quires a self-evaluation system for nonlending
countries and noted the importance of country-    services as well as increased involvement of
or borrower-related factors for portfolio perfor-    borrowers and stakeholders in evaluation. To
mance-especially those related to political sta-    measure development effectiveness properly,
bility, macroeconomic policies and performance,   the views of people affected by a project are
and implementation capacity. While the Bank    considered.
has little control over these factors, other inputs  In Sri Lanka, two rural development projects
under Bank control can and are being addressed.   were evaluated using stakeholder participation.
In fiscal 1997 these included improving project    Evaluators obtained the views of principal
design, promoting greater borrower commit-     stakeholders, direct beneficiaries, line agencies,
ment and beneficiary participation, increasing  project managers, and the government through
supervision, and focusing management attention   interviews and focus groups. Conclusions of the
more directly, all of which are expected to im-  resulting report were discussed at a workshop
prove the ultimate development impact of       organized by the Sri Lankan authorities. Similar
Bank-financed operations.                      techniques were used to evaluate two projects
in support of Bolivia's successful social invest-
Operations evaluation                          ment fund.
Operations evaluation at the World Bank has    Lending. While much of the evaluation of
a twofold mandate: to measure the extent and   completed operations in the Bank is decentral-
efficiency of results of operational programs and   ized and is based on self-assessments, such as
activities and to feed the information back into    implementation completion reports (ICRS) pre-
the formulation of new directions, policies, and  pared by the regional offices, these assessments
procedures. The results and recommendations    are subject to independent OED review, and a
drawn from evaluation are reported to the      sample of operations is subjected to field perfor-
Board of Executive Directors and form the basis   mance audits. In fiscal 1997, OED reviewed 313
for designing and implementing policies and    ICRs and reported on their quality to the Bank's
new lending operations.                        board and management; issued Project Perfor-
Operations evaluation is overseen by the     mance Audits for seventy-nine completed
director general (DGO), who reports directly to  operations; and completed impact evaluation
the executive directors through the Committee
on Development Effectiveness (CODE). In addi-
tion to monitoring the large volume of self-   3. World Bank. 1997. Annual Report on Portfolio Performance
for Fiscal 1996. Washington, D.C.
SECTION FOUR WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION  115



reports for eighteen projects and two sectors        tention to coordination with other donors, an
along with six sector policy evaluations and two    increased role for the Bank's resident mission,
country assistance reviews. The cumulative total   and more economic and sector work and port-
of operations subjected to ex post evaluation to-   folio management. The OED country assistance
taled 4,442 at the end of the fiscal year. Several    review for Morocco identified obstacles to sta-
studies were completed during the year, includ-    bilization and recommended a stronger focus on
ing a synthesis of the Bank's experience with        fiscal problems. Many of the recommendations
fifty agricultural adjustment operations since       made in an OED study of the Bank's assistance to
1979.4                                               Poland were reflected in the 1997 country assis-
OED's country assistance reviews evaluate the      tance strategy. And an OED study of the Bank's
relevance of the Bank's overall country assis-       relationship with Argentina led to greater focus
tance strategy and the efficacy of lending and       on the fiscal performance of provincial govern-
nonlending instruments. The Zambia country           ments, the level and efficiency of social sector
assistance review, for example, examined the         spending, and the financial sector in the CAS.
Bank's focus on policy-based operations and its      4. Meerman, Jacob. 1997. Reforming Agriculture: The World
effects on the country's adjustment efforts over    Bank Goes to Market. A World Bank Operations Evaluation
the last decade. It recommended continued at-        Study. Washington, D.C.
BOX 4-1. WORKSHOP ON LARGE DAMS
Large dams used to be synonymous with modern-    developing world's dams that are funded by others.
ization and development, but over the past two de-  The World Conservation Union (IucN) offered to co-
cades their adverse environmental and social conse-  host a two-day workshop with the World Bank at
quences have made these investments the subject of  IUCN headquarters in Gland, Switzerland, in April
considerable public criticism. Over the years the  1997. This event brought together dam builders and
World Bank has been at the forefront of introducing  some of their strongest critics and included represen-
new policies and standards to mitigate potentially  tatives of construction companies, governments,
negative impacts. Nevertheless, controversy has    NGOs, and other experts to try to find a common ap-
continued to surround these projects, and the     proach to these divisive investments.
public debate has become polarized in the wake       While the workshop participants were not unani-
of some highly visible cases of shortcomings in    mous on all the issues, there was a widespread ac-
implementation.                                    ceptance that dams can deliver benefits but that they
Early in fiscal 1997, OED prepared a desk assess-  must be planned within an overall water and energy
ment of fifty Bank-financed large dams that sought  sector strategy that takes full account of all economic,
to address the fundamental issues at the heart of  engineering, social, and environmental costs. There
this debate. Most of the dams had undergone project    was also a consensus on the need for continued
appraisal before the introduction of the Bank's re-  World Bank involvement to help ensure that invest-
settlement and environmental guidelines, and many  ments in this sector are economically, socially and
projects had not, therefore, been implemented to the  environmentally sustainable. Participants also
standards that are now demanded. The report noted  agreed that if beneficiaries and affected people were
that the Bank's threshold of acceptability for dams  involved earlier in the planning, minor incremental
has been reformed in fundamental ways as the       costs up front could deliver substantial benefits to
Bank learned the lessons of experience and grew   people and the environment.
more sensitive to social and environmental concerns.  The meeting concluded with agreement on a spe-
The report was discussed by the Committee on    cific timetable for follow-up, with the Bank and IUCN
Development Effectiveness, which agreed that it pro-  agreeing to work with other participants to create an
vided a useful platform to engage the various stake-  independent review body. It would look at costs and
holders in large dams in an informed discussion.   benefits of dams already built and establish interna-
This could result in an improvement in the stan-   tionally acceptable standards to govern the assess-
dards observed not only for the large dams that the  ment, planning, operating, and financing of future
Bank finances but also for the 97 percent of the   dams.
116  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



TABLE 4-1. TRENDS IN IBRD AND IDA LENDING, FISCAL YEARS 1995-97
(millions of us dollars)
1995                        1996                         1997
Sector                  IBRD     IDA      Total      IBRD     IDA      Total      IBRD      IDA    Total
Agriculture            853.3  1,232.0   2,085.3    1,413.8  1,105.1  2,518.9   2,810.6   735.9  3,546.5
Education             1,280.6   816.2   2,096.8      920.8    784.9  1,705.7      762.3   255.1  1,017.4
Electric power
and other energy    1,802.5    439.0   2,241.5   2,459.2    347.9  2,807.1    1,613.4    275.8  1,889.2
Environment             755.1     68.9    824.0      534.6   348.1    882.7        22.5   224.2    246.7
Finance               2,935.4    129.3   3,064.7    1,199.2    231.2  1,430.4     993.7   201.1  1,194.8
Health, population
and nutrition        451.3    671.2   1,122.5    1,495.2    858.2  2,353.4      245.8   694.1    939.9
Industry                175.0    123.2    298.2      217.0     31.7   248.7       145.0    50.5    195.5
Mining/Other
extractive              -       24.8      24.8     570.8    121.2   692.0       300.0     21.4    321.4
Multisector           2,295.0    821.5   3,116.5     906.3a   759.2  1,665.5    1,373.0   813.6  2,186.6
Oilandgas              461.5    141.6    603.1        30.0     25.6     55.6      114.0    21.6    135.6
Public sector
management            636.2    236.4    872.6   1,036.0    840.2  1,876.2       729.7    190.2   919.9
Social sector          644.0   290.8    934.8        440.0   554.5    994.5    1,303.7      66.5  1,370.2
Telecommunications     325.0       -      325.0       35.0       -      35.0        -         -        -
Transportation        2,099.3    104.1   2,203.4   2,236.9    535.7  2,772.6   3,084.7    607.0  3,691.7
Urban development     1,466.0   261.0   1,727.0      632.0    236.5   868.5       646.1    162.3   808.3
Water supply and
sanitation            672.3   309.2    981.5       529.1     80.7    609.8      380.4   302.4    682.8
Total            16,852.5  5,669.2  22,521.7  14,655.9  6,860.7 21,516.6   14,524.9  4,621.7 19,146.6
-Zero.
a. Includes the refinanced/rescheduled overdue charges of $168 million for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
A workshop on large dams, held in fiscal               Trust Fund). A total of 141 IBRD loans to forty-
1997, is a model for OED's efforts to use Bank           two countries were approved; the 100 IDA cred-
evaluation of projects to engage in participatory        its went to fifty countries.
workshops to ensure that lessons do not simply              The biggest increase in commitments was in
remain on paper but lead to action for im-               the Europe and Central Asia region, where
proved policies and projects (see box 4-1).              sixty-seven projects were approved for a total of
During the year, OED issued its annual review          $5,054.8 million. Comparable figures for the
of evaluation results,5 which synthesizes trends         previous year were sixty-one projects for
in the Bank's operational performance and re-            $4,394.6 million. The sharpest drop occurred in
views experience gained in special topic areas,          the Africa region. The decrease is largely ex-
and its annual report on operations evaluation.          plained by greater selectivity in lending, the ac-
celerated move by the Bank out of failed invest-
Commitments and guarantees                               ment models, and the slow uptake of new
World Bank commitments (IBRD and IDA com-              strategies focused on decentralized implementa-
bined) amounted to $19,146.6 million in fiscal           tion. Figure 4-1 provides a picture of IBRD and
1997, a decrease of $2,370 million (11                   IDA lending by region.
percent) over fiscal 1996's total (see table 4-1).          Adjustment lending amounted to $5,085.7
Commitments by the IBRD amounted to                      million or 26.5 percent of Bank commitments,
$14,524.9 million, while IDA credits totaled
SDR 3,260 million or $4,621.7 million equiva-
lent (SDR 1,1 68 million was from the Interim             5. Mora, Linda, and Ulrich Thumm. 1997. 1995 Evaluiation
Results. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
SECTION FOUR  WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION   117



FIGURE 4-1                                          Lending for transportation-at $3,691.7
Projects Approved for Bank and IDA                million-led all sectors by volume, followed by
Assistance by Region, Fiscal Year 1997            agriculture at $3,546.5 million and lending for
(US$ millions)                                    multisector purposes at $2,186.6 million (see
figure 4-2).
LAC                        4,5631                In fiscal 1997, three World Bank guarantees,
totaling $420 million, were approved by the
Executive Board.
Disbursements
ECA                            5,055             Gross disbursements by the IBRD to countries
totaled $13,998 million, an increase of $626
million, or 4.48 percent, over fiscal 1996's
$13,372 million. IDA disbursements amounted
to $5,979 million, up $95 million from the pre-
EAP                           4,866            vious year. The increase in disbursements for
both IBRD and IDA was particularly noteworthy
in the Europe and Central Asia region.
Disbursements, by source of supply. Projects
financed by the World Bank require procure-
up from the previous year's 21 percent. The fis-    ment from foreign and local sources to achieve
cal 1997 adjustment total includes $120 million    project goals. Disbursements are made pri-
in rehabilitation import loans and a $183 mil-    marily to cover specific costs for foreign pro-
lion debt reduction loan (see table 4-2).          curement and some local expenditures.
The three largest borrowers from the IBRD         The procurement rules and procedures to
were China ($2,490 million), Russia ($1,715.6     be followed in the execution of each project
million), and Argentina ($1,479.5 million). The   depend on individual circumstances. Three
three largest borrowers of IDA credits were India    considerations generally guide the Bank's
($903 million), Vietnam ($349.2 million), and     requirements: the need for economy and effi-
China ($325 million).                             ciency in the execution of a project; the re-
Seven projects in the West Bank and Gaza,       quirement to give all eligible bidders from bor-
totaling $83.5 million and funded from the        rowing and nonborrowing member countries an
Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank, were       opportunity to compete in providing goods and
approved.                                         works financed by the Bank; and the need to
FIGURE 4-2 IBRD and IDA Commitments, FiscalYear 1997
(US$ millions)
Environment $247  1%
Industry $196- 1%                               M lning and other extractive, $321 - 2%
Oil and gas, $136  1%            *                Urban development, $808  4%
e-.-       V Water supply and sanritation, $683 - 4%
Agriculture, $3,547 - 19%  *               v        Education,$1,017-5%
-   Health, population and nutrition, $940 -5%
Public sector management, $920  5%
Transportation, $3,692- 19%                           Finance,$1,195-6%
Multisector $2,187- 1%     e                  -   Socia sector, $1,370-7%
Electric power and other energy, $1,889  10%
118  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



TABLE 4-2. WORLD BANK ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 1997
(amounts in millions of us dollars)
World Bank financing
Country                    Project                                                IBRD       IDA    Total
Sector adjustment loans
Bangladesh                 Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)             0.0      2.9      2.9
Bolivia                    Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)  0.0      5.4      5.4
C6te d'lvoire              Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)    0.0  54.6  54.6
Croatia                    Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan        95.0      0.0    95.0
Ghana                      Private Sector Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)          0.0      3.5      3.5
Guyana                     Private Sector Development (IDA reflows)                0.0      2.2      2.2
Hungary                    Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan       225.0      0.0   225.0
Jordan                     Second Economic Reform and Development Loan           120.0      0.0    120.0
Mauritania                 Public Resource Management Credit (IDA reflows)         0.0      0.6      0.6
Mexico                     Contractual Savings Development Program               400.0      0.0   400.0
Mongolia                   Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit         0.0     10.0    10.0
Romania                    Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                    350.0      0.0   350.0
Russia                     Social Protection Adjustment Loan                     800.0      0.0   800.0
Senegal                    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)     0.0      1.8      1.8
Ukraine                    Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan                    300.0      0.0   300.0
Ukraine                    Coal Sector Adjustment Loan                           300.0      0.0   300.0
Structural adjustment loans
Argentina                  Provincial Pension Reform Adjustment Loan             300.0      0.0   300.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina     Transition Assistance Credit                            0.0     90.0     90.0
Cameroon                   Second Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)       0.0     25.2     25.2
Chad                       Second Structural Adjustment Credit                     0.0     25.0     25.0
Honduras                   Public Sector Modernization
Honduras                   Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)              0.0    20.1      20.1
Kenya                      Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)              0.0     26.6     26.6
Kyrgyz Republic            Public Sector Resource Adjustment Credit                0.0     44.0    44.0
Latvia                     Structural Adjustment Loan                             60.0      0.0    60.0
Lithuania                  Structural Adjustment Loan                             80.0      0.0     80.0
Macedonia, FYR of          Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit                  30.0     30.0     60.0
Madagascar                 Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)              0.0      0.6      0.6
Madagascar                 Structural Adjustment Credit                            0.0     70.0     70.0
Malawi                     Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Credit
(IDA reflows)                                         0.0      3.4      3.4
Mozambique                 Third Economic Recovery Credit                          0.0    100.0    100.0
Niger                      Public Sector Adjustment Credit                         0.0    30.0      30.0
Peru                       Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                        100.0      0.0    100.0
Romania                    Social Protection and Adjustment Loan                  50.0      0.0     50.0
Russia                     Structural Adjustment Loan                            600.0      0.0   600.0
Sierra Leone               Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)              0.0      0.1      0.1
Tanzania                   Structural Adjustment Credit                            0.0    125.0    125.0
Tanzania                   Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)              0.0      3.9      3.9
Tunisia                    Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan               75.0      0.0     75.0
Uganda                     Third Structural Adjustment Credit                      0.0    125.0    125.0
Zambia                     Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit            0.0    90.0      90.0
Zambia                     Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (IDA reflows)    0.0  7.8    7.8
Debt-Reduction Loans
Peru                       Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan                  183.0      0.0    183.0
Rehabilitation-Import Loans
Bulgaria                   Rehabilitation Loan                                    30.0      0.0     30.0
Bulgaria                   Critical Imports and Rehabilitation Loan               40.0      0.0    40.0
Tajikistan                 Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection Credit      0.0     50.0     50.0
Total                                                                          4,138.0   947.7  5,085.7
SECTION FOUR  WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION   119



TABLE 4-3. IBRD AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS FOR FOREIGN
AND LOCAL EXPENDITURES
(amounts in millions of us dollars)
IBRD and IDA
Net advance
Foreign'               Local             disbursementsb       Total
Period             Amount        %        Amount        %       Amount         %      amount
Cumulative to
June 30, 1992    112,471        58        77,730       40       5,129          3     195,330
Fiscal 1993         9,813        56         7,887       45        -325         -2      17,375
Fiscal 1994         9,010        56         7,442       47        -473         -3      15,979
Fiscal 1995         9,094        51         8,724       49          -97        -       17,720
Fiscal 1996        10,013c       52         8,787       46         456          2      19,256
Fiscal 1997         8,733        44        10,543       53         487          2      19,763
Cumulative to
June 30, 1997   159,134        56       121,112      42        5,176         2      285,423
NoTE: This table corresponds to Table 2-3 in the 1996 Annual Report. Foreign expenditures are expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the borrower or guarantor, for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than the territory of the borrower or guarantor Local expenditures are expenditures in the currency of the
borrower or guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the borrower or guarantor Details may not add
to totals because of rounding.
a. Amounts exclude debt-reduction disbursements of $2,523 million through FY92, $515 million in FY93, $655 million in
FY95, and $213 million in FY97. Amounts include disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral
adjustment loans of $556 million in FY96 and $3,333 million in FY97.
b. Net advance disbursements are advances made to special accounts net of amounts recovered (amounts for which the
Bank has applied evidence of expenditures to recovery of the outstanding advance).
c. Disbursements for FY96 include the refinanced/rescheduled overdue charges of $168 million for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
help the development of local contractors and            Appendix 7 shows disbursements made in
manufacturers in borrowing countries. The Bank    fiscal 1997 by the IBRD and IDA for local pro-
prescribes conditions under which preferences         curement by current borrowing countries and
may be given to domestic manufacturers and,           disbursements made for goods, works, and
where appropriate, to domestic contractors.           services procured from them by other Bank
Table 4-3 shows consolidated foreign and lo-        borrowers (foreign procurement) for projects
cal disbursements for the IBRD and IDA through        funded by the Bank.
the end of fiscal 1992 and for the period fiscal         Appendix 8 shows the amounts disbursed
1993 through fiscal 1997. Advance disburse-           from the IBRD and IDA separately for foreign pro-
ments consist of payments made into special           curement of goods, works, and services from se-
accounts of borrowers, from which funds are           lected member countries in fiscal 1997 and
paid to specific suppliers as expenditures are        cumulatively through fiscal 1997.
incurred. Because balances in these accounts             Appendix 9 shows the proportion of foreign
cannot be attributed to any specific supplying        disbursements from the IBRD and IDA for specific
country until expenditures have been reported         categories of goods and services provided by se-
to the Bank, these are shown as a separate            lected member countries in fiscal 1997.
category.                                                Appendix 10 provides a summary listing
Table 4-4 provides details on foreign dis-          of the amounts paid to eligible World Bank
bursements by countries eligible to borrow
from the World Bank and nonborrowing coun-
tries6 for the IBRD and IDA separately.               6. Appendix 5 lists countries eligible for IBRD and IDA funds.
120   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



borrowing country suppliers and nonborrowing        credits. Disbursements for Project Preparation
country suppliers in each fiscal year from 1995     Facility advances are excluded for both the IBRD
to 1997 under investment projects. Amounts          and IDA.
disbursed are compared with respect to signifi-
cant categories of goods procured from foreign      Cofinancing and trust fund programs
suppliers. The extent to which eligible borrow-       Cofinancing and trust funds are important
ing countries and nonborrowing countries            mechanisms through which the Bank pursues
participated in supplying these major categories    partnerships. They provide additional resources
of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is    to support development activities and are a
also compared.                                      forum to exchange information and views with
Under simplified procedures for structural        other institutions. A principal focus of the
and sectoral adjustment loans, approved by the      Bank's renewal effort during fiscal 1997 was
Executive Board in fiscal 1996, disbursements       building and maintaining such partnerships.
are no longer directly linked to procurement          In addition to working with partner institu-
under adjustment loans. Thus, while appendixes    tions through parallel or joint cofinancing and
7 to 10 report on disbursements from the IBRD       trust funds activities, the Bank is also expanding
and IDA, they do not include disbursements         its efforts to coordinate more broadly its funds
under adjustment loans. The information in          with financing from other donors within the
appendix 11 reflects adjustment loan disburse-      context of country and sector investment pro-
ments to each borrower as prorata shares of that   grams. An important pillar of these efforts is the
borrower's eligible imports from supplying          Special Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA).
countries, using import data drawn from United    The fourth phase of the SPA was launched in fis-
Nations trade statistics.                           cal 1997: donors indicated that they would
In all these tables and appendixes, IBRD figures    make available about $5 billion in highly
exclude disbursements for loans to the IFc and      concessional quick-disbursing cofinancing and
"B" loans. IDA figures include Special Facility for    coordinated financing during calendar years
Sub-Saharan Africa and Interim Trust Fund           1997-99. These resources would be used in
TABLE 4-4. IBRD AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS FOR FOREIGN EXPENDITURES,
BY SOURCE OF SUPPLY
(amounts in millions of us dollars)
IBRD                                    IDA
Countries    Countries                   Countries    Countries
not eligible  eligible                   not eligible   eligible
to borrow    to borrow    Total         to borrow     to borrow    Total
Period            Amount  %   Amount  %   amount           Amount  %   Amount  %   amount
Cumulative to
June 30, 1992  75,997   91   7,880    9  83,877         24,202   85  4,393    15  28,595
Fiscal 1993       5,488    79   1,489   21    6,976         2,141   75    696   25   2,837
Fiscal 1994       4,548   83      909   17    5,457         2,490   70  1,062   30   3,553
Fiscal 1995       4,959   84    938   16    5,896           2,211   69    986   31    3,197
Fiscal 1996       5,371    79   1,434   21    6,806         1,811   68    842   32   2,652
Fiscal 1997       3,146   87    456   13    3,602           1,455   81    343    19   1,798
Cumulative to
June 30, 1997  99,507   88  13,106   12 112,613         34,310   80  8,322   20  42,632
NOTE: This table corresponds to Table 2-4 in the 1996 Annual Report. Countries eligible to borrow from IBRD and IDA are
listed in Appendix 5. Amounts exclude disbursements for debt reduction, net advance disbursements, and disbursements
under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
SECTION FOUR  WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION   121



TABLE 4-5. TOTAL IBRD AND IDA LENDING AND COFINANCING
OPERATIONS, FISCAL YEARS 1994-97
(amounts in billions of us dollars)
1994            1995             1996            1997
Amnount         Amount           Amount          Amount
Lending                            20.8             22.5            21.4             19.1
Cofinancinga                        9.0             8.7              8.2              7.2
Cofinancing/Lending (ratio)              43.3            38.7             38.3            37.8
a. Based on cofinancing plans presented at the time of Board approval. Includes cofinancing with Bank loans, IDA credits
and Bank guarantees and projects financed by Bank-managed trust funds.
conjunction with World Bank and International    composition of Bank lending, including delays in
Monetary Fund programs in support of eco-            some large infrastructure projects.
nomic reforms in Africa countries.                     * Cofinancing continued to play a critical
Trends in colfinancing. Despite a decline in      role in Bosnia and Herzegovina's reconstruction
Bank lending, the proportion of cofinancing to       efforts, with nine projects with estimated cofin-
Bank lending remained stable at 38 percent (see    ancing amounting to $381 million in fiscal
table 4-5). The absolute level of cofinancing an-    1997.
ticipated in support of Bank operations in fiscal      * Private cofinancing (through parallel lend-
1997, however, dropped from $8.2 billion in fis-   ing and guarantees) rose from $724 million in
cal 1996 to $7.2 billion.7 Most cofinancing con-    fiscal 1996 to $1,143 million in fiscal 1997.
tinued to be provided by official sources (78        This included projects in both Africa and MENA,
percent), of which the largest amounts were         two regions in which private cofinancing has
provided by the Inter-American Development          traditionally been limited. Most private
Bank ($1.9 billion), the institutions of the        cofinancing continues to be provided in parallel
European Union ($1 billion), and Japan ($582        with Bank lending. However, the use of Bank
million). The major use of cofinancing contin-       guarantees to support private financing in-
ued to be for specific investment projects (59       creased almost threefold, from $125 million in
percent), particularly in the infrastructure sec-   fiscal 1996 to $372 million in fiscal 1997.8
tor. Highlights for the year include:                  Cofinancing management. The Bank finalized
* Cofinancing helped to moderate swings in        comprehensive framework agreements with
Bank lending in both Africa and the Middle           Spain and Switzerland, entered into a letter
East and North Africa (MENA). Figure 4-3 and         of understanding with Caisse Franqaise de
table 4-6 show cofinancing by region. While          Developpement, and introduced an accelerated
Bank lending fell in these regions, the ratio of
cofinancing to Bank lending rose significantly,
from 42 percent to 82 percent in Africa-largely    7. Cofinancing figures represent planned cofinancing at
the time of approval of each operation by the Bank's
because of the sPA-and from 46 percent to            Executive Board. The amounts of official cofinancing, in
138 percent in MENA-where it exceeded Bank          most cases, are firm commitments by this stage; export
lending.                                            credits and private cofinancing, however, are generally
only estimates at this stage and are firmed up during
Cofinancing fell more steeply than Bank lend-    project implementation.
ing in South Asia, with the ratio of cofinancing     8. Partial credit guarantees are recorded in net present
to Bank lending dropping from 69 percent to 5        value terms in cofinancing statistics. The total level of Bank
percent. This was largely due to changes in the      guarantees, in absolute terms, was $420 million in fiscal
1997.
122 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



FIGURE 4-3 Cofinancing by Region, Fiscal Years 1996-97
(US$ millions)
2500
--                                         9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~97
2000                                                                         996
1500
1000
500
0
LAC          ECA          Africa        EAP          SAS          MENA
cofinancing procedure with the Overseas Eco-   and Herzegovina), and the Middle East and
nomic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan.        North Africa. The Bank also established a forum
Bankwide cofinancing consultations were held    through which senior management of the major
with seventeen donors, including first formal  multilateral institutions now consult regularly
cofinancing consultations with Belgium and     on matters of shared concern.
Denmark, and have been deepened to include       During the fiscal year the Bank also sought to
more policy content. The Bank also kept donors    deepen its dialogue with export credit agencies
informed about its cofinancing needs through   (ECAS) to promote private sector investment
its biannual "Cofinancing Opportunities with   more effectively in developing countries. This
the World Bank."9                              has included regular consultations with ECAs, ex-
In addition, the Bank deepened its dialogue  changing information with them on cofinancing
with other multilateral institutions. In particu-  opportunities, promoting joint participation in
lar, the Bank strengthened its relationship with    seminars, and increasing contacts with the
the European Union with the official opening of   Berne Union.
its office in Brussels on July 1, 1996, and by
establishing a closer regional dialogue on Africa,
Europe and Central Asia (particularly Bosnia   9. "Cofinancing Opportunities with the World Bank" can be
obtained through the Resource Mobilization and
Cofinancing Vice Presidency (RMC).
SECTION FOUR WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION  123



TABLE 4-6. WORLD BANK COFINANCING OPERATIONS, BY REGION,
FISCAL YEARS 1996-97
(amounts in millions of us dollars)
Source of cofinancing
Private
(of which
Projects                    Export        Total        IBRD     World Bank    Total
cofinanced     Official'      credit      private    guarantees)  contribution   project
Region and year    No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount No. Amount   IBRD   IDA   costs
Africa
1996              34  1,155    33  1,146    -      -        2     9    -      -       -   1,618  4,828
1997              26  1,425    25  1,161    -      -       2   265    -       -       -    756  2,727
East Asia and Pacific
1996               9    869      7   664    -      -        2   205   (1)  (50)   1,109   207  3,805
1997              15  1,011    12   286       3   320       2  405    -       -    2,246    174  8,433
South Asia
1996              12  2,032    11  1,271      3   433      3   328   (1)  (75)    900   710  6,669
1997               5     93      5    93    -       -      -     -     -      -       -    285    544
Europe and
Central Asia
1996              41  1,342    41  1,340    -      -        1     2    -      -    1,544    153  4,020
1997              32  1,047    30   719    -       -       4   328   (2)  (320)   1,011    380  2,870
Latin America and
the Caribbean
1996              25  2,056    24  1,876    -      -        2   180    -      -    1,266   262  4,914
1997              26  2,384    26  2,384    -      -      -      -     -      -    2,796     12  9,866
Middle East and
North Africa
1996               9    741      9   741    -       -      -     -     -      -      364    196  1,782
1997              15  1,261    15   985       1   130       1   146   (1)  (52)    536    135  4,801
Total
1996             130  8,195   125  7,039      3   433      10   724   (2)  (125)  5,183  3,146 26,019
1997             119  7,221   113  5,628      4   450       9 1,143   (3)  (372)  6,590  1,742 29,241
- Zero.
NOTE: The number of operations shown under different sources add up to a figure exceeding the total number of cofinanced
projects because a number of projects were cofinanced from more than one source. Cofinancing data are reported by the fiscal
year in which the project is presented to the Bank's Executive Board. Details may not add to totals because of rounding
a. These figures include cofinancing with untied loans from the Export-Import Bank of Japan.
Trends in trust funds. Trust fund activities con-      and program  development. Highlights of fiscal
tinue to grow, with disbursements increasing              1997 include:
from  $1.2 billion in fiscal 1996 to $1.3 billion           * The largest external contributors to trust
in fiscal 1997 (see figure 4-4). Donors use trust        funds were Japan ($210 million), the Nether-
funds to channel funds to priority development           lands ($207 million), Denmark ($72 million),
activities, either through programs managed by           Norway ($66 million), and Sweden ($60 mil-
the Bank-sometimes in concert with other do-             lion). The Bank contributed $653 million to trust
nors or organizations-or through freestanding            funds through transfers from IBRD income.
trust funds (see table 4-7). Aside from those as-           * Disbursements under the Global Environ-
sociated with cofinancing, trust funds primarily         ment Facility and Montreal Protocol trust funds,
finance debt relief, technical assistance (includ-       including transfers to UNDP and UNEP, climbed
ing training, project preparation, research, and          significantly from  $139 million in fiscal 1996 to
studies), and Bank activities related to lending         $227 million.
124   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



FIGURE 4-4                                            * Contributions under the Japanese-funded
Trust Fund Contributions and                        Policy and Human Resources Development
Disbursements, Fiscal Years 1994-97                 Fund (PHRD)-which supports a variety of tech-
(US$ billions)                                      nical assistance activities (see box 4-2)-declined
from $222 million in fiscal 1996 to $175 mil-
2.0                                                lion in fiscal 1997. This decline is due to both
Contributions        lower real contributions and exchange rate ad-
justments, as Japan's contribution is provided in
yen.
1.5                                                   * Use of the Consultant Trust Fund (CTF) pro-
gram rose from $79 million in allocations dur-
Disbursements         ing fiscal 1996 to $96 million in fiscal 1997.
The Bank established an important new
1.0                                                debt relief fund, the HIPC Trust Fund (see box in
Overview section).
Trust fund management. In fiscal 1997, trust
fund policies and procedures were updated, and
0.5                                                the comprehensive Trust Fund Handbook was
05   I1994      1995      1996       1997         issued for use by Bank task managers.
TABLE 4-7. TRUST FUND DISBURSEMENTS
(amounts in millions of us dollars)
FY96        FY97
Multidonor special programs
Global Environment Fund (GEF) Montreal Protocol (MP)                       138.8       226.9
Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)           85.3        51.5
Holst Fund for West Bank and Gaza                                           68.9        50.6
Onchocerciasis Control                                                      32.5        10.4
Africa Capacity Building                                                     11.8       10.9
Other trust fund programs
Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Funda                        168.7       164.6
Consultant Trust Fund (crF) Programb                                        58.1        69.0
Institutional Development Fund (IDF)                                        17.2        18.4
Other trust fundsc                                                            611.0      662.0
Total                                                                       1,192.3    1,264.3
a. These figures exclude the portion of PHRD that is allocated to Japanese Consultant Trust Funds.
b. These figures include Japanese Consultant Trust Funds.
c. This category includes smaller programs as well as single-purpose trust funds that finance debt reduction, cofinancing with
Bank-financed operations, technical assistance, and other advisory senrices.
SECTiON FOUR  WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRArION   125



BOX 4- 2. THE POLICY AND HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT (PHRD) FUND
The PHRD Fund, a collaborative effort between the  Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project and an
government of Japan and the Bank, extends untied  effective means of supporting capacity building.
grants to meet the technical assistance needs of devel-  * In India, a PHRD grant provided the means to fo-
oping countries: it funds project preparation activi-  cus special attention on the health needs of the poor,
ties, including pre-feasibility and feasibility studies,  who are particularly prone to certain diseases. The
sector studies in support of adjustment lending, envi-   effort supported the design of several health projects
ronmental assessments, training, and study tours.  to reduce the incidence of leprosy, blindness, malaria,
The PHRD Fund was established in 1990 as a succes-    and tuberculosis.
sor to the Japanese Grant Facility, which was estab-  The PHRD Fund also supports EDI training activi-
lished in 1987.                                   ties and reconstruction efforts in postconflict regions,
PHRD funding aims to strengthen the quality of  as well as Japanese expertise through the Consultant
project design, and between 1991 and 1997 some    Trust Fund. PHRD responded to the needs of Bosnia
500 PHRD grants have resulted in projects. For these  and Herzegovina with support to the Emergency Re-
completed grants, each dollar of PHRD funding has  covery Program. PHRD also finances several special
mobilized $261 in follow-up investments, thus help-  programs; among those carried out in fiscal 1997
ing develop a pipeline of quality projects for Bank  was a seminar on industrial and financial sector
and iDA funding. During fiscal 1997, the mHRD fund  strategies for eastern and southern Africa countries
provided 254 grants totaling $138.6 million and in    that drew heavily on the experience of East Asian
fiscal 1996, 260 grants totaling $162.2 million for  countries.
project preparation activities. Examples of PHRD    The PHRD also funds the Joint Japan/World Bank
grants that have contributed to successful project  Graduate Scholarship Program, managed by EDI,
preparation include:                              which funds graduate studies for mid-career officials
* In Mongolia, PHRD-funded consultants prepared    from Bank member countries. In fiscal 1997 the pro-
a feasibility study on the priorities for rehabilitation  gram supported 360 students who studied in 111
services, an important input in the preparation of the    universities in nineteen member countries.
With the exception of the CTF program, most    focused on engineering-assistance in designing
trust funds are untied. To increase the effective-    bridges, dams, highways, and telecommunica-
ness of the CTF program, the Bank reached            tions systems-which involves working with
agreement with most major donors to untie           identifiable products that are based on well-
their CTFs by at least 25 percent to fund consult-   established technology that can be transplanted
ants from developing countries and from other        or modified relatively easily. In recent years,
donor countries that have taken similar mea-         however, TA increasingly has been directed at ca-
sures to untie their contributions.                  pacity building, which entails a more complex
process of creating and disseminating knowl-
Technical assistance                                 edge for development purposes at all levels of
Technical assistance (TA) came under consid-      society. Capacity is induced and enhanced as
erable scrutiny in fiscal 1997 because of legiti-    much as it is transferred and built. TA for capac-
mate concerns that its performance has been         ity building involves assisting, supporting, and
less than satisfactory. This performance record is   facilitating rather than supplanting and pre-
common to most donors of technical assistance        scribing. It is largely culture bound and process
and is the subject of an ongoing review by the       oriented, and experience in one situation might
Bank.                                               be entirely irrelevant in another. Experimenta-
Bank-supported TA in the early years, and         tion often governs action. TA for capacity build-
through the 1970s and much of the 1980s,             ing is thus costly, time consuming, and often
126  THEWORLDBANKANNUALREPORT 1997



risky. In fiscal 1997 the Bank began to examine    fected by a Bank-supported project or projects
its tools for designing and delivering this type of   can ask the panel to investigate complaints that
TA to identify methods of reducing risks and in-    the Bank has failed to abide by its policies and
creasing the chances of success.               procedures. The executive directors decide, on
The Bank offers its clients a number of instru-   the recommendation of the panel, whether an
ments to promote capacity building. Most are  inspection will take place.
financed through loans for freestanding projects  The Inspection Panel continues to receive nu-
or for components of broader projects. One in-    merous queries concerning potential requests
creasingly important instrument is the Institu-  for inspection. It has received ten formal re-
tional Development Fund (IDF) established in   quests for inspection to date, eight of which
fiscal 1993 as a $25 million annual grant instru-    were found to be admissible: five were acted
ment. The IDF provides grants for capacity-    upon in fiscal 1997 (see box 4-3). In fiscal 1997
building activities not directly linked to Bank  the executive directors asked the panel to re-
operations. Between its inception and the end of   view the extent of progress of a November
calendar year 1996, the IDF made 345 grants to  1995 plan of action, which was undertaken by
108 countries. While the ceiling for each grant  Bank management in response to a (fiscal 1996)
is $500,000, grants extended to date have aver-    request for inspection of the Rondonia Natural
aged less than $300,000 each. Among its many   Resources Management Project in Brazil. The
beneficiaries, the IDF has funded capacity build-    panel's report noted mixed progress but con-
ing for poverty monitoring and social policy in  cluded that local people affected by the project
Angola; for developing the Quipus craft pro-   considered its continuation preferable to ending
gram in Bolivia; for strengthening project man-    Bank involvement. The board accepted the
agement and monitoring capacity related to the    panel's recommendation to continue with the
protection of children in Vietnam; for establish-    project.
ing institutional capacity to secure private in-  The resolution that established the Inspection
vestors and operators in Tunisia; for external as-    Panel required a review of its functions by the
sistance management capacity in Kazakhstan;    Bank's Executive Board after two years of op-
and for capacity building in, and modernizing  eration. The review was completed in fiscal
of, Sri Lanka's Central Bank Library.          1997. The board agreed on the usefulness of the
The Bank and the United Nations Development   inspection mechanism and approved several
Programme (UNDP). The Bank maintains close    technical clarifications to the resolution, which
working relationships with UNDP. One of the key   have led to improvements in processing requests.
aspects of this relationship in fiscal 1997 was
the conclusion of a new agreement on aid coor-    Public Information Center
dination. At the same time, the Bank's role of   The Pic continued to improve the quality and
executing agency for UNDP projects has substan-    quantity of information it makes available to cli-
tially diminished with the introduction in 1992    ents, with the number of documents carried by
of UNDP'S system of devolving execution to the  the Pic increasing by 1,160 between July 1, 1996
countries themselves.                          and June 30, 1997, to reach a total of 4,024
by the end of the fiscal year. In fiscal 1997 the
Inspection Panel                               highest demand for information from the Pic
An independent inspection panel established    came from the business community, followed by
by the executive directors in September 1993   academics and representatives of public agencies.
helps to ensure that the Bank's operations ad-   Since its inception, the largest proportion
here to the institution's operational policies and    of Pic usage has come from members of the
procedures regarding the design, preparation, or   business community who are interested in
implementation of a project. Any group of indi-   project-specific information. In addition, Pic
viduals who may be directly or adversely af-   clients include public agencies, NGOS, academia,
and the general public interested in obtaining
SECTION FOUR WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION  127



BOX 4-3. REQUESTS FOR INSPECTION
Jamuna Bridge Project in Bangladesh. Request-    mills claimed that their interests had been harmed
ers representing people living on chars (islands in the    through design flaws and delays in implementation
Jamuna River) claimed that their livelihood and   of the IDA-supported reform program-which was
property rights have been or may be harmed because   intended to benefit the private sector The panel did
IDA policies, especially on resettlement, compensation,    not recommend a formal investigation because it
and participation, were not observed in the design  considered that this would not resolve the
and implementation of the project. After the Inspec-  program's design and implementation problems.
tion Panel received the request, compensation policies   IDA's executive directors accepted the recommenda-
and an implementation plan acceptable to the re-  tion.
questers were adopted. IDA's Board of Executive     Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project
Directors accepted the panel's recommendation that    in BraziL The requesters claim that their standards
there was no need for further investigation at that  of living, health, and economic well-being have not
time but asked management to submit a progress    been maintained or improved because of design
report on execution of measures to compensate the  failures and faulty execution of this project. The
char dwellers early in fiscal 1998. The panel will be    project was designed to mitigate adverse effects re-
invited to give its comments on this report.      sultingffrom the construction of the Itaparica hydro-
Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project in Argentina     electric dam. The panel recommended that the
and Paraguay. The requesters representing people  Executive Board authorize an investigation. The
living in the project area claimed that their stan-  board will consider the recommendation early in
dards of living, health, and economic well-being have   fiscal 1998.
been, and may be potentially, harmed as a result of  National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPc)
Bank omissions and failure to observe policies in re-    Power Generation Project in India. The request-
lation to execution of the project and filling the  ers in the project area, located in the Singrauli re-
Yacyreta Reservoir The panel recommended an in-   gion, claim that they have been and may be ad-
vestigation. The Bank's executive directors asked the    versely affected as a result of execution of the
panel to review the project's environmental and re-  project, which they allege violates aspects of various
settlement problems and to provide an assessment  Bank policies, including those on environmental as-
of the adequacy of a remedial action plan agreed on  sessment, indigenous peoples, and resettlement. The
between the Bank and the two countries.           panel will deliver its recommendation to the Execu-
Jute Sector Adjustment Program in              tive Board early in fiscal 1998.
Bangladesh. The requesters from private sector jute
economic information on countries and sectors       reorganized and improved and its search capa-
and numerous documents on a variety of topics.    bility upgraded to be more user friendly and re-
Because accessing any one piece of Bank infor-      sponsive. Links were established with other
mation can be a formidable challenge, the Pic       Bank Group Web sites, including those of the
monitors a telephone hotline to respond to          Operations Evaluation Department, the Inspec-
questions on many different aspects of the          tion Panel, and the Global Environment Facility.
Bank's work and to help guide clients through
the Bank's organizational structure. The PIC pro-    Administrative budget
gram has enabled a break in what was per-           and corporate planning
ceived as an impenetrable barrier to informa-          The Bank's total administrative budget for
tion about the Bank and has helped to create        fiscal 1997, as approved by the executive direc-
better understanding of the Bank's mission.         tors in fiscal 1996, was $1,374.7 million (see
In fiscal 1997 the PIC continued to improve       appendix 6), a drop of 3.6 percent in real terms
and expand its operations. To serve the bulk of     from the fiscal 1996 budget.
its clients better-those who access the PIC
through*the Internet'-the Pic's Web site was       10. Hits to the PIC's Internet program totaled about
through tne Internet -tne PIC'S WeD s1te was        2 million in fiscal 1997.
128   THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



The net administrative budget for fiscal 1997     of the Economic Development Institute); and
which takes into account reimbursements and          putting in place the supporting infrastructure to
fee revenues that offset the costs of programs       sustain institutional change.
not financed from the regular budget, was set at       Management noted that for the fiscal 1998-
$1,177 million. This implied a reduction in real     2000 period, it would present a further, more
terms of 4.6 percent over fiscal 1996 and a 10.7    comprehensive review of institutional priorities
percent reduction over fiscal 1995. Fiscal 1997      as well as a proposed plan for implementing a
was the third consecutive year of decline in the     program of renewal-including costs and ben-
Bank's net administrative expenditures in real       efits. This review was subsequently encapsu-
terms. Figure 4-5 shows IBRD and IDA income          lated in the Strategic Compact, which was
and expenditure at a glance.                         unanimously approved by the Executive Board
The fiscal 1997 budget also reflected the         on March 31, 1997.
initial phase of the Bank's effort to undertake        In June 1997, the executive directors
institutional renewal; it proposed specific mea-     approved a total administrative budget for
sures to support that process, including taking      fiscal 1998 totaling $1,423.9 million to imple-
immediate steps to raise the quality of the          ment the program envisaged by the Strategic
Bank's services for its clients; strengthening the   Compact. (The net administrative budget, tak-
quality of country assistance strategies and the     ing into account off-setting reimbursements and
portfolio; enhancing executive development and    fee revenues, is $1,219 million.)
staff training programs; expanding partnerships        Corporate Planning and Resource Management.
and support for building client capacities           In fiscal 1997 the priority of the various units
(through, for example, a substantial expansion      that comprise Corporate Planning and Resource
FIGURE 4-5 IBRD/IDA Income and Expenditure at a Glance, Fiscal Year 1997
Where the money comes from
Commitment fees- IBRD, 1%
Other income, 2%
:                    - Income from investments  IDA, 5%
Income from development cmedits, 6%
ncome from investments - IBRD, 8%
Income from loans - IBRD, 77%
Where the money goes
Other expenses, 2%
Management fee  IDA, 5%
Changes from operations  IDA, 6%
(operating surplus)
Administrative expenses -IBRD, 7%
Net income - IBRD; 14%
Borrowing expenses - IBRD. 66%
Note: For details see IBRD Financial Statements: Statement of Income and IDA Special Purpose Financial Statements: Statement of
Changes in Accumulated Surplus, June 30, 1997.
SECTION FOUR  WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION   129



Management was to support the Bank's emerg-    public expenditure analysis, social safety nets,
ing renewal program. In many ways the key to    and lessons of adjustment. Another LLC partner-
the Bank's relevance and effectiveness in the fu-    ship, with the IMF Institute, brought staff from
ture is the efficient interplay among its human  the International Monetary Fund to participate
resources, financial resources, and technology-    in Bank courses and vice versa.
the key components of corporate planning and      Health Services Department. HSD provided a
resource management.                            variety of clinical and occupational health ser-
Human resources. The Bank's change effort in    vices, including an on-site clinic to assist staff
fiscal 1997 was supported by a new managerial    with episodic, acute illnesses; a comprehensive
selection process built on openness and trans-  breast care program; and a travelers' health ad-
parency; launching an improved performance-     visory service that gives advice on immuniza-
management process that emphasizes agreed re-   tion, illnesses and diseases common to countries
sults; and supporting the launch of the four sec-    of destination, as well as food and water precau-
tor networks. A multisource feedback program    tions. Associated dimensions of HSD'S work pro-
was also piloted this year.                     gram included occupational health research
The Bank also implemented a program to rec-   focusing on health concerns of staff and on
ognize staff achievement, the Awards for Excel-   travel-related illnesses, which serves as a guide
lence program, which recognizes teams and in-    to targeted interventions to keep staff healthy
dividuals who demonstrate outstanding service   and productive, and a communications program
to clients and who deliver results in an innova-    to strengthen staff health awareness.
tive, collaborative, and responsive manner.       Information and Technology Services (ITS). Pro-
Learning and Leadership Center To help        viding the communications and technological
achieve a higher level of excellence and better  support for devolving responsibility to resident
results, the LLC provided a notable increase in  missions and providing infrastructure for the
staff training and education in fiscal 1997.    Bank's knowledge-management initiative were
* More than 2,000 staff attended over 150     primary foci for ITS in fiscal 1997. Deployment
courses or technical workshops, and twenty-     of the Bank's global communications network
seven "Sector Weeks" brought together staff and    was carried out in collaboration with United
outside experts from specific disciplines.      Nations agencies, and the Enterprise Network
* Fifty managers completed the Executive      was extended to about one-third of the Bank's
Development Program (EDP) at ten leading busi-   resident missions during the fiscal year.
ness schools or academic institutions; another    Cost-effective measures to streamline proce-
180 attended an in-house EDP organized with a   dures, share information, and promote team-
consortium of leading training institutions.    work across the Bank were enhanced through
* Training opportunities targeted to reach    use of collaborative tools such as Lotus NotesTM.
resident mission staff included seven programs,  Already in use by a large portion of headquar-
held in regional "hubs" such as Budapest,       ters staff, by the end of fiscal 1998 all staff at
Islamabad and Jakarta, which were attended      headquarters and resident missions will have
by about 200 local staff                        access to these tools.
* Exchange and secondment programs were         A prototype knowledge management system
initiated with other major organizations.       (KMS) was developed to serve as a single reposi-
* The Presidential Fellows program brought    tory of knowledge and information about devel-
eminent scholars to the Bank to discuss their   opment. The KMS is accessible in multiple ways
views on critical issues such as social justice,  and will be scaled up and linked with expanded
poverty, and inequality.                        electronic document repositories.
The LLC and EDI offered twelve joint programs
where Bank staff and participants from client
countries studied important subjects such as
130  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



A high-level systems architecture study car-   Staffing. At the end of fiscal 1997, regular and
ried out in fiscal 1997 resulted in initiation of  fixed-term staff-excluding staff on special leave
major reforms in supporting systems and data.  and leave without pay-numbered 5,443, down
General Services Department. GSD continued  from 5,681 as of June 30, 1996. The World Bank
its efforts to support the Bank's drive for in-  Group recruited 207 staff, of whom 30 percent
creased efficiency and cost savings. Highlights of   were from developing countries and 40 percent
the year included the occupancy of Phase 2 of  were women. Recruitment is expected to remain
the Bank's Main Complex, which is accommo-     at a higher level in the next fiscal year to provide
dating about 1,300 staff; achievement of $9.4  new skills for the new areas of emphasis under the
million in travel savings through the lowest-  Strategic Compact.
cost-fare program, negotiated hotel rates, and
free airline tickets; and utilization of new tech-
nology, including a pilot robotic "mailmobiles"
program.
"Greening" efforts continued and will be em-
bedded in GSD's annual work program from the
next fiscal year. This year's efforts included us-
ing breakaway partitions in headquarters office
space to decrease significantly the consumption
and waste of internal building materials; switch-
ing to environmentally conscious, energy-efficient
materials; and increasing the use of recycled
products.
As more staff were being devolved to the
field, GSD undertook twenty field office projects,
three in Bank-owned space and the remaining
seventeen in leased premises; an additional twelve
projects were commissioned and surveyed.
Headquarters construction. The second phase
of construction of the new Main Complex
buildings was completed during the year, and
office operations started at the 1818 H Street
site on December 6, 1996. The cost of construc-
tion was within the budget approved by the
Executive Board in fiscal 1995.
Built to the latest health and safety standards
and with high energy efficiency, the new build-
ing creates additional office space, permits mod-
ern communications and other technology, and
has enabled the Bank to reduce its reliance on
rented office space.
SECTION FOUR WORLD BANK OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION  131



:   a    :   0   0   0  1  0  . 0 S 0 | X W00: ; X: \ \~~~ A r
::        i                                  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
F    M         E   E   v   >S
S S                                               rW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
7:   _  =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
i _  , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~F
:: :::~~~~~~>~



SECTION FIVE                                          WORLD BANK FINANCES
IBRD financial highlights       Poor Countries (HiPc) Debt      reflect the offered currency of
Initiative Trust Fund in sup-   their choice. Under this offer,
In the fiscal year ending     port of the HIPC debt initiative.   which extends from Septem-
June 30, 1997, the IBRD                                         ber 1996 to June 1998, bor-
achieved solid financial perfor-   Financial policies           rowers have three options:
mance, highlights of which        Increasing client orientation   * they may retain the terms
are:                            by offening currency choice for  of their existing currency-pool
* net income of $1,285        new and existing IBRD loans. On    loans
million;                        June 25, 1996, the executive      * they may convert un-
* loan disbursements to       directors approved two initia-    disbursed loan amounts to
member countries of $13,998    tives to provide borrowers       single-currency loan terms;
million;                        flexibility to select IBRD loan  and
* medium- and long-term      terms that are consistent with     * they may convert dis-
borrowing the equivalent of    their debt-management strat-    bursed loan balances and
$15.1 billion in eighteen cur-    egy and suited to their debt-  undisbursed loan amounts
rencies;                        servicing capacity. First, they  (to the extent not converted
* average medium- to long-    removed the lending volume      to single-currency loan terms)
term borrowing costs, after    limitation on new single-        to one of four new single-
swaps, of 5.01 percent;         currency loan commitments.      currency pools.
* financial returns on the    During the fiscal year ending     At June 30, 1997, there
investment portfolio of 5       June 30, 1997, there was        were $5,764 million of undis-
percent;                        strong borrower demand for      bursed balances that borrow-
* a healthy reserves-to-loan    the single-currency loan prod-    ers had requested conversion
ratio of 14 percent.            uct. Of total new commit-       into single-currency loan
The Board of Governors        ments of $14.5 billion, bor-    terms. In addition, the Bank
agreed at the October 1996      rowers selected LIBOR-based     had accepted requests to con-
Annual Meeting to allocate      single-currency loan terms for    vert $9.9 billion of loan bal-
net income earned during fis-    $10.6 billion, fixed-rate single-   ances to single-currency pool
cal 1996 as follows:            currency loan terms for $2.3   terms on July 1, 1997.
* $250 million to the gen-   billion, and currency-pool loan    Portfolio concentration man-
eral reserves to maintain the   terms for $1.6 billion. Single-    agement. On January 28, 1997,
reserves-to-loan ratio and to   currency loans were commit-    the executive directors ap-
prefund partial waivers of in-    ted in five currencies: United  proved a new policy on IBRD
terest charges;                 States dollars ($11.9 billion),  portfolio concentration man-
* $300 million equivalent in    deutsche mark ($668 million),   agement. Under this policy,
SDRS as of June 30, 1996, as an    French francs ($226 million),    IBRD exposure to large borrow-
immediate grant to IDA;         Japanese yen ($53.1 million),    ers is subject to a dollar limit.
* the remainder, $637 mil-    and Spanish pesetas             This limit will be established
lion, to surplus.               ($42.5 million).                at the time of the annual
The Board of Governors          Second, the executive direc-   allocation of IBRD net income
also authorized the following   tors approved a policy to offer    and will be the lower of:
transfers from the IBRD sur-    currency choice for all IBRD    (i) 10 percent of the Statutory
plus:                           currency-pool loans for which    Lending Limit,' and (ii) IBRD'S
* $300 million equivalent in   the invitation to negotiate was    ability to bear the risk of port-
SDRS as of June 30, 1996, as an    issued by September 1, 1996.
immediate grant to IDA;         The purpose of this offer is to    1. The Statutory Lending Limit is
* $500 million by way of a   provide borrowers flexibility    defined as subscribed capital plus
reserves plus the portion of the
grant to the Heavily Indebted    to amend the terms of their    surplus account available to meet
existing currency-pool loans to   IBRD'S obligations toward its creditors.
SECTnON FIvE WORLD BANK FINANCES  133



folio concentration. Thus, the new approach en-    outstanding plus the present value of callable
sures that all borrowers have equal access to    guarantees. At the end of the year there were
IBRD's resources and that IBRD's exposure to    seven countries with loans in nonaccrual status,
portfolio-concentration risk cannot exceed its   and the accumulated provision for loan losses
risk-bearing capacity.                           amounted to $3,210 million.
Previously, IBRD exposure to large borrowers
was managed so that the amount outstanding to    Loans
any one borrower did not significantly exceed      Disbursements. The IBRD'S gross disbursements
10 percent of the total IBRD loan portfolio. The  to countries during fiscal 1997 were $13,998
new policy has several advantages over the pre-    million, up $626 million from fiscal 1996's total
vious policy. First, it de-links exposure to indi-  of $13,372 million. Net disbursements, exclud-
vidual borrowers from IBRD'S total loan portfo-  ing prepayments, to current borrowers were
lio, thereby allowing the lending levels for large    $4,301 million, an increase of $1,419 million
borrowers to be set independently from devel-    over the previous year's total of $2,882 million.
opments in other countries. Second, it allows      Lending rates. For loans made under, or con-
IBRD to manage its exposure to large borrowers   verted to, the IBRD'S variable lending rate (VLR)
proactively on the basis of its risk-bearing ca-  system, established in 1989, the interest rate
pacity. Third, it clarifies what is considered to  was 6.94 percent for the first semester and 6.70
be an equitable share of IBRD'S total resources.  percent for the second semester for fiscal 1997.
Liquidity policy. On April 18, 1997, the IBRD's    By comparison, the interest rates for older vari-
executive directors approved a new approach to    able rate loans (established in 1982) that have
maintaining and managing its liquid assets. Be-  not been converted to the current system were
ginning with fiscal 1998, the IBRD'S liquid asset  6.90 percent and 6.65 percent for the first and
holdings will not be allowed to fall below a     second semesters, respectively.
specified minimum; that minimum is equivalent      The single-currency lending rates for the fis-
to the highest six months of debt service plus  cal year ranged from 5.79 percent to 6.22 per-
one-half of net loan disbursements as projected  cent in United States dollars, from 3.35 percent
for the year, which amounts to $17.3 billion for    to 3.72 percent in deutsche mark, from 3.53
fiscal 1998. Holding at least this level of liquid-    percent to 4.44 percent in French francs, and
ity at all times provides additional assurance   from 0.72 percent to 1.02 percent in Japanese
that the IBRD will have the resources necessary  yen (the only currencies outstanding on loans).
to meet its financial obligations, even in the un-    These rates are based on the six-month LIBOR
likely event that it is prevented from accessing  (PIBOR for French francs) plus a total spread (in-
capital-market funding for a significant period.  cludes contractual lending spread plus or minus
Liquid assets over and above the specified mini-   the Bank's weighted-average cost margin rela-
mum will be held to provide flexibility in tim-  tive to LIBOR/PIBOR). Single-currency loan fixed
ing the IBRD's borrowing transactions and to    rates for the fiscal year (applicable to disbursed
meet working capital needs. Previously the IBRD  amounts during an interest period) ranged from
had maintained a target for fiscal year-end liq-  6.67 percent to 7.75 percent in United States
uid holdings of at least 45 percent of its pro-  dollars, from 5.15 percent to 6.26 percent in
jected net cash requirements for the succeeding    deutsche mark, and from 5.01 percent to 6.86
three years.                                     percent in French francs.
Accumulated provision for loan losses. The level  Interest waivers. During fiscal 1997 the IBRD
of the accumulated provision for loan losses is  continued to waive twenty-five basis points of
based on an assessment of the collectibility of  the semester interest rate of loans to all borrow-
loans in nonaccrual status, plus an evaluation   ers that had made all loan-service payments
of the collectibility risk in the rest of the portfo-   within thirty days of their due date. At June
lio. For fiscal year 1997, the accumulated provi-    30,1997, approximately 95 percent of the IBRD'S
sion for loan losses was maintained at a level  total volume of outstanding loans was eligible
equal to 3 percent of total loans disbursed and  for the interest-spread waiver. This waiver was
134  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



in addition to the continuation during the year    The IBRD'S liquid assets are invested exclu-
of a waiver of part of the IBRD'S commitment    sively in fixed-income markets, and most are ac-
fee on undisbursed balances that resulted in a  tively traded. Portfolio-management activities
reduction of that fee from seventy-five to       are supported by risk-management and moni-
twenty-five basis points. Together, the partial  toring procedures covering both credit risk
waivers on loan charges amounted to $485         and interest rate risk. Trading performance of
million in fiscal 1997.                          actively managed portfolios is measured against
Loans in nonaccrual status. At the end of     benchmark portfolios of three months' duration.
fiscal 1997, six member countries (Bosnia and      At the end of fiscal year 1997 the IBRD'S
Herzegovina, Democratic Republic of the Congo,    liquidity totaled $18,107 million.
Iraq, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic) and    During fiscal 1997 the IBRD'S financial return
one successor republic of the former Socialist  on its portfolio was 5 percent. The financial
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia-the Federal Re-   return on the portfolio in fiscal 1996 was 4.43
public of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)-    percent.
were in nonaccrual status. Of these countries,
all but Bosnia and Herzegovina have payments    Borrowings and liability management
in arrears to the Bank. All overdue payments       The goal of the IBRD'S funding and liability-
from Bosnia and Herzegovina were cleared        management operations is to mobilize the fi-
in June 1996, but the country remains in         nancing needed for development at the lowest
nonaccrual status because of the high level of   achievable cost and on a sustainable basis. In
collectibility risk associated with its outstanding    pursuit of this goal, the IBRD issues debt in a
debt stock. Loans in nonaccrual status at the   wide range of currencies, maturities, and struc-
end of fiscal 1997 amounted to 2.23 percent of    tures, and it does so in a variety of markets, pay-
the total IBRD portfolio.                        ment systems, and legal environments. It also
uses interest rate and currency swaps and other
Liquid asset management                         derivatives as an integral part of this effort to
The liquid asset portfolio serves a number of    minimize costs and to manage risks-both
purposes for the IBRD. It provides flexibility in  when it takes on new debt and in managing the
timing the execution of the borrowing program,    stock of outstanding liabilities. Almost all of the
allowing it to take advantage of attractive mar-    IBRD'S outstanding loans to its developing-coun-
ket conditions and funding opportunities on be-   try borrowers are priced on a cost pass-through
half of its borrowers. It functions as a source of    basis, so the benefits of low-cost funds flow
cash to meet operational requirements in the    through directly to the debt-service payments
normal course of business and is also a reserve  of these countries.
that could be mobilized in case of adverse fi-    In fiscal 1997 the IBRD employed many avail-
nancial conditions affecting the IBRD. Further-  able market instruments to raise $15.1 billion in
more, the availability of liquid assets enhances  medium- and long-term debt, to increase its
the overall level of investor confidence in the  outstanding short-term debt by $3.3 billion, to
IBRD'S creditworthiness.                         prepay or buy back $1.8 billion of its securities,
A new policy specifying the minimum size of    and to transform the currency or interest rate
the liquid portfolio was approved by the execu-    characteristics of another $27.4 billion of its
tive directors in April 1997. It will be imple-  outstanding liabilities.
mented beginning with fiscal year 1998.            As part of its efforts to raise funds in world
As a result of another policy change approved    capital markets as cost-effectively as possible,
by the executive directors in May 1996, based   the IBRD issued debt in eighteen different cur-
on asset-liability management reasons, the IBRD  rencies during the year, including for the first
began funding its liquidity portfolio utilizing  time Korean won, Philippine pesos, Polish zloty,
floating-rate debt on a currency-by-currency
basis in fiscal year 1997.
SECTION FIVE WORLD BANK FINANCES  135



TABLE 5-1. IBRD MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM BORROWINGS,
FISCAL YEAR 1997
(amounts in millions)
Currency      US dollar
Type                         Issue                                  Currency    amount       equivalent
Globals                6.625% Bond due 2006                          US$        1,000.0       1,000.0
Structured             6.70% Callable Notes due 1999                 US$           50.0         50.0
6.62% JPY/AUD Dual Currency Bonds due 1998    X          9,850.0         90.7
7.00% JPY/NZD Dual Currency Bonds due 1997    X          4,925.0         46.3
5.10% JPY/USD Dual Currency Bonds due 1998    X          7,000.0         64.7
Callable Multi-up Loan due 2006               X          1,000.0          9.2
Zero-Coupon Callable Notes due 2011           Lit     272,060.0         178.1
5.00% JPY/USD Dual Currency Bonds due 1999    X        49,175.0         443.0
6.00% Step-up Callable Notes due 1999         US$         119.9         119.9
Zero-Coupon Callable Notes due 2006           Lit      587,450.0        386.8
9.50% Reverse Floater Callable Bond due 2007  Lit     645,159.6         400.1
Reverse Floater Callable Bond due 2007        US$         100.0         100.0
5.60% JPY/GBP Dual Currency Bonds due 2000    A!        14,745.0        119.4
7.45% Callable Bond due 2002                  Lit      199,510.0        117.6
Callable Multi-up Loan due 2007               X          1,000.0          7.9
5.25% Range Structure Bond due 2000           DM          100.0          58.3
Multi-Callable Capped Floater Bond due 2007   Lit      199,300.0        117.7
Capped Floater Notes due 2007                 Lit       54,821.4         32.6
Capped Floater Bond due 2004                  Lit     497,450.0         300.8
Forex-Indexed Bond due 2012                   X          5,000.0         43.3
7.05% Callable Notes due 2004                 Lit     299,340.0         177.0
6.75% Callable Bond due 2002                  $A           99.8          75.0
Conventional           8.25% Bond due 1999 (Reopening of a FY96 Issue)  $A         50.2         39.5
9.00% Bond due 1999 (Reopening of a FY96 Issue)  $NZ       50.0          34.0
13.625% Bond due 1999                         R           199.8          45.7
7.50% Notes due 1999                          $A          148.5         116.9
7.00% Notes due 2000                          $A           99.5          76.9
8.75% Notes due 2005                          Lit       29,730.0         19.6
6.50% Bond due 2002                           Can$         99.5          72.8
5.68% Notes due 1999                          US$        1,000.0       1,000.0
8.00% Notes due 1998                          $NZ          99.6          68.9
6.375% Notes due 2003                         DKr         398.8          68.4
7.20% Bond due 2001                           Ptas       9,898.0         77.9
Zero-Coupon Notes due 2016                    Lit     661,260.0         435.0
Floating Rate Notes due 2001                  Lit       50,015.0         32.8
7.625% Notes due 2003                         Lit     299,390.0         196.6
Zero-Coupon Notes due 2016                    DM          414.4         268.1
14.50% Notes due 1998                         R            99.7          21.6
4.00% Notes due 2004                          DKr         428.2          73.4
Slovak koruny, and South African rand (see table    and liquid assets. In view of the increased
5-1). The use of currency swaps allowed the            demand for single-currency loans from its cli-
IBRD to transform the cash flows from these            ents, and especially for loans denominated in
securities into the funding needed for its loans       United States dollars, the bulk of the IBRD's new
136 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Currency      US dollar
Type                         Issue                                  Currency    amount       equivalent
Conventional           4.625% Notes due 2001                         DM         1,009.0        625.4
6.65% Notes due 1998                          $NZ          99.5          70.5
5.15% Notes due 2000                          US$        1,000.0      1,000.0
15.00% Notes due 2002                         R            98.9          21.1
Zero-Coupon Notes due 2000                    £           274.0         449.1
7.25% Notes due 2002                          $NZ         199.2         141.0
10.25% Notes due 2001                         Dr       20,180.0          81.7
15.00% Notes due 1999                         R           499.7         108.3
Zero-Coupon Bonds due 2007                    Lit     513,300.0         331.0
14.50% Bonds due 2002                         R            99.8          22.3
6.75% Bonds due 2001                          $A           99.9          76.3
6.00% Bonds due 2000                          £           247.6         402.0
6.50% Bonds due 2004                          Lit     796,400.0         479.8
7.50% Notes due 2000                          $NZ          99.4          68.9
6.10% Bonds due 2000                          £           296.5         483.5
Zero-Coupon Bond due 2017                     R           415.8          93.6
14.5% Notes due 2002                          R           149.7          33.5
Zero-Coupon Notes due 2022                    R           258.5          58.5
10.25% Notes due 2002                        V          3,995.2         151.5
4.75% Bond due 2002                           DM          248.3         148.7
10.375% Notes due 1999                        KY(         998.2          35.6
7.58% Notes due 2007                          HK$         996.1         129.1
8.25% Notes due 2000                          $NZ          99.5          69.0
9.80% Notes due 2002                          W        88,666.4          99.3
Step-Down Coupon Notes due 2007               X          4,970.0         39.7
Zero-Coupon Notes due 2012                    R           401.2          89.9
5.375% Bond due 2000                          Ptas      14,943.8        103.3
6.625% Notes due 2001                         US$         298.4         298.4
8.00% Notes due 2007                          $NZ          97.5          67.5
6.95% Notes due 2002                          Lit     299,515.0         174.5
7.00% Bond due 2002                           $NZ         746.6       1,220.6
6.45% Loan due 2002                           US$          30.0          30.0
19.50% Notes due 1999                         Zi           99.6          31.7
14.625% Notes due 2000                        R           199.3          44.6
7.625% Notes due 2002                         $NZ          99.7          68.9
7.00% Notes due 2000                          $NZ          99.4          68.2
Zero-Coupon Notes due 2027                    R            89.0          19.8
7.00% Bond due 1999                           $NZ         124.5         206.4
6.00% Bond due 1999                           US$         250.0         250.0
5.375% Notes due 2002                         Can$         99.1          71.2
6.50% Bonds due 2007                          Lit     991,980.0         588.6
Total                                                             15,139.2
NoTE: Borrowing amounts are based on net proceeds. US. dollar equivalents are expressed at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of launch.
liabilities, on an after-swaps basis, in fiscal 1997      Spurred in part by the changing composition
also took the form of United States dollars (see       and structure of its balance sheet, the IBRD'S
table 5-2).                                            asset liability-management operations have been
growing. During the year, the IBRD entered into
SECTION FIVE  WORLD BANK FINANCES   137



TABLE 5-2. IBRD BORROWINGS, AFTER SWAPS, FISCAL YEAR 1997
(amounts in millions of us dollars equivalent)
Before swaps     Currency       After swaps
Maturity  swaps                Maturity Cost
Item                             Amount   %  (years) (amount)  Amount   %  (years)  (%)
Medium- and long-term
borrowings
U.S. dollars                      3,848.3   25  4.9  8,740.3 12,588.6   83    6.5  5.6
Deutsche mark                     1,100.5    7  8.4    558.6  1,659.1   11    2.9  2.9
Japanese yen                        864.1    6  3.6      27.5    891.5      6    3.0  0.3
Others                            9,326.3   62  6.2       -        -       -      -    -
Totala                           15,139.2  100   5.9  9,326.4 15,139.3  100    5.9  5.0
Short-term borrowings
outstandingb
Central bank facility (U.S. dollars)                            2,200.0   29    0.5  5.1
Discount notes (U.S. dollars)                                   3,015.0   39    0.3  5.7
Other
U.S. dollars                                                  1,985.0   26    0.6  5.6
Deutsche mark                                                   394.0     5    0.8  2.8
Japanese yen                                                     88.0     1    0.5  0.2
Total                                                           7,682.0  100    0.4  5.3
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Excludes the costs of Liability Management Funding and the volume, maturity, and cost of Contingent Funding.
b. As of June 30, 1997.
$1.6 billion in interest rate swaps to hedge the  market to reduce debt costs and better manage
risk on its fixed-rate single-currency loans; it  its liabilities.
completed $5.1 billion in currency swaps asso-
ciated with managing the currency composition    Capital
of the currency pool; and it kept a greater share  The IBRD seeks to avoid exchange risks by
of the liabilities allocated to the currency pool  matching its liabilities in various currencies with
on a floating rate basis to facilitate meeting bor-    assets in those same currencies and by matching
rowers' requests for the conversion of loans to  the currencies of its retained earnings and accu-
single-currency terms beginning July 1, 1997. In    mulated provision for loan losses with those of
its swap operations the IBRD ensures that its    its outstanding loans.
credit risk exposures are tightly controlled. It   The IBRD presents its financial statements in
enters into swaps only with highly rated coun-   United States dollars. Accordingly, changes in
terparts, subject to diversification requirements,    the value of the United States dollar vis-a-vis
and under master agreements that-for swaps       other currencies have an effect on the reported
longer than one year-must provide for mark-      balances for assets and liabilities. For the June
ing to market and collateralization. The IBRD    30, 1997 financial statements, expressed in
also called or prepaid $951 million in debt, and  United States dollar terms, the loan portfolio
it repurchased $851 million in securities in the  was reduced by $6,429 million, the borrowing
portfolio by $4,701 million, and accumulated
138  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



BOX 5-1. THE INTERIM TRUST FUND
The establishment of the Interim Trust Fund (iTF)    iTF totaled SDR 1,971 million; SDR 163 million in
with resources of SDR 2.2 billion was part of the  pledges from five donors remained outstanding and
funding arrangements proposed by IDA deputies in  are expected to be paid by the end of December
March 1996 for the iDA- II Replenishment period  1997. On this basis, total ITF resources are expected
(fiscal 1997-99). Its aim was to ensure adequate  to reach SDR 2,134 million.
availability of resources to fund credits in fiscal  In February 1997 the ITF donors reached an agree-
1997-99 in the face of the inability of one of the ma-    ment, later confirmed by IDA'S executive directors, af-
jor IDA donors (the United States) to contribute to  fecting the implementation of the ITF. The agreement
IDA- II until fiscal 1998, pending fulfillment of its  stipulated that up to SDR 700 million in ITF funds
commitments to IDA-IO. Decisionmaking and pro-   uncommitted as of the end offiscal 1997 would
curement eligibility affecting credits funded by the iTF   remain unallocated. It also specified that the use of
are limited to rTF donor countries and to countries  such funds (that is, with or without procurement
that are eligible to borrow from the IBRD and IDA.  restrictions) would be determined by December 31,
Because of the procurement restrictions attached to   1997.
the ITF, the selection offiscal 1 997 projects to be  As of June 30, 1997, thirty-one ITF projects for SDR
funded by the ITF was carried out through a random  1,168 million had been approved-as part of total
and transparent process. Sixty-six projects were se-  IDA lending of 100 projects for SDR 3,260 million in
lected for iTF funding at a drawing held on July 9,  fiscal 1 997-and thirteen ITF projects for SDR 313
1996, with a regional distribution consistent with  million, which were postponed beyond fiscal 1997
that of the overall fiscal 1997 IDA lending program.  after the February agreement, were part of the fiscal
The list of ITF projects, together with the main fea-  1998 (twelve projects) and 1999 (one project) IDA
tures of the eFr, notably its procurement restrictions,  lending program. In addition, consistent with the
was widely disseminated (and updated as needed)  February 1997 agreement, SDR 653 million in ITF
outside the Word Bank-mainly through the Bank's   funds remained unallocated and pending determina-
World Wide Web site and through Development      tion of their use by rrF donors. This included SDR 405
Business,' a United Nations publication aimed at  million in iTF projects that had been postponed be-
potential suppliers, to which the World Bank     yond fiscal 1997, before the February agreement,
Monthly Operational Summary is attached.         and that were subsequently reclassified from ITF to
The ITF became effective in November 1996, and  regular IDA funding.
the first iTF projects were approved in December
1996. As of June 30, 1997, donor payments to the  1. United Nations. Development Forum Business Edition. New
York.
provision for loan losses by $193 million. In to-     Reserves. On June 30, 1997, reserves
tal, expressed in United States dollar terms, the   amounted to $16,279 million, and the reserves-
total assets fell by $8,206 million and total li-   to-loan ratio stood at 14 percent.
abilities by $6,734 million.
On June 30, 1997, the total subscribed capital   IDA finances
of the IBRD was $182.4 billion, or 97 percent of      IDA'S commttment authority. IDA is mainly
authorized capital of $188 billion. During fiscal    funded by donor contributions. Such funds are
year 1997, subscriptions to the 1988 general        "replenished" by an agreement among donors
capital increase (GCI) were closed. Twenty-seven    every three years. Fiscal 1997 was the first year
countries subscribed an aggregate $1.8 billion      of the eleventh replenishment of IDA (IDA-I 1).
during the year. Total subscriptions under the      The total expected commitment authority for
1988 GCI were $79.1 billion from 157 countries.   IDA-l l is SDR 14.4 billion, including the Interim
At the end of fiscal 1997, the permissible in-      Trust Fund (ITF) administered by IDA (see box
crease of net disbursements ("headroom")            5-1), which was established by all IDA donors,
was $92.8 billion, or 47 percent of the IBRD'S      except the United States, to fund operations
lending limit.
SECTION FIVE  WORLD BANK FINANCES  139



BOX 5-2. REVIEW OF IDA ACTIVITIES IN FISCAL YEARS 1994-96
In January 1997 the executive directors of the  evaluate how IDA is achieving its objectives. They
Bank met to discuss a report' on the use of resources    welcomed the summaries of assistance strategies for
during the three-year period covered by the tenth re-    fifty-four IDA countries that were included in the re-
plenishment of IDA (fiscal years 1994-96, or IDA- I 0).    port. They noted that recipient country officials and
IDA increased the scope of its activities to meet new  community leaders increasingly participate in deter-
challenges as the number of IDA-eligible countries rose    mining development priorities and that wider partici-
from seventy to seventy-nine during the IDA- l Ope-  pation should be used to increase the effectiveness of
riod. These seventy-nine countries are the world's  IDA's programs and projects in the years to come.
poorest and are home to 3.3 billion people-some 57    They also recommended that IDA redouble its effort to
percent of the world's population.                 support economic growth that would reach the poor-
The report examines how IDA helped its borrowers'   est and particularly enhance the well-being and sta-
efforts to improve the living standards of their people    tus of women.
and achieve faster, environmentally sustainable      More than 900 IDA-financed projects were under
growth. The directors emphasized that there is a   implementation during the iDA-IO period, and there
widely shared sense of urgency and commitment on   was growing emphasis on effective portfolio manage-
IDA's poverty reduction goal but also noted that the  ment. The directors welcomed the quickened pace of
objective is still far out of reach.              disbursements-which exceeded $17 billion over the
The directors welcomed the increased emphasis on    three-year period under review. The quality of IDA's
policy performance and the resulting concentration of   portfolio has started to improve. The report shows
lending in countries with sound policies where IDA re-    how this assistance is supporting the borrowers'
sources can be used most effectively. They noted IDA's   economies and helping deliver basic public services to
efforts to improve economic governance but also that    poor people. The directors asked that monitoring of
public institutions remained weak in many IDA coun-   the impact of projects and programs continue to be
tries. Strengthening of basic capacity in public ad-  improved.
ministration and in enforcement of laws governing    The directors noted that iDA had a critical and
commercial contracts, investment, and other market  unique role in assisting countries with formulation of
activities was particularly important. During the  sound economic policies, particularly in public expen-
iDA-i O period, IDA lending to Sub-Saharan Africa, at    diture and aid coordination, but that the low health
40 percent of the total, was less than originally pro-  and education status of the people in iDA countries
jected due to poor policy performance and civil con-  means that much remains to be done. Increasing the
flicts in some African countries. The rate of commit-  effectiveness of public expenditure, especially in the
ments to the region also slowed because of iDA's  social sectors, can significantly enhance the develop-
sharper focus on advancing existing operations before    ment prospects in the poorest countries. The report
launching new ones and because greater attention  shows that IDA made a significant direct contribution
was paid to the quality of new projects. The execu-  to delivering better social services, as disbursements
tive directors appreciated the efforts by governments    for investment projects in the social sectors grew
and the Bank to increase attention to implementa-  rapidly to reach $1.5 billion in fiscal year 1996. The
tion, which enabled IDA to increase disbursements  directors felt that renewed emphasis on agriculture
substantially to African countries during the iDA-1 0  and rural development may be warranted in the fu-
period.                                            ture and that this would be considered in individual
IDA assistance strategies are tailored to country cir-   country assistance strategies.
cumstances. The directors noted that IDA's strategy
formulation process had matured and that the CAS   1. World Bank. 1997. IDA in Action 1993-1996: The Pursuit of
Sustained Poverty Reduction. Washington, D. C (Also available
documents are now a useful means for them to      as a summary report.)
while the United States becomes current on           period July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1999. The
IDA-1 0.                                             commitment authority for IDA-l  comprises
IDA- 11 is intended to provide IDA with the re-    SDR 4.7 billion from IDA-l I donor contribu-
sources to fund credits committed during the         tions, SDR 2.2 billion from donor contribu-
140 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



tions to the ITF, SDR 1.3 billion from the     went to Africa, 17 percent to East Asia and the
unreleased portion of contributions carried over   Pacific, 30 percent to South Asia, 11 percent
from the IDA-IO period, and SDR 6.2 billion from    to Europe and Central Asia, and 3 percent to
other resources (mainly commitments of ex-     both Latin America and the Caribbean and the
pected repayments of past IDA credits), includ-  Middle East and North Africa.
ing IBRD net income transfers. ITF donor contri-  Box 5-2 reviews IDA activities for the IDA-1 0
butions were made available in one tranche     period.
during 1997. As of June 30, 1997, IDA has re-    IDA'S commitment fee. For each fiscal year the
ceived ITF contributions from thirty donors. To-    level of commitment fee is set by the executive
tal contributions received at the end of fiscal  directors based on an annual review of IDA's fi-
1997 amount to SDR 1,971 million. IDA-1 I do-  nancial position. The commitment fee for fiscal
nor contributions are to be made available in  1998 was set at 0 percent for all IDA credits.
two annual tranches during fiscal 1998 and fis-    IDA'S commitment fee has been 0 percent from
cal 1999.                                      fiscal year 1989 through fiscal 1997.
In addition to the ITF, commitment authority
for IDA-Il operations during fiscal 1997 was
provided mainly by other resources, including
the transfer of SDR 416 million from the IBRD'S
fiscal 1996 net income and SDR 1,860 million of
commitment authority against repayments and
other income. Of the latter amount, SDR 1,750
million is for regular credits and another SDR
110 million is for supplementary credits for IDA
borrowers with IBRD loans outstanding. IDA-II
commitment authority was also augmented by
SDR 783 million in the release of donor contri-
butions carried over from the IDA- I0 period.
This amount was made available when the
United States paid $700 million toward its
IDA-I 0 contribution. This payment triggered
the release of the corresponding amount in
Germany's contribution that had been unavail-
able for commitment authority. At the end of
fiscal 1997, available resources for IDA-l l
operations totaled SDR 3,059 million, bringing
total available resources for all of IDA-i 1 to SDR
5,030 million.
Against these resources, IDA has made com-
mitments of SDR 3,260 million during fiscal
1997, of which SDR 1,168 million was funded
by the ITF and SDR 2,092 million was funded by
IDA-1 resources. Of this amount, 36 percent
SECTfON FIVE WORLD BANK FINANCES  141






IBRD/IDA APPENDICES
1. Governors and Alternates of the World Bank   144
2. Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank and their Voting Power   149
3. Officers of the World Bank   152
4. Offices of the World Bank   153
5. Country Eligibility for Borrowing from the World Bank   157
6. World Bank Budget by Expense Category and Administrative Program,
Fiscal Years 1995-98   159
7. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Eligible Borrowing Countries for Local
and Foreign Procurement in Fiscal Year 1997   160
8. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement   162
9. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement,
by Description of Goods, Fiscal Year 1997   164
10. IBRD and IDA Disbursements for Foreign Expenditures, by Description of Goods,
(for Investment Lending), Fiscal Years 1995-97 166
11. Estimates of IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign
Procurement under Adjustment Lending, Fiscal Year 1997   167
12. IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and Region,
June 30,1997   168
13. IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor,
June 30,1997   170
14. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1997, by Region and
Country   174
15. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1997, by Sector 176
16. Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal Year 1997   182
APPENDICES 143



GOVERNORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE WORLD BANK                                                     APPENDIX 1
Juzne 30, 1997
Member                                Governor                                  Alternate
Afghanistan                           Abdul Hadi Arghadiwal                     Mohammad Ehsan
Albania                               Arben Malaj                               Edmond Leka
Algeria                               Abdelkrim Harchaoui                       Ali Hamdi
Angola                                Emmanuel Moreira Carneiro                 Sebastiao Bastos Lavrador
Antigua and Barbuda t                 John E. St. Luce                          Ludolpb Brown
Argentina                             Roque Benjamin Fernandez                  Pedro Pou
Armenia                               Vahram Avanessian                         Bagrat Asatryan
Australia                             Peter Costello                            Andrew Thomson
Austria                               Rudolph Edlinger                          Hans Dietmar Schweisgut
Azerbaijan                            Elman Siradjogly Rustamov                 Fuad Akhundov
Bahamas, The t                        Hubert A. Ingraham                        Ruth Millar
Bahrain t                             Ibrahim Abdul Karim                       Zakaria Ahmed Hejres
Bangladesh                            Shah A.M.S. Kibria                        Masihur Rahman
Barbados t                            Owen S. Arthur                            Erskine R. Griffith
Belarus t                             Pyotr P. Prokopovich                      Vladimir N. Shimov
Belgium                               Philippe Maystadt                         Alfons Verplaetse
Belize                                Manuel Esquivel                           Yvonne S. Hyde
Benin                                 Albert Tevoedjre                          Felix Adimi
Bhutan                                Dorji Tshering                            Yeshey Zimba
Bolivia                               Juan Fernando Candia Castillo             Gonzalo Afcha
Bosnia and Herzegovina                Hasan Muratovic                           Drago Bilandzija
Botswana                              Festus G. Mogae                           O.K. Matambo
Brazil                                Pedro Sampaio Malan                       Gustavo J. Laboissiere Loyola
Brunei Darussalam t                   Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah              Haji Selamat Haji Munap
Bulgaria t                            Muravei Radev                             Plamen S. Lltchev
Burkina Faso                          Tertius Zongo                             Patrice Nikiema
Burundi                               Niyibigira Gerard                         Minani Evariste
Cambodia                              Keat Chhon                                Sun Chan Thol
Cameroon                              Edouard Akame Mfoumou                     Isaac Njiemoun
Canada                                Paul Martin                               Huguette Labelle
Cape Verde                            Antonio Gualberto do Rosario              Jose Ulisses Silva
Central African Republic              Christophe Bremaidou                      Anicet-Georges Dologuele
Chad                                  Bichara Cherif Daoussa                    Abderhamane Dadi
Chile                                 Eduardo Aninat                            Joaquin Vial
China                                 Liu Zhongli                               Liu Jibin
Colombia                              Jose Antonio Ocampo                       Cecilia Lopez
Comoros                               Mohamed Ali Soilihi                       Ali Boina Mze
Congo, Democratic Republic of         (vacant)                                  (vacant)
Congo, Republic of                    Nguila Moungounga-Nkombo                  George Tsiba
Costa Rica                            Francisco de Paula Gutierrez              Rodrigo Bolanos Zamora
144 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Member                                Governor                                  Alternate
C6te d'lvoire                         Daniel Kablan Duncan                      N'Goran Niamien
Croatia                               Bozo Prka                                 Josip Kulisic
Cyprus                                Christodoulos Christodoulou               Antonis Malaos
Czech Republic                        Ivan Kocarnik                             Jan Vit
Denmark                               Poul Nielson                              Ellen Margrethe Loj
Djibouti                              Mohamed Ali Mohamed                       Hawa Ahmed Youssouf
Dominica                              Julius C. Timothy                         Gilbert Williams
Dominican Republic                    Hector Manuel Valdez Albizu               Luis Manuel Piantini M.
Ecuador                               Carlos Davalos-Rodas                      Ernesto Perez-Cajiao
Egypt, Arab Republic of               Atef Mohamed Mohamed Ebeid                Yousef Boutros Ghali
El Salvador                           Manuel Enrique Hinds                      Jose Roberto Orellana Milla
Equatorial Guinea                     Baltasar Engonga Edjo                     Antonio Nve Ngu
Eritrea                               Haile Woldense                            Gebreselassie Yosief
Estonia t                             Mart Opmann                               Agu Lellep
Ethiopia                              Sufian Ahmed                              Girma Birru
Fiji                                  Berenado Vunibobo                         Tevita K. Banuve
Finland                               Sauli Niinisto                            Pekka Haavisto
France                                Jean Arthuis                              Jean Lemierre
Gabon                                 Jean Ping                                 Richard Onouviet
Gambia, The                           Dominic Mendy                             Yusupha A. Kah
Georgia                               David Iakobidze                           Vladimer Papava
Germany                               Carl-Dieter Spranger                      Juergen Stark
Ghana                                 Richard Kwame Peprah                      Kwesi Amissah-Arthur
Greece                                Yannos Papantoniou                        Christos Pachtas
Grenada                               Keith Mitchell                            Linus Spencer Thomas
Guatemala                             Jose Alejandro Arevalo Alburez            Willy W Zapata Sagastume
Guinea                                Ousmane Kaba                              Cellou Dalein Diallo
Guinea-Bissau                         Issufo Sanha                              Paulo Gomes
Guyana                                Bharrat Jagdeo                            Michael Sheer Chan
Haiti                                 Fred Joseph                               Jean Erick Deryce
Honduras                              Guillermo Bueso                           Juan Ferrera
Hungary                               Peter Medgyessy                           Almos Kovacs
Iceland                               Halldor Asgrimsson                        Fridrik Sophusson
India                                 P. Chidambaram                            Montek Singh Abluwalia
Indonesia                             Mar'ie Muhammad                           Boediono
Iran, Islamic Republic of             Morteza Mohammad-Khan                     Aliakbar Arabmazar
Iraq                                  Issam Rashid Hwaish                       Hashim Ali Obaid
Ireland                               Charlie McCreevy                          Paddy Mullarkey
Israel                                Jacob A. Frenkel                          Shmuel Slavin
Italy                                 Antonio Fazio                             Mario Draghi
APPENDIX ONE 145



GOVERNORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE WORLD BANK (continued)                                            APPENDIX
June 30, 1997
Member                                  Governor                                   Alternate
Jamaica t                               Omar Lloyd Davies                          Wesley Hughes
Japan                                   Hiroshi Mitsuzuka                          Yasuo Matsushita
Jordan                                  Rima Khalaf Hunaidi                        Nabil Ammari
Kazakhstan                             Alexander S. Pavlov                         Umizrak E. Shukeev
Kenya                                  W. Musalia Mudavadi                         Simeon S. Lesrima
Kiribati                               Beniamina Tinga                             Kaburoro Ruaia
Korea, Republic of                      Kyong Shik Kang                            Kyung Shik Lee
Kuwait                                 Nasser Abdullah Al-Roudhan                  Bader Meshari Al-Humaidhi
Kyrgyz Republic                         Talaybek J. Koichumanov                    Askar 1. Sarygulov
Lao People's Democratic Republic        Xaysomphone Phomvihane                     Phiane Philakone
Latvia                                  Roberts Zile                               Guntars Krasts
Lebanon                                 Fuad A.B. Siniora                          Nabil Al-Jisr
Lesotho                                 Leketekete Victor Ketso                    Esselen Motiatsi Matekane
Liberia                                Francis M. Carbah                           Lasanah V Kromah
Libya                                  Mohamed A. Bait Elmal                      Bashir Ali Khallat
Lithuania t                            Algirdas G. Semeta                         Jonas Niaura
Luxembourg                             Marc Fischbach                             Yves Mersch
Macedonia, former                      Taki Fiti                                   Zlatka Popovska
Yugoslav Republic of
Madagascar                             Pierrot J. Rajaonarivelo                    Constant Horace
Malawi                                 Aleke K. Banda                              Kalonga Stambuli
Malaysia                               Anwar bin Ibrahim                           Clifford Francis Herbert
Maldives                                Fathulla Jameel                            Adam Maniku
Mali                                    Soumaila Cisse                             Ibrahima Konate
Malta t                                 Leo Brincat                               Joseph P. Portelli
Marshall Islands                       Ruben R. Zackhras                           Michael Konelios
Mauritania                             Mohamed Ould Amar                           Mohamed Lemine Ould Deidah
Mauritius                              Rajkeswur Purryag                           Dharam Dev Manraj
Mexico                                  Guillermo Ortiz                            Martin M. Werner
Micronesia, Federated                  John Ehsa                                   Sebastian L. Anefal
States of
Moldova                                Valeriu Sergiu Kitsan                       Dumitru Ursu
Mongolia                                Puntsagiin Tsagaan                         Jigjid Udenbat
Morocco                                 Mohamed Kabbaj                             Abdelfettah Benmansour
Mozambique                             Adriano Afonso Maleiane                     Luisa Dias Diogo
Myanmar                                Win Tin                                     Soe Lin
Namibia t                               Saara Kuugongelwa                          Usutuaije Maamberua
Nepal                                   Rabindra Nath Sharma                       Ram Binod Bhattarai
Netherlands                             Gerrit Zalm                               Johannes Pieter Pronk
New Zealand                             Winston Peters                             Murray J. Horn
Nicaragua                              Esteban Duque Estrada                       Mario De Franco
Niger                                  Amadou Boubacar Cisse                       Ahmadou Mayaki
146 THE WORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



Member                                Governor                                  Alternate
Nigeria                               Anthony A. Ani                            Umaru A. Alkaleri
Norway                                Jens Stoltenberg                          Kari Nordheim-Larsen
Oman                                  Abmed Bin Abdulnabi Macki                 Mohammed Bin Musa Al Yousef
Pakistan                              Sartaj Aziz                               Javed Burki
Panama                                Guillermo 0. Chapman, Jr.                 Miguel Heras
Papua New Guinea                      Christopher Haiveta                       Isaac Lupari
Paraguay                              Miguel Angel Maidana Zayas                Jose Ernesto Buttner Limprich
Peru                                  Jorge Camet                               Alfredo Jalilie Awapara
Philippines                           Roberto F de Ocampo                       Gabriel C. Singson
Poland                                Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz                   Witold Kozinski
Portugal                              Antonio de Sousa Franco                   Fernando Teixeira dos Santos
Qatar t                               Mohammed Bin Khalifa Al-Thani             Abdullah Bin Khalid Al-Attiyah
Romania t                             Mircea Ciumara                            Vladimir Soare
Russian Federation                    Anatoly Chubais                           Yevgeni Yasin
Rwanda                                Jean Berchmans Birara                     Jean Marie Karekezi
St. Kitts and Nevis                   Denzil Douglas                            Timothy Harris
St. Lucia                             Kenny D. Anthony                          Cletus Springer
St. Vincent and                       James E Mitchell                          Maurice Edwards
the Grenadines
Sao Tome and Principe                 Acacio Elba Bonfim                        Maria das Neves Batista de Sousa
Saudi Arabia                          Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf                       Jobarah Al-Suraisry
Senegal                               Papa Ousmane Sakho                        Papa Salla Mboup
Seychelles t                          (vacant)                                  Emmanuel Faure
Sierra Leone                          Thaimu Bangura                            Samura Kamara
Singapore t                           Richard Hu Tsu Tau                        Ngiam Tong Dow
Slovak Republic                       Sergej Kozlik                             Vladimir Masar
Slovenia                              Mitja Gaspari                             Stanislava Zadravec Caprirolo
Solomon Islands                       Edmund Andresen                           Snyder Rini
Somalia                               (vacant)                                  (vacant)
South Africa                          Trevor Andrew Manuel                      Gill Marcus
Spain                                 Rodrigo de Rato Figaredo                  Jose Manuel Fernandez Nomiella
Sri Lanka                             Chandrika Bandaranaika Kamaratunga        B.C. Perera
Sudan                                 Abdel Wahab Osman                         Izzedin Ibrahim Hassan
Suriname t                            Motilall Mungra                           Henk 0. Goedschalk
Swaziland                             Albert Shabangu                           Musa D. Fakudze
Sweden                                Erik Asbrink                              Pierre Schori
Switzerland                           Jean-Pascal Delamuraz                     Flavio Cotti
Syrian Arab Republic                  Mohammed Khaled Al-Mahayni                Adnan Al-Satti
Tajikistan                            Yakyo N. Azimov                           Murotali M. Alimardanov
Tanzania                              Nassoro Malocho                           Raphael 0. Mollel
Thailand                              Thanong Bidaya                            M.R. Chatu Mongol Sonakul
APPENDIX ONE 147



GOVERNORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE WORLD BANK (continued)                                            APPENDIX I
June 30, 1997
Member                                  Governor                                  Alternate
Togo                                    Kwassi Klutse                              Kossi Assimaidou
Tonga                                   Kinikinilau Tutoatasi Fakafanua           'Aisake V. Eke
Trinidad and Tobago                     Brian Kuei Tung                            T Ainswortb Harewood
Tunisia                                 Mohamed Ghannouchi                         Taoufik Baccar
Turkey                                 Mehmet Kaytaz                               Cuneyt Sel
Turkmenistan t                          Hudaiberdy A. Orazov                       Ovez Agaev
Uganda                                 Jehoash Mayanja-Nkangi                      Richard H. Kaijuka
Ukraine t                              Roman Shpek                                Vasiliy Gureyev
United Arab Emirates                    Hamdan bin Rashid Al-Maktoum               Mohamed Khalfan bin Kharbash
United Kingdom                          Clare Short                                Gordon Brown
United States                          Robert E. Rubin                            Joan E. Spero
Uruguay t                               Luis Mosca                                 Ariel Davrieux
Uzbekistan                              Bakbtiyar S. Hamidov                       Akram Mukhidov
Vanuatu                                Willie Jimmy                                Malachai Russel
Venezuela t                             Luis Raul Matos Azocar                     Teodoro Petkoff
Vietnam                                 Cao Sy Kiem                                Le Duc Thuy
Western Samoa                           Tuilaepa S. Malielegaoi                    Epa Tuioti
Yemen, Republic of                      Abdul Kader Bajamal                        Mutahar A. Al-Saeedi
Zambia                                 Ronald Damson Siame Penza                   Benjamin Mweene
Zimbabwe                               Herbert M. Murerwa                          Leonard Ladislas Tsumba
t Not a member of IDA
148 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES                                                       APPENDIX 2
OF THE WORLD BANK AND
THEIR VOTING POWER
June 30, 1997
IBRD                 IDA
Executive                                                              Total     % of      Total      % of
director          Alternate         Casting votes of                  votes      total     votes     total
Appointed
Jan Piercy        Michael Marek     United States                     265,219     17.04  1,650,557      15.31
Atsuo Nishihara   Rintaro Tamakib   Japan                              94,020      6.04  1,154,286      10.70
Helmut Schaffer   Erika Wagenhofer  Germany                            72,649      4.67    747,221       6.93
Marc-Antoine     Olivier Bourges    France                             69,647      4.47    451,054       4.18
Autheman
Gus O'Donnell    David Stanton      United Kingdom                     69,647      4.47    540,211       5.01
Elected
Luc Hubloue      Namik Dagalp       Austria, Belarus,' Belgium, Czech  76,720      4.93   457,116        4.24
(Belgium)        (Turkey)           Republic, Hungary, Kazakhstan,
Luxembourg, Slovak Republic,
Slovenia, Turkey
Pieter Stek      Mioara lonescu     Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,    72,208     4.64    385,177       3.57
(Netherlands)    (Romania)          Bulgaria,' Croatia, Cyprus,
Georgia, Israel, Macedonia (former
Yugoslav Republic of), Moldova,
Netherlands, Romania,' Ukraine'
Enzo Del Bufalo   Roberto           Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,    69,110  4.44    233,470       2.17
(Venezuela)      Jimenez-Ortiz'    Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua,
(El Salvador)     Panama, Spain, Venezuela'
Leonard Good     Winston Cox        Antigua and Barbuda,'The           62,217      4.00   437,950        4.06
(Canada)         (Barbados)         Bahamas,' Barbados,' Belize,
Canada, Dominica, Grenada,
Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica,'
St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Joaquim R.        Godfrey Gaoseb    Angola, Botswana, Burundi,         55,190      3.55    442,655       4.11
Carvalho         (Namibia)          Eritrea, Ethiopia, The Gambia,
(Mozambique)                        Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi,
Mozambique, Namibia,' Nigeria,
Seychelles,' Sierra Leone,
South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland,
Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia,
Zimbabwe
Franco           Helena Cordeiro    Albania, Greece, Italy, Malta,'    55,093      3.54    389,870       3.62
Passacantando    (Portugal)         Portugal
(Italy)
Surendra Singh   Syed Ahmed         Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,         54,945      3.53    457,908       4.25
(India)          (Bangladesh)       Sri Lanka
Kacim Brachemi   Abdul Karim Lodhi Afghanistan, Algeria, Ghana,        54,602      3.51    237,006       2.20
(Algeria)        (Pakistan)         Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Morocco, Pakistan, Tunisia
Ruth Jacobyd     JorgenVarder       Denmark, Estonia,'a Finland,       50,839      3.27    516,892       4.79
(Sweden)         (Denmark)          Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania,'
Norway, Sweden
APPENDIX Two 149



EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES                                                    APPENDIX 2
OF THE WORLD BANK AND
THEIR VOTING POWER (continued)
June30, 1997
IBRD                IDA
Execultive                                                           Total    % of       Total    'Y5 of
director         Alternate         Casting votes of                  votes    total      votes     total
Juanita D.       Murilo Portugal    Brazil, Colombia, Dominican     49,148    3.16     303,203     2.81
Amatong          (Brazil)          Republic, Ecuador, Haiti,
(Philippines)                      Philippines, Suriname,'
Trinidad and Tobago
Young-Hoi Lee    Christopher Y Legg Australia, Cambodia, Kiribati,  49,089    3.15     316,906     2.94
(Republic of     (Australia)       Korea (Republic of), Marshall
Korea)                            Islands, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mongolia, New Zealand,
Papua New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Vanuatu, Western Samoa
Jean-Daniel Gerber Jan Sulmicki    Azerbaijan, Kyrgyz Republic,     46,096    2.96     367,389     3.41
(Switzerland)    (Poland)          Poland, Switzerland, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan,' Uzbekistan
LiYong           Zhao Xiaoyu       China                            45,049    2.89     217,996     2.02
(China)          (China)
Khalid H.Alyahya Ibrahim M.        Saudi Arabia                     45,045    2.89     377,100     3.50
(Saudi Arabia)   Al-Mofleh
(Saudi Arabia)
Andrei Bugrov    Eugene Miagkov    Russian Federation               45,045    2.89      28,202     0.26
(Russian         (Russian
Federation)      Federation)
Khalid M. Al-Saad  Mohammed W      Bahrain,' Egypt (Arab Republic of),  43,984  2.83   250,660     2.32
(Kuwait)         Hosny             Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya,
(Arab Republic   Maldives, Oman, Qatar,' Syrian
of Egypt)        Arab Republic, United Arab
Emirates, Yemen (Republic of)
Jannes Hutagalung Sun Vithespongse   Brunei Darussalam,a Fiji, Indonesia,  41,096  2.64  292,376   2.71
(Indonesia)      (Thailand)        Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal,
Singapore,a Thailand, Tonga,
Vietnam
Juan Cariaga     Julio Nogues      Argentina, Bolivia, Chile,       37,499    2.41     200,001     1.85
(Bolivia)        (Argentina)       Paraguay, Peru, Uruguaya
Ali Bourhane     Luc-AbdiAden      Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,   32,252    2.07     327,811     3.04
(Comoros)        (Djibouti)        Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Comoros,
Congo (Democratic Republic of),
Congo (Republic of), C6te d'Ivoire,
Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea,
Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Niger, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Togo
150 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



In addition to the executive directors and alternates shown in the foregoing list, the following also served
after October 31, 1996:
Executive director          End of period of service     Alternate director          End of period of service
Huw Evans                   March 14,1997                Sergiy Kulyk                May 31, 1997
(United Kingdom)                                         (Ukraine)
Peter WE. Nicholl           May 31, 1997                 Mustafiqur Rahman           December 17,1996
(New Zealand)                                            (Bangladesh)
Zhu Guangyao                December 31, 1996
(China)
NOTE: Somalia (802 votes in iBRD and 10,506 votes in IDA) did not participate in the 1996 Regular Election of Executive Directors.
a. Member of the IBRD only.
b. To be succeeded by Akira Kamitomai (Japan) effective July 14, 1997.
c. To be succeeded by Inigo Fernandez de Mesa (Spain) effective July 1, 1997.
d. To be succeeded by Ilkka Niemi (Finland) effective August 5, 1997.
APPENDIX Two 151



OFFICERS OF THE WORLD BANK                                                               APPENDIX 3
June 30, 1997
President                                                                     James D. Wolfensohn
Managing Director, Corporate Planning & Resource Management                   Sven Sandstrom
Managing Director, Finance and Resource Mobilization                         Jessica P. Einhorn
Managing Director, Operations                                                 Gautam S. Kaji
Managing Director, Operations                                                 Caio K. Koch-Weser
Managing Director and Chairman, Private Sector Development Group              Richard H. Frank
Vice President, Africa                                                        Callisto Madavo
Vice President, Africa                                                        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Vice President and Controller                                                 Jules W. Muis
Senior Vice President, Development Economics, and Chief Economist             Joseph E. Stiglitz
Vice President, East Asia and Pacific                                         Jean-Michel Severino
Head, Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network            M. Ismail Serageldin
Vice President, Europe and Central Asia                                       Johannes Linn
Vice President, External Affairs                                              Mark Malloch Brown
Head, Finance, Private Sector Development, and Infrastructure Network         Jean-Francois Rischard
Vice President, Financial Policy and Risk Management                          Brian Wilson
Senior Vice President and General Counsel                                     Ibrahim E I. Shihata
Head, Human Development Network                                               David de Ferranti
Vice President, Human Resources                                               Dorothy Hamachi Berry
Vice President, Latin America and the Caribbean                               S. Javed Burki
Vice President, Middle East and North Africa                                  Kemal Dervis
Director-General, Operations Evaluation                                       Robert Picciotto
Head, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network                       Masood Ahmed
Vice President, Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing                         Hiroo Fukui
Vice President and Secretary                                                  ZHANG Shengman
Vice President, South Asia                                                    Mieko Nishimizu
Vice President, Strategy and Resource Management                              Mark Baird
Vice President and Treasurer                                                  Gary Perhn
152 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



OFFICES OF THE WORLD BANK                                                             APPENDIX 4
June 30, 1997
Headquarters: 1818 H Street, N.W.,Washington, D.C.20433, U.S.A.
New York Office: The World Bank Mission to the United Nations/New York Office, 809 United Nations Plaza, Suite 900, New
York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.
European Office: The World Bank, 66, avenue d'lena, 75116 Paris, France
Brussels: The World Bank, 10 rue Montoyer, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium
London: The World Bank, New Zealand House, 15th Floor, Haymarket, London, SWI Y4TE, England
Tokyo Office: The World Bank, Fukoku Seimei Building, 10-F, 2-2-2 Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa: The World Bank, Hill Park Building, Upper Hill, Nairobi, Kenya
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30577)
Regional Mission in Western Africa: The World Bank, Corner of Booker Washington and Jacques AKA Streets, Cocody, Abidj an
01, C6te d'lvoire
(mailing address: B. P. 1850)
Regional Mission in Thailand: The World Bank, 14th Floor, Tower A, Diethelm Towers, 93/1 Wireless Road, Bangkok 10330,
Thailand
Regional Mission in Latvia: The World Bank, Kalku Street 15, Riga, Latvia LV-1 162
Baltics Regional Mission Satellite in Estonia: The World Bank, Kohtu 8, Tallinn EE01 00, Estonia
Baltics Regional Mission Satellite in Lithuania: The World Bank, Vilniaus Str. 28, 2600 Vilnius, Lithuania
Albania: The World Bank, Deshmoret e 4 Shkurtit, No. 34, Tirana, Albania
Angola: Banco Mundial, Rua Alfredo Troni (Edificio BPC), 150 Andar, CP 1331, Luanda, Angola
Argentina: Banco Mundial, Avenida Leandro N. Alem 628-30, Piso 12, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Armenia: The World Bank, Republic Square, 2 Khorhertarani Street, Yerevan 10, Armenia
Azerbaijan: The World Bank, Neftchilar Avenue, Apartment 65, Baku, Azarbaijan
Bangladesh: The World Bank, 3A Paribagh, Dhaka, Bangladesh
(mailing address: G.P.. 97, Dhaka 1000)
Belarus: The World Bank, 6A Partizansky Avenue, 5th Floor, Minsk 220033, Republic of Belarus
Benin: The World Bank, Zone R6sidentielle de la Radio, Cotonou, Benin
(mailing address: B. P. 03-2112)
Bolivia: Banco Mundial, Edificio BISA, Piso 9, 16 de Julio 1628, La Paz, Bolivia
(mailing address: Casilla 8692)
Bosnia and Herzegovina: The World Bank, c/o National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Marsala Tito 25, 71000 Sarajevo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil: Banco Mundial, SCN Quadra 02-LoteA, Ed. Corporate Financial Center, Conjuntos 303/304, 70.712-900 Brasilia,
DF, Brazil
Brazil: Banco Mundial, Avenida Isaac Povoas, No. 1251, Edificio Nacional Palacios, Sala 603, Centro, 78.045-640 Cuiaba, Mato
Grosso (MT), Brazil
APPENDIX FOUR 153



OFFICES OF THE WORLD BANK (continued)                                                    APPENDIX 4
June 30, 1997
Brazil: Banco Mundial, Edificio SUDENE, S/IS-108 Cidade Universitaria, 50670-9001 Recife PE, Brazil
Bulgaria: The World Bank, World Trade Center-Sofia, 36 Dragan Tsankov Boulevard, Sofia, 1057 Bulgaria
Burkina Faso: The World Bank, Immeuble BICIA (3eme etage), Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
(mailing address: B. P. 622)
Burundi: The World Bank, Avenue du 18 Septembre, Bujumbura, Burundi
(mailing address: B. P. 2637)
Cameroon: The World Bank, New Bastos, Yaound6, Cameroon
(mailing address: B. P. 1128)
Central African Republic: Banque Mondiale, Rue des Missions, Bangui, C.A.R.
Chad: The World Bank, 3244 P.67, Quartier Curvette St. Martin, N'djamena, Chad
(mailing address: B.P. 146)
China: World Bank Resident Mission in China, 9th floor, Building A, Fuhua Mansion, No. 8 Chaoyangmen Beidajie, Dongcheng
District, Beijing 100027, China
Colombia: Banco Mundial, Diagonal 35 No. 5-98, Bogota, D.E., Colombia
(mailing address: Apartado Aereo 10229)
Congo, Democratic Republic of: World Bank Liaison Office, c/o UNDP, P 0. Box 7248, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo
Congo, Republic ofi Banque Mondiale, Immeuble Arc (56me etage), Avenue Amilcar Cabral, Brazzaville, Congo
(mailing address: B. P. 14536)
Costa Rica: Regional Implementation Mission-Banco Mundial, Bulevar Robrmoser, 150 mts. Oeste Residencia Ex-Presidente
Oscar Arias, San Jose, Costa Rica
(mailing address: C.P. 11925-1000)
Ecuador: Banco Mundial, Calle Juan Le6n Mera 130 yAve. Patria, Edificio Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional, 6to Piso, Quito, Ecuador
Egypt: The World Bank, World Trade Center, 1191 Corniche El-Nil, 15th Floor, Cairo, Egypt
Ethiopia: The World Bank, Africa Avenue, Bole Road, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 5515)
Georgia: The World Bank, 18A Chonkadze Street, Tbilisi, Georgia
Ghana: The World Bank, 69 Dr. Isert Road, Northridge Residential Area, Accra, Ghana
(mailing address: P.O. Box M27)
Guatemala: The World Bank, 13 Calle 3-40, Zona 10, Edificio Atlantis, 14 nivel, Guatemala City, Guatemala
Guinea: Banque Mondiale, Immeuble de l'Archeveche, Face Baie des Anges, Conakry, Guinea
(mailing address: B. P. 1420)
Haiti: The World Bank, c/o IDB, Bourdon 386, Port-au-Prince, Haiti
(mailing address: B.P. 1321)
Hungary: The World Bank, Bank Center, Granite Tower, Szabadsag ter 5-7, 1944 Budapest, Hungary
India: The World Bank, 70 Lodi Estate, New Delhi 110 003, India
(mailing address: P.O. Box 416, New Delhi 110 001)
154 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Indonesia: The World Bank, Lippolife Building, 3rd floor, J1. H. R. Rasuna Said, Kav. B-10, Kuningan, Jakarta 12940, Indonesia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 324/JKT)
Jamaica: The World Bank, Island Life Center, 3rd floor/north, 6 St. Lucia Avenue, Kingston 5, Jamaica
Kazakhstan: The World Bank, Samal-1, Bldg. No. 36, 3rd Floor, Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan 480099
Kyrgyz Republic: The World Bank, Moskovskaya and K. Akieva Streets, Bishkek 720000, Kyrgyz Republic
Macedonia, FeR of: The World Bank, 34 Leninova Street, 3rd floor, Skopje, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Madagascar: Banque Mondiale, I Rue Patrice Lumumba,Antananarivo 101, Madagascar
(mailing address: B. P.4140)
Malawi: The World Bank, Development House, Capital City, Lilongwe 3, Malawi
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30557)
Mali: Banque Mondiale, Immeuble SOGEFIH, Centre Commercial Rue 321, Quartier du Fleuve, Bamako, Mali
(mailing address: B. P. 1864)
Mauritania: The World Bank, Villa No. 30, Lot A, Quartier Socofim, Nouakchott, Mauritania
(mailing address: B. P. 667)
Mexico: The World Bank, Centro Insurgentes, Insurgentes Sur 1605, Piso 24, Col. San Jose Insurgentes, Del. Benito Juarez, 03900
Mexico, D.E
Moldova: The World Bank, 76/6 Sciuev Street, 277033 Chisinau, Moldova
Mozambique: The World Bank, Ave. Kenneth Kaunda, 1224, 2-Andar, Maputo, Mozambique
(mailing address: Caixa Postal 4053)
Nepal: World Bank, Hotel Yak and Yeti Complex, Kathmandu, Nepal
(mailing address: P.O. Box 798)
Niger: Banque Mondiale, 42 Rue des Dallols, Niamey, Niger
(mailing address: B. P. 12402)
Nigeria: The World Bank, Ist Floor, Plot PC-10, Engineering Close, off Idowu Taylor Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria
(mailing address: P.O. Box 127)
Nigeria: The World Bank, Plot 433, Ecowas Road, Opposite Ecowas Secretariat, Assokoro District, Abuja, Nigeria
(mailing address: P.O. Box 2826, Garki)
Pakistan: The World Bank, 20 A, Shahra-e-Jamhuriyat Ramna 5, G-5/1, Islamabad, Pakistan
(mailing address: PO. Box 1025)
Paraguay: The World Bank, Edificio City, Tercer Piso, Estrella 345, Casa Chile, Asunci6n, Paraguay
Peru: Banco Mundial, Avenida Pardo y Aliaga 640, Piso 16, San Isidro, Lima, Peru
Philippines: The World Bank, Central Bank of the Philippines, Multi-Storey Building, Room 200, Roxas Boulevard, Manila,
Philippines
Poland: The World Bank, INTRACO I Building, 17th Floor, 2 Stawki Street, 00-193 Warsaw, Poland
APPENDIX FOUR 155



OFFICES OF THE WORLD BANK (continued)                                                  APPENDIX 4
June 30,1997
Romania: The World Bank, Boulevard Dacia 83, Sector 2, Bucharest, Romania
Russia: The World Bank, Sadovo-Kudrinskaya No. 3, Moscow 123242, Russian Federation
Rwanda: The World Bank, Blvd. de la R6volution, SORAS Building, Kigali, Rwanda
(mailing address: P.O. Box 609)
Saudi Arabia: The World Bank Resident Mission, UNDP Building, King Faisal Street, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia 11432
(mailing address: P.O. Box 5900)
Senegal: The World Bank, Immeuble S.D.I.H., 3 Place de lIndependance, Dakar, Senegal
(mailing address: B. P. 3296)
South Africa: The World Bank, Grosvenor Gate, First Floor, Hyde Park Lane, Hyde Park 2196, Johannesburg, South Africa
(mailing address: P.O. Box 41283, Craig Hall 2024)
Sri Lanka: The World Bank, Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) Building, 1st Floor, 73/5 Galle Road,
Colombo 3, Sri Lanka
(mailing address: P.O. Box 1761)
Tajikistan: Dushanbe, Tajikistan
Tanzania: The World Bank, NI.C. Building (7th Floor, B), Samora Avenue, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania
(mailing address: P.O. Box 2054)
Togo: Banque Mondiale, 169 boulevard du 13 Janvier, Immeuble BTCI (8eme etage), Lom6, Togo
(mailing address: B. P. 3915)
Turkey: The World Bank, Ataturk Bulvari, No. 211, Gama-Guris Building Kat 6, 06683 Kavaklidere, Ankara, Turkey
Turkmenistan: Liaison Office, UNDP Building, Ashkhabad, Turkmenistan
Uganda: The World Bank, Rwenzori House, 1 Lumumba Avenue and 4 Nakasero Road, Kampala, Uganda
(mailing address: P.O. Box 4463)
Ukraine: The World Bank, 26, Shovkovychna St., Suites Two and Three, Kiev 252024, Ukraine
Uzbekistan: World Bank Field Office, 43, Academician Suleimanova St., Tashkent, Uzbekistan
Venezuela: Banco Mundial, Edificio Parque Cristal, Torre Oeste, Piso 15, Oficina 15-05, Avenida Francisco de Miranda,
Los Palos Grandes, Caracas, Venezuela
Vietnam: The World Bank, 53 Tran Phu Street, Hanoi, Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza: The World Bank, Gaza City, Gaza
Yemen: The World Bank, 14 Djibouti St., Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
(mailing address: PO. Box 18152)
Zambia: The World Bank, Red Cross House, 2nd Floor, Long Acres, Lusaka, Zambia,
(mailing address: P.O. Box 35410)
Zimbabwe: The World Bank, Finsure House, 5th Floor, 84-86 Union Avenue, Harare, Zimbabwe
(mailing address: P.O. Box 2960)
156 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



COUNTRY ELIGIBILITY FOR BORROWING                                                     APPENDIX 5
FROM THE WORLD BANK
(as of June 30, 1997)
COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR IBRD FUNDS ONLY
Income category                  1996 GNP              Income category                    1996 GNP
and country                   per capita (IJS$)a       and country                     per capita (US$)a
Per capita income over $5,435                          Latvia                                2,310
Slovenia                           9,160               Lithuania                             2,290
Argentina                           8,410              Colombia                              2,190
Antigua and Barbuda                 7,330              Belarus                               2,170
Seychelles                         6,960               Namibia                               2,080
Uruguay                             5,910              Micronesia                            2,050
St. Kitts and Nevis                5,820               Tunisia                               2,000
Marshall Islands                      1,860
Per capita income $3,116-$5,435                        Paraguay                               1,860
Chile                              4,920               El Salvador                           1,750
Czech Republic                     4,620              Jamaica                                1,620
Brazil                             4,360               Jordan                                 1,610
Malaysia                           4,300               Algeria                               1,570
Hungary                            4,180               Dominican Republic                    1,570
Gabon                              3,980               Ecuador                               1,530
Trinidad and Tobago                3,970               Botswana                                n.a.
Croatia                            3,830               Iran, Islamic Republic                  n.a.
Mauritius                          3,690               Panama                                  n.a.
Mexico                             3,640
Slovak Republic                    3,390              Per capita income $786-$1,505
Poland                             3,220               Guatemala                             1,470
SouthAfrica                        3,140               Romania                               1,440
Kazakhstan                            1,310
Per capita income $1,506-$3,115                        Morocco                               1,280
Estonia                            3,040               Bulgaria                              1,190
Lebanon                            3,030               Philippines                           1,190
Thailand                           3,020               Ukraine                               1,180
Venezuela                           2,990              Syrian Arab Republic                   1,160
Turkey                             2,890               Papua New Guinea                       1,150
Belize                             2,740               Indonesia                             1,090
Costa Rica                         2,640               Suriname                              1,050
Fiji                               2,470               Uzbekistan                            1,010
Peru                               2,410               Turkmenistan                            940
Russia                             2,400               Swaziland                               n.a.
COUNTRIES ELIGBLE FOR A BLEND OF IBRD AND IDA FUNDSb
Income category                  1996 GNP              Income category                    1996 GNP
and country                   per capita (US$)a        and country                     per capita (US$)a
Per capita income $3,116-$5,435                        Per capita incone $785 or less
St. Luciac                         3,430               China                                   750
Grenadac                           3,130              Armenia                                  620
Zimbabwe                                610
Per capita income $1,506-$3,115                        Moldova                                 600
Dominicac                          3,090               Kyrgyz Republic                         570
St. Vincent and the Grenadinesc    2,360               Pakistan                                490
Azerbaijan                              480
Per capita income $786-$1,505                          India                                   380
Egypt                               1,090              Nigeria                                 240
Macedonia, FYR of                    920               Bosnia and Herzegovina                  n.a.
Georgia                              850
(continued next page)
APPENDIX FIVE 157



COUNTRY ELIGIBILITY FOR BORROWING                                                         APPENDIX 5
FROM THE WORLD BANK (continued)
(as of June 30, 1997)
COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR IDA FUNDS ONLYb
Income category                    1996 GNP              Income category                       1996 GNP
and country                    per capita (US$)'         and country                       per capita (US$)'
Per capita income $1,506$3,115                           Sao Tom6 and Principe                     350
Tongac                              1,640                Angola                                    340
Kenya                                    330
Per capita income $786-$1,505                            Tajikistan                                330
Vanuatuc                            1,290                Central African Republic                  310
Western Samoac                      1,200                Cambodia                                  300
Cape Verde                          1,090                Haiti                                    300
Solomon Islands                      960                 Togo                                      300
Bolivia                              930                 Yemen, Republic of                        300
Kiribati                             870                 Uganda                                    290
Albania                              800                 Vietnam                                   290
Djibouti                             n.a.                Bangladesh                                260
Maldives                             n.a.                Guinea-Bissau                             250
Madagascar                               240
Per capita income $785 or less                           Mali                                      240
Sri Lanka                            740                 Burkina Faso                              220
Guyana                               710                 Nepal                                     220
Lesotho                              670                 Niger                                     200
Honduras                             650                 Sierra Leone                              200
Congo, Republic of                   620                 Rwanda                                    190
C6te d'Ivoire                        620                 Malawi                                    180
Cameroon                             610                 Chad                                      160
Guinea                               560                 Burundi                                   140
Senegal                              560                 Tanzania                                  130
Equatorial Guinea                    510                 Ethiopia                                  110
Mauritania                           470                 Mozambique                                 90
Comoros                              460                 Afghanistan                               n.a.
Zambia                               430                 Congo, Democratic Republic of             n.a.
Bhutan                               400                 Eritrea                                   n.a.
Nicaragua                            400                 Gambia, The                               n.a.
Lao People's Democratic Republic     380                 Liberia                                   n.a.
Benin                                360                 Myanmar                                   n.a.
Ghana                                360                 Somalia                                   n.a.
Mongolia                             360                 Sudan                                     n.a.
n.a. Precise figures not available.
a. World Bank Atlas methodology; per capita GNP figures are in 1996 US. dollars.
b. Countries are eligible for IDA on the basis of (a) relative poverty and (b) lack of creditworthiness. The operational cutofffor iDA eligi-
bility for Fr98 is a 1996 GNP per capita of $925, usingAtlas methodology. To receive IDA resources, countries also meet tests of perfor-
mance. In exceptional circumstances, IDA extends eligibility temporarily to countries that are above the operational cutoff and are
undertaking major adjustment efforts but are not creditworthy for IBRD lending. An exception has also been made for small island
economies (see footnote c).
c. During the IDA-1I period (Fe97-99), an exception to the GNP per capita operational cutofffor IDA eligibility ($925 for Fe98) has been
made for specific small island economies, which otherwise would have little or no access to Bank Group assistance because they lack
creditworthiness. For such countries, IDA funding is considered case by case for the financing of projects and adjustment programs
designed to strengthen creditworthiness.
158 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



WORLD BANK BUDGET BY EXPENSE CATEGORY                                                     APPENDIX 6
AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAM,
FISCAL YEARS 1995-98
(millions of US dollars)
Actual                               1998
Item                                            1995              1996              1997             Program
Expense Category
Staff costs                                     875.3             832.6             809.8             771.7
Consultants                                     111.9             119.5             118.5             144.7
Contractual services/representation              62.3              72.3              83.1             118.1
Operational travel                              127.5             126.1             125.1             141.1
Overhead                                        232.2             219.6             221.3             223.8
Direct contributions to Special                 110.9             105.3              112.5            114.1
Grants Programa
President's contingencyb                          n.a.              n.a.               n.a.            14.2
Reimbursements                                 (111.2)           (102.5)           (108.1)           (104.7)
Pending Benefit InitiativesC                      n.a.              3.2                n.a.             1.1
Total                                         1,409.0          1,376.1            1,362.3          1,423.9
Administrative programd
Regional                                        730.2             712.0             695.5             765.7
Financial                                       100.9              99.7             100.2             104.0
Networkse                                        65.9              65.4              63.5              80.4
Research and development training!               70.2              69.2              77.4              86.9
Administrative programs                         133.9             125.1              121.4            138.6
Corporate management, and legal services         90.8              95.5              96.7              99.9
Total                                         1,191.9          1,166.9            1,154.8          1,275.5
Centrally managed overhead/benefits             119.1             126.6             116.7              28.69
Reimbursable escrow                               n.a.              n.a.              n.a.              1.8
President's contingency                                             n.a.              n.a.             14.2
Pending benefit initiativesc                      n.a.              n.a.              n.a.              1.1
Cost effectiveness review                                           n.a.              3.4               1.5
Salary price reserve                                                n.a.              n.a.              1.0
Reimbursements                                 (111.2)           (102.5)           (108.1)           (104.7)
Net administrative programs                    1,199.8          1,191.0            1,166.9          1,219.0
Non-discretionary Items                          18.5h              n.a.               n.a.             n.a.
Special programs'                               119.1            113.0              120.4             122.1
Boards                                           55.8              56.1               58.6             65.7
Operations evaluation                            15.7              16.0               16.3             17.1
Total Budget                                  1,409.0          1,376.1            1,362.3           1,423.9
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
n.a. Not applicable.
a. Includes Institutional Development Fund.
b. Allocations from president's contingency have been included in respective categories/programs for FY94-96.
c. Accrual/provisional allocations subject to Board approval of the policy initiatives.
d. The expenditures allocations by program are based on program reclassification in FY97 as showm in The World Bank
Programs and FY98 Budgets (Annex B.3).
e. Budgets remapped expenditures of four networks (Human Development; Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure, Environmentally
and Socially Sustainable Development; and Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, which were created out of units previously
classified under Development and Advisory Services.
f. Includes Economic Development Institute and funds for Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FLMs).
g. Reflects reduction in benefits expenses resultingffrom (i) one-time savings in pension contribution ($76 million), and (ii) charging
management fees for retirement ($28.1 million) to the respective pension assets instead of the administrative budget.
h. One-time charges of $9.1 million to fund accrual for local staff termnination grants for prior years, and $9.4 million to fund accruals
for benefit costs of redundant staff processes prior to February 21, 1995.
i. Includes direct contributions to and administrative costs of the Special Programs.
APPENDIX SIX 159



IBRD AND IDA PAYMENTS TO SUPPLYING                                                           APPENDIX 7
ELIGIBLEa BORROWING COUNTRIES FOR
LOCAL AND FOREIGN PROCUREMENT IN FISCAL YEAR 1997
(millions of US dollars)
Percentage
BorroNving                                 Local             Foreign            Total             of total
countries                               procurement       procurement          amount          disbursementsb
Albania                                     11                  1                 12               0.06
Algeria                                     32                  4                 36               0.18
Angola                                      10                 -                  10                  *
Argentina                                  459                 22                481               2.44
Armenia                                     17                  1                 18               0.09
Bangladesh                                 152                  t                152               0.77
Belarus                                      t                 10                 10               0.05
Benin                                       14                  t                 14               0.07
Bolivia                                     77                  t                 77               0.39
Bosnia and Herzegovina                      18                 -                  18               0.09
Brazil                                    1,393                46              1,439               7.28
Bulgaria                                     4                  3                  6                  *
Burkina Faso                                33                  2                 34               0.17
Burundi                                      6                  t                  7                  *
Cambodia                                    11                 -                  11               0.06
Cameroon                                     6                  t                  6                  *
Cape Verde                                   5                                     5                  *
Central African Republic                     5                  t                  5                  *
Chad                                        15                  t                 15               0.08
Chile                                       74                  4                 78               0.40
China                                    1,268                147              1,415               7.16
Colombia                                   117                  3                120               0.61
Costa Rica                                   8                  7                 15               0.07
C6te d'Ivoire                              126                 12                137               0.69
Croatia                                     51                  1                 52               0.26
Cyprus                                       5                 13                 18               0.09
Czech Republic                              14                  4                 18               0.09
Dominican Republic                          15                  t                 15               0.07
Ecuador                                     32                 12                 44               0.22
Egypt,ArabRepublicof                       109                  3                113               0.57
El Salvador                                 18                  t                 19               0.09
Estonia                                      8                  1                  8                  *
Ethiopia                                    16                  t                 16               0.08
Fiji                                         7                  1                  8                  *
Gambia, The                                  9                  t                  9                  *
Georgia                                      7                  2                  9                  *
Ghana                                       84                  1                 85               0.43
Guatemala                                   11                  t                 11               0.06
Guinea                                      21                  t                 21               0.11
Guinea-Bissau                                7                 -                   7                  *
Guyana                                       8                  t                  8                  *
Haiti                                       35                 -                  35               0.17
Honduras                                    26                  1                 28               0.14
Hungary                                     42                 11                 53               0.27
India                                    1,234                 88              1,322               6.69
Indonesia                                  623                  9                632               3.20
Iran, Islamic Republic of                   47                  3                 50               0.25
Jamaica                                     22                  t                 22               0.11
Jordan                                      20                  7                 27               0.14
Kazakhstan                                   4                  1                  5
Kenya                                       46                  7                 52               0.26
Korea, Republic of                         112                147                260               1.31
Lao People's Democratic Republic            34                 -                  34               0.17
Latvia                                      25                  t                 25               0.13
Lebanon                                     10                  3                 12               0.06
Lesotho                                      7                 -                   7                  *
Madagascar                                  46                  t                 46               0.23
160 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Percentage
Borrowing                               Local            Foreign           Total            of total
countries                            procurement       procurement        amount         disbursementsb
Malawi                                   33                 t                33              0.17
Malaysia                                 67                12                79              0.40
Mali                                     42                 3                45              0.23
Mauritania                                23               -                 23              0.12
Mauritius                                  6                2                 8                 *
Mexico                                  968                 6               974              4.93
Morocco                                  165                t               165              0.84
Mozambique                                84               -                 84              0.43
Nepal                                     25                t                25              0.13
Nicaragua                                 27               -                 27              0.14
Niger                                    49                  1               49              0.25
Nigeria                                  144                 1              144              0.73
Pakistan                                352                 3               355              1.80
Panama                                    11                4                14              0.07
Papua New Guinea                          35               -                 35              0.18
Paraguay                                  25                2                27              0.14
Peru                                      87                1                87              0.44
Philippines                              154                2               156              0.79
Poland                                   161               36               197              1.00
Romania                                  28                 6                33              0.17
Russia                                  406                22               428              2.16
Rwanda                                    15                t                15              0.07
Senegal                                  61                 6                67              0.34
Sierra Leone                               7                t                 7                 *
Slovak Republic                            3                1                 5                 *
Slovenia                                   2                7                 9                 *
Sri Lanka                                61                 t                61              0.31
Tajikistan                                49                -                49              0.25
Tanzania                                 40                  1               41              0.21
Thailand                                  50                17               67              0.34
Togo                                      11                2                13              0.07
Trinidad andTobago                        12                 1               13              0.07
Tunisia                                  139                2               141              0.71
Turkey                                  211               142               352              1.78
Uganda                                    47                 1               48              0.24
Ukraine                                   28               11                38              0.19
Uruguay                                   37                t                38              0.19
Venezuela                                 20               10                31              0.15
Vietnam                                   90                4                93              0.47
Yemen, Republic of                        24               -                 24              0.12
Zambia                                    91                t                91              0.46
Zimbabwe                                  17                7                25              0.12
Other                                    20                11                36              0.83
Total                                 10,543              901            11,444             57.90
- Zero, t less than $0.5 million, less than 0.05 percent.
NorE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Countries eligible to borrow from IBRD and IDA are listed in Appendix 5. In addition, payments under disbursing loans to
Barbados, Cyprus and Korea, which are no longer eligible borrowing countries, are included. Amounts exclude disbursements for debt
reduction, net advance disbursements, and disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans.
b. Refers to the share of all IBRD and IDA payments forfiscal 1997 (excluding disbursements for debt reduction), which totaled $19,763
million.
APPENDIX SEVEN 161



IBRD AND IDA PAYMENTS TO SUPPLYING                                                      APPENDIX 8
COUNTRIES FOR FOREIGN PROCUREMENT
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD cumulative                    IDA cumulative
to June 30, 1997    IBRD fiscal 1997    to June 30,1997  IDA fiscal 1997
Supplying country                    Amount   %       Amount   %        Amount   %        Amount  %
Algeria                                42       *         4    0.10        13       *        1       *
Argentina                             834    0.74        18    0.50       111    0.26        5    0.26
Australia                           1,172    1.04       42    1.17        672    1.58      35    1.97
Austria                             1,652    1.47        68    1.88       244   0.57         9    0.51
Azerbaijan                              3       *        -        *        24   0.06         t
Bahamas, The                           95    0.08         1       *         8       *        t       *
Bahrain                                68    0.06        -        *       128   0.30         1    0.08
Bangladesh                             16       *         t       *        47   0.11         t       *
Belarus                                54       *        10    0.28         1       *        t       *
Belgium                             1,582    1.41       20    0.56      1,048   2.46       20    1.13
Brazil                              1,909    1.69       32    0.88        339   0.79        14    0.79
Bulgaria                               42       *         2    0.06        51   0.12         t       *
Burkina Faso                            1       *        -        *        10       *       2    0.08
Cameroon                                5       *         t       *        27   0.06        t        *
Canada                              2,609    2.32       113    3.13       781    1.83      42    2.35
Chile                                 382    0.34        4    0.11         36   0.08        t        *
China                               1,442    1.28       61    1.71      1,225   2.87       86    4.76
Colombia                              245    0.22         1       *        22   0.05        3    0.14
Costa Rica                             46       *        3    0.10         39   0.09        3    0.17
C6te d'Ivoire                          50       *         5    0.15       247   0.58        6    0.36
Cyprus                                 75    0.07        12    0.34        34   0.08         1       *
Czech Republic                         78    0.07        3    0.09          7       *       t        *
Denmark                               770    0.68       34    0.95        318   0.75        10    0.56
Djibouti                                t       *        -        *        25   0.06         t       *
Ecuador                               179    0.16        10    0.29        10       *        2    0.09
Egypt, Arab Republic of                60    0.05         2    0.06        37   0.09         1    0.08
Finland                               545    0.48       34    0.94        127   0.30        4    0.20
France                              8,008    7.11      317    8.79      4,584  10.75      289   16.08
Germany                            12,794   11.36      491   13.62      3,536   8.29       72    3.99
Greece                                211    0.19        3    0.08         80   0.19        5    0.29
Guinea                                  4       *       -                 40   0.09         t        *
Hungary                               306    0.27        10    0.28        27   0.06         1    0.06
India                                 436    0.39       29    0.82        848    1.99      59    3.25
Indonesia                             165    0.15         3    0.08       123   0.29         6    0.32
Iran, Islamic Republic of             145    0.13         1       *       196   0.46        2    0.09
Iraq                                  459    0.41        -        *        30   0.07       -         *
Ireland                               169    0.15         9    0.24       113   0.26        11    0.63
Israel                                260    0.23         7    0.19       109   0.26        8    0.44
Italy                               6,719    5.97      251    6.97      1,830   4.29       85    4.70
Japan                              14,590   12.96       275    7.64     4,221    9.90      97    5.39
Jordan                                 50       *         1       *       146   0.34         7    0.38
Kazakhstan                             75    0.07                 *        32   0.08         1    0.07
Kenya                                  28       *         t       *       279   0.65         7    0.36
Korea, Republic of                  1,685    1.50       65    1.81        829    1.95      82    4.57
Kuwait                                268    0.24        -        *       257   0.60        -        *
Lebanon                                96    0.09         2    0.06        24   0.06         1       *
Libya                                  98    0.09        -        *         7       *      -         *
Luxembourg                             72    0.06         2    0.06        36   0.08         t       *
Malaysia                              339    0.30         4    0.11       241    0.57        8    0.46
Mali                                    t       *        -        *        10       *        3    0.15
Mauritius                               I       *        -        *        20       *        2    0.13
Mexico                                567    0.50         5    0.14        99   0.23         1    0.06
Morocco                               176    0.16         t       *        52   0.12         t       *
Netherlands                         2,167    1.92        56    1.56     1,207   2.83       57    3.17
NewZealand                            184    0.16         6    0.16       105   0.25         2    0.11
Nigeria                               389    0.35        -        *       407   0.96         1       *
Norway                                466    0.41        87    2.42       148   0.35         8    0.44
Pakistan                              120    0.11         1       *       176   0.41         3    0.15
Panama                                393    0.35         2    0.07        51   0.12         1    0.06
162 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IBRD cumulative                    IDA cumulative
to June 30, 1997    IBRD fiscal 1997    to June 30, 1997    IDA fiscal 1997
Supplying country                    Amount   %       Amount   %        Amount   %        Amount  /o
Paraguay                              114    0.10         1       *                 *        1    0.08
Peru                                  128    0.11         t       *        20       *       t        *
Philippines                            72    0.06         t       *        83   0.19         1    0.07
Poland                                274    0.24       30    0.84         52   0.12        6    0.33
Portugal                               72    0.06        6    0.18       316   0.74        35    1.96
Qatar                                 123    0.11       -         *        17      * 7               *
Romania                               316    0.28         5    0.15        75   0.18         t       *
Russia                                722    0.64        11    0.32        79   0.19        10    0.56
SaudiArabia                           580    0.51        4    0.12        237   0.56       11    0.63
Senegal                                27                 t       *        96   0.23        6    0.34
Singapore                           1,091    0.97       41    1.14        698    1.64      17    0.92
Slovenia                               44       *        6    0.15          3       *        1    0.07
South Africa                          427    0.38        13    0.36       992   2.33       39    2.17
Spain                               1,372    1.22        58    1.60       297   0.70       15    0.83
Sudan                                   5       *         I       *        19       *       5    0.27
Swaziland                              34       *         1       *        31   0.07         1    0.06
Sweden                              1,662    1.48       25    0.69       467    1.09       15    0.84
Switzerland                         4,469    3.97       81    2.26      1,172   2.75       84    4.65
Tanzania                                7       *        -        *        29   0.07         1    0.06
Thailand                              147    0.13         2    0.06       372   0.87        15    0.83
Togo                                   31       *         t       *        27   0.06         2    0.10
Trinidad and Tobago                    21                 t       *        23   0.05         1       *
Tunisia                                91    0.08        -                 38   0.09         2    0.09
Turkey                                518    0.46       140    3.88       114   0.27        2    0.13
Turkmenistan                            5       *        -        *        51   0.12       -         *
Ukraine                               167    0.15         9    0.24        49   0.11        2    0.11
UnitedArab Emirates                   570    0.51         3    0.09       362   0.85        11    0.59
United Kingdom'                     8,436    7.49      236    6.55      5,615   13.17     227   12.61
United States                      22,016   19.55      621   17.24      4,182   9.81      166    9.23
Uruguay                               113    0.10         t       *         5       *        t
Venezuela                             519    0.46        10    0.29       201    0.47        t       *
Viet Nam                               46       *         t       *        54   0.13         3    0.19
Yemen, Republic of                      t       *        -        *       207   0.49         t       *
Yugoslavia (former)b                  857    0.76         t       *       174   0.41         3    0.15
Zambia                                 52       *        -        *       112   0.26        t        *
Zimbabwe                               34                 t       *       110   0.26         7    0.41
Other                               2,045    2.39       192    5.44       733   2.13       45    2.84
Total                             112,614     100    3,602      100    42,633    100    1,799      100
-Zero, t less than $0.5 million, less than 0.05 percent
NoTE: Amounts exclude disbursements for debt reduction, net advance disbursements, and disbursements under simplified procedures
for structural and sectoral adjustment loans. Amounts may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. United Kingdom includes Hong Kong
b. Figures represent payments to subcontractors in respect to contracts awarded to suppliers from Yugoslavia (fonner).
APPENDfX EIGHT 163



IBRD AND IDA PAYMENTS TO                                                                 APPENDIX 9
SUPPLYING COUNTRIES FOR FOREIGN PROCUREMENT,
BY DESCRIPTION OF GooDs, FISCAL YEAR 1997
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
Equipment     Civil works    Consultants    All other goods Total disbursements
Amount   %     Amount   %   Amount   %        Amount %       Amount  %t
Albania                                              1   0.13                                       I *  -  *  I  *
Algeria                                I      *     -        *     -        *      3   1.28        4   0.08
Argentina                            15   0.44       3   0.36       4   0.49      -               22   0.42
Armenia                               1       * I*                 -        *     -        *       1       *
Australia                            48   1.44       6   0.64      23   2.65      -        *      77   1.43
Austria                              63   1.89       9   1.01       3   0.37       1   0.37       77   1.42
Bahamas                                1      *     -        *      t       *     -        *       1       *
Bahrain                                       *      1   0.13       t       *     -        *       I       *
Belarus                               t       *     10   1.08      -        *     -        *      10   0.19
Belgium                              27    0.8       2   0.17      10   1.14       2   0.86       40   0.75
Brazil                               12   0.37      27   2.94       3   0.35       3   1.28       46   0.85
Bulgaria                              1       *     -        *      t       *      1   0.58        3       *
Burkina Faso                         -t                      *      t       *      1   0.55        2       *
Canada                               87   2.59       6    0.6      58   6.55       5   2.21      155   2.87
Chile                                 2       *      1   0.08       2   0.19       t   0.12        4   0.08
China                                49   1.46      91   9.85       7   0.76       t   0.13      147   2.72
Colombia                              2   0.06      -        *      1   0.11      -        *       3   0.06
Congo, Republic of                    2   0.07      -        *      1   0.06      -        *       3   0.05
Costa Rica                            3   0.09       t       *      4   0.41      -        *       7   0.12
C6te d'Ivoire                         1       *      5   0.53       1   0.08       5   2.19       12   0.22
Croatia                               I       *     _I                      *     _        *       1       *
Cyprus                                3    0.1       7   0.81       2   0.19       t   0.14       13   0.24
Czech Republic                        3    0.1      -        *      t       *     -        *       4   0.07
Denmark                              34   1.01       t       *     10   1.15       t       *      44   0.82
Dominica                              1       *              *     -        *     -                1       *
Ecuador                              -        *      t       *     12   1.34               *      12   0.22
Egypt, Arab Republic of               2   0.06       1   0.07       1   0.08       t       *       3   0.06
Estonia                                1      *      t       *                                     I *  -  *  I  *
Fiji                                   1      * I            *      t              t       *       1       *
Finland                              27    0.8       6   0.66       4   0.44       1   0.30       38   0.70
France                              408  12.16      89   9.57      96  10.95      13   5.39      606  11.22
Gabon                                 I       *              *     -        *              *       1       *
Georgia                               1              t              1   0.16      -                2       *
Germany                             386   11.5    129  13.97       34   3.91      13   5.36      562  10.41
Ghana                                 t       *      t       *      1   0.09       t       *       1 I
Greece                                2       *      4   0.47       2   0.18       t   0.17        8   0.15
Honduras                               1      *     -        *      t       *     -        *       1       *
Hungary                              11   0.32      -        *      t              t   0.07       11   0.21
Iceland                               t       *     -        *      1    0.1      -        *       1       *
India                                69   2.05      14   1.47       5   0.56       1   0.25       88   1.63
Indonesia                             9   0.26      -               t       *     -        *       9   0.16
Iran, Islamic Republic of             I       *     -        *      1   0.14      -        *       3       *
Ireland                               2   0.07      -        *     16   1.82       2   0.66       20   0.37
Israel                                8   0.24      -        *      7   0.76       t   0.06       15   0.28
Italy                               107   3.19    174  18.75       27   3.11      28  11.47      336   6.21
Japan                               326   9.71      30   3.29      12   1.41       3   1.45      372   6.89
Jordan                                7    0.2       t       *      1   0.06      -        *       7   0.14
Kazakhstan                             1      *     -        *      t       *     -        *       I       *
Kenya                                 3    0.1       t       *      3   0.32       t   0.15        7   0.12
Korea, Republic of                   68   2.02      78   8.38       t       *      2   0.75      147   2.73
Lebanon                               t       *      t              2   0.23      -        *       3       *
Luxembourg                            2   0.06      -        *      t       *      t   0.09        3       *
Malaysia                             10   0.31       1   0.08       1   0.13      -        *      12   0.23
Mali                                  t       *     -        *      t       *      2   1.02        3       *
Mauritius                             2   0.06      -        *      t       *              *       2       *
Mexico                                3   0.09       2   0.21       1   0.12      -        *       6   0.11
Netherlands                          43   1.28      32   3.49      35   3.95       3   1.37      113   2.10
New Zealand                            1      *     -        *      6   0.73      -        *       8   0.14
Niger                                 t       *     -        *      1   0.08      -        *        1      *
164 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Equipment     Civil works   Consultants    All other goods Total disbursements
Amount   %   Amouount   %   Aunt   %         Amount %      Amount  %
Nigeria                               t             t       *      t       *                      I 5  I  *
Norway                               86   2.57     -        *      9   1.01       t              95   1.76
Pakistan                              2   0.05      1   0.08       1    0.1      -       *        3   0.06
Panama                                3   0.09      t       *      t       *      t      *        4   0.07
Paraguay                             -       *      1   0.16       1    0.1      -       *        2
Peru                                                               1   0.07                       I 
Philippines                           t      *     -        *      1   0.17      -                2      *
Poland                               24   0.71     -        *      1   0.09      11   4.75       36   0.67
Portugal                             12   0.36     17   1.81      12   1.41       t   0.21       42   0.77
Romania                               5   0.14      1    0.1       t       *      _      *        6   0.10
Russia                               12   0.37     -                1   0.11     8   3.40       22   0.40
SaudiArabia                          15   0.45     -        *      t                     *       16   0.29
Senegal                               I      *      4   0.43       1   0.13       1   0.26        6   0.12
Singapore                            56   1.66      1   0.11       t   0.06       t   0.17       58   1.07
Slovak Republic                       I      i     _        *      t       *     -       *        I
Slovenia                              6   0.18      t       *      t      *      -       *        7   0.13
South Africa                         32   0.96      2   0.23       8   0.97       9   3.81       52   0.96
Spain                                45   1.35     15   1.59       7   0.83       5   2.23       73   1.34
Sudan                                -       *      5   0.49       1    0.1      -       *        5   0.10
Swaziland                             I                            1    0.1       t      *        2
Sweden                               26   0.78      3   0.27      10   1.15       1   0.33       40   0.73
Switzerland                         142   4.23      3   0.33      19   2.15       1   0.49      165   3.06
Tanzania                              I      *      t       *      t       *     -       *        I      *
Thailand                             16   0.48      t       *      1   0.15      -               17   0.32
Togo                                  1      *      -         *    t       *      1   0.45        2      *
Trinidad and Tobago                  -              t              t       *      1   0.25        1      *
Tunisia                               t      *     -        *      1   0.16       t               2      *
Turkey                              136   4.06      1   0.09       t              4   1.87      142   2.63
Uganda                                t             t              t   0.05      -                I
Ukraine                               2   0.07     -               t              8   3.41       11   0.20
United Arab Emirates                  8   0.24      6   0.65      -        *      t      *       14   0.26
United Kingdorna                    277   8.24     31   3.36    152  17.25        4   1.51      463   8.57
United States                       536  15.98     53   5.69    183  20.84       15   6.25      787  14.57
Venezuela                             3   0.09      4   0.44       3   0.37       t      *       10   0.19
Vietnam                               3    0.1     -        *      t       *     -       *        4   0.07
Yugoslavia (former)b                 -       *      3   0.28       t       *     _       *        3   0.06
Zimbabwe                              I      *      3   0.37       1   0.08       3   1.07        7   0.14
Other                                44   1.94     43   4.78      64   7.38      79  31.27      214   4.89
Total                             3,357    100    926    100    878    100    240    100    5,401    100
- Zero, t less than $0.5 million, less than 0.05 percent.
NOTE: Amounts exclude disbursements for debt reduction, net advance disbursements, and disbursements under simplified procedures
for srructural and sectoral adjustment loans. Details may not add to totals because of rounding
a. United Kingdom includes Hong Kong
b. Figures represent payments to subcontractors in respect to contracts awarded to suppliers from Yugoslavia (fonner).
APPENDIX NINE 165



IBRD AND IDA DISBURSEMENTSa FOR FOREIGN    APPENDIX 10
EXPENDITURES, BY DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
(FOR INVESTMENT LENDING), FISCAL YEARS 1995-97
1995                           1996                            1997
Item                   Countries Countries             Countries Countries             Countries Countries
not eligible eligible    Total  not eligible  eligible    Total  not eligible  eligible    Total
to borrow to borrow            to borrow  to borrow           to borrow to borrow
Millions of US dollars
Civil works               783      154       937         641       158       799         746      178       924
Consultants               689       77       766         800        79       879         784       80       864
Goods                   2,971      211    3,183        2,902       320    3,222        2,626      398    3,024
All other                 137        18      155         484        33       517         151        18      169
Total                   4,580      460    5,041        4,827       590    5,417        4,307      671    4,977
Percentb
Civil works                84       16        19           80       20        15          81        19       19
Consultants                90       10        15          91         9        16          91         9        17
Goods                      93        7        63          90        10        59          87        13       61
All other                  88        12        3           94         6       10          89        11         3
Total                      91         9      100           89       11       100          86        14      100
NOTE: Countries eligible to borrow from iBRD and IDA are listed in Appendix 5. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Amounts exclude disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements. Amounts also exclude disbursements for struc-
tural and sectoral adjustment loans, and hybrids (loans that support policy and institutional reforms in a specific sector by financing
both a policy component disbursed against imports and an investment component).
b. Percentages are based on the dollar amounts shown under the total disbursements section. These percentages show both the break-
down between countries eligible to borrow fromn the IBRD and/or IDA, and countries not eligible to borrow, for individual goods categories
and the share of each goods category compared with total disbursements.
166 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



ESTIMATESa OF IBRD AND IDA PAYMENTS                                                      APPENDIX 11
TO SUPPLYING COUNTRIES FOR FOREIGN
PROCUREMENT UNDER ADJUSTMENT LENDINGb, FISCAL YEAR 1997
(millions of US dollars)
Supplying countries                 Amount  Percent              Supplying countries        Amount  Percent
Algeria                                 7        0.2             Kuwait                          *        0.0
Argentina                              15        0.4             Latvia                         11        0.3
Asia (other)                           20        0.6              Macau                          *        0.0
Australia                              20        0.6              Madagascar                     *        0.0
Austria                                67        2.0              Malaysia                      14        0.4
Barbados                                *        0.0             Martinique                      *        0.0
Belgium                                72        2.2              Mauritius                      *        0.0
Belize                                  *        0.0              Mexico                        15        0.4
Bolivia                                 7        0.2             Moldova                        21        0.6
Brazil                                184        5.5             Morocco                         4        0.1
Cameroon                                *        0.0             Nepal                           *        0.0
Canada                                 18        0.5             Netherlands                    86        2.6
Chile                                  29        0.9             New Zealand                     3        0.1
China                                  86        2.6             Nicaragua                                0.0
Colombia                               10        0.3             Norway                         10        0.3
Costa Rica                              1        0.0             Oman                            8        0.3
Croatia                                47        1.4             Pakistan                        6        0.2
Cyprus                                  2        0.1              Panama                         *        0.0
Czech Republic                         40        1.2             Paraguay                        2        0.1
Denmark                                32        1.0             Peru                            2        0.1
Dominica                                *        0.0             Philippines                     *        0.0
Ecuador                                 5        0.1              Poland                        90        2.7
Egypt                                  10        0.3              Portugal                      10        0.3
Finland                                24        0.7             Romania                        22        0.7
France                                222        6.7              Singapore                     16        0.5
Germany                               560       16.8              Slovenia                      28        0.8
Greece                                 44        1.3              South Africa                  62        1.9
Guadeloupe                              *        0.0             Spain                          73        2.2
Guatemala                               3        0.1              Sweden                        34        1.0
Honduras                                *        0.0             Switzerland                   44         1.3
Hungary                                98        2.9             Thailand                       19        0.6
India                                  24        0.7             Trinidad                        2        0.1
Indonesia                              13        0.4             Tunisia                         *        0.0
Ireland                                 9        0.3             Turkey                        108        3.2
Israel                                 31        0.9             United Kingdom                105        3.1
Italy                                 348       10.4             United States                322         9.7
Jamaica                                 *        0.0              Uruguay                       10        0.3
Japan                                  53        1.6              Venezuela                      5        0.1
Jordan                                  2        0.1              Zimbabwe                       6        0.2
Korea, Republic of                     88        2.6
TOTAL                      3,333
*Amount below $1.0 million.
NoTE: Amounts exclude disbursements under investment lending. See Appendix 8 for payments to supplying countries for foreign
procurement under investment lending, fiscal 1997. Details may not add to total because of rounding.
a. Based on import data drawn from the latest information available on borrowers' trade statistics compiled by the United Nations
trade system COMTRADE
b. Under the simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans, approved by the Executive Board in fiscal 1996,
disbursements are no longer directly linked to procurement under adjustment loans.
APPENDIX ELEVEN 167



IBRD AND IDA CUMULATIVE LENDING                                                  APPENDIX 12
OPERATIONS, BY MAJOR PURPOSE AND REGION,
JUNE 30, 1997
(millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans to borrowers, by region'
Europe   Latin   Middle
East Asia         and   America  East and
and    South   Central  and the   North
Purposeb                           Afiica   Pacific    Asia    Asia  Caribbean  Africa   Total
Agriculture                       3,596.8  12,616.4 2,883.0 7,674.2  16,087.8 5,172.3 48,030.5
Education                          558.5   5,427.4   55.0 1,116.1  5,172.0 2,038.5 14,367.5
Electric power and other energy   1,881.9  15,013.6 10,537.6 6,067.0 12,422.3 2,222.8 48,145.2
Environment                         21.9   1,174.2  310.0  372.1  1,682.5  224.5  3,785.2
Finance                            717.2   5,145.1 3,440.2 4,862.8  8,893.5 2,220.4 25,279.2
Health, population, and nutrition  267.9    954.2   31.3 1,030.5  3,070.6  535.3  5,889.8
Industry                          1,289.1   3,728.2 3,420.7 3,738.4  5,721.3  1,916.3 19,814.0
Mining/Other extractive            216.5    503.0  774.0  840.8  1,109.3  131.7  3,575.3
Multisector                       2,275.2   4,004.3  680.0 10,100.2  9,281.9 2,890.4 29,232.0
Oil and gas                        381.2   1,646.9 3,359.7 2,595.1  1,397.5  711.2 10,091.6
Public-sector management           105.1    538.3  150.0 1,665.7  3,767.8  582.2  6,809.1
Social sector                       21.5      57.5     -  1,362.2  1,207.0   78.0  2,726.2
Telecommunications/informatics     557.4   1,859.7  747.5  545.3    530.3  691.5  4,931.7
Transportation                    3,006.4  14,555.0 3,342.6 6,495.2  14,757.8 2,963.7 45,120.7
Urban development                  928.2   4,274.1  294.1  1,308.5  5,906.6 1,916.7 14,628.2
Water supply and sanitation       1,251.9   1,794.4  605.4  1,520.6  5,144.7 2,520.6 12,837.6
Total                          17,076.7  73,292.3 30,631.1 51,294.7 96,152.9 26,816.1 295,263.7
168 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IDA credits to borrowers, by region
Europe   Latin   Middle            Total
East Asia         and    America  East and          IBRD
and    South   Central  and the   North            and
Purposeb                            Africa   Pacific    Asia    Asia  Caribbean  Africa    Total    IDA
Agriculture                        7,709.6   6,163.3 13,746.0   355.1    431.1   933.7 29,338.8  77,369.2
Education                          3,440.5   1,726.9 3,426.9    14.6    268.4  490.8  9,368.1  23,735.5
Electric power and other energy    2,228.6    693.8 3,666.1   181.8    291.4   252.9  7,314.6  55,459.8
Environment                         325.1     385.7   718.0      -      183.7     -   1,612.5   5,397.8
Finance                            2,253.2    333.8  797.0   199.4    185.1    74.8  3,843.3  29,122.5
Health, population, and nutrition  1,649.7   1,008.7 3,220.5    81.8    88.2   180.8  6,229.7  12,119.5
Industry                           1,262.4    151.2 1,829.4    26.8      19.4   84.4  3,373.6  23,187.5
Mining/Other extractive             178.5      51.0   82.0       -      66.7      -     378.2   3,953.5
Multisector                        6,457.3    439.7 3,676.2   581.1    654.6    80.0 11,888.9  41,120.9
Oil and gas                         518.2      66.0  520.7    42.4      94.2   101.0  1,342.5  11,434.1
Public-sector management           1,943.5    221.7  512.5   181.7    264.0    13.7  3,137.1   9,946.2
Social sector                       565.8    259.7   557.5    90.4    283.8   315.0  2,072.2   4,798.4
Telecommunications/informatics      488.1     101.8  884.2    18.0        -     83.0  1,575.1   6,506.8
Transportation                     5,974.2   1,533.0 3,294.6   108.5    475.7  301.9 11,687.9  56,808.5
Urban development                  1,633.8    548.4 1,657.0    78.3    117.2   114.5  4,149.2  18,777.4
Water supply and sanitation        1,300.6    582.8 1,971.2    72.6    111.1   213.4  4,251.7  17,089.3
Total                           37,929.1  14,267.5 40,559.8 2,032.5  3,534.6 3,239.9 101,563.3 396,826.9
- Zero.
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. No account is taken of cancellations subsequent to original commitment. iBRD loans to the iFc are excluded.
b. Operations have been classified by the major purpose they finance. Many projects include activity in more than one sector or subsector
APPENDIX TWELVE 169



IBRD AND IDA CUMULATIVE LENDING                                                          APPENDIX 13
OPERATIONS, BY BORROWER OR GUARANTOR,
JUNE 30, 1997
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans              IDA credits                Total
Borrower or guarantor                Number      Amount      Number    Amount         Number    Amount
Afghanistan                            -           -           20        230.1          20        230.1
Africa region                           1         15.0           1        45.5           2         60.5
Albania                                -           -           22        272.5          22        272.5
Algeria                                61      5,408.5         -            -           61      5,408.5
Angola                                 -           -            9        272.8           9        272.8
Argentina                              84    13,155.7          -            -           84    13,155.7
Armenia                                 1         12.0          9        268.2          10        280.2
Australia                               7       417.7          -            -            7        417.7
Austria                                 9        106.4         -            -            9        106.4
Azerbaijan                             -           -             6       199.7           6        199.7
Bahamas                                 5        42.8          -            -            5         42.8
Bangladesh                              1        46.1         150      7,473.7         151      7,519.8
Barbados                               11       103.2          -            -           11        103.2
Belarus                                 3       170.2          -            -            3        170.2
Belgium                                 4        76.0          -            -            4         76.0
Belize                                  8        71.8          -            -            8         71.8
Benin                                  -           -           44        650.1          44        650.1
Bhutan                                 -           -            6         28.2           6         28.2
Bolivia                                14       299.3          51      1,176.9          65      1,476.2
Bosnia and Herzegovina                 -           -           11        207.6          11        207.6
Botswana                               20       280.7           6         15.8          26        296.5
Brazil                                226    24,109.3          -            -          226    24,109.3
Bulgaria                               13       933.3          -            -           13        933.3
Burkina Faso                           -           1.9         47        840.7          47        842.6
Burundi                                 1         4.8          46        694.0          47        698.8
Cambodia                               -           -            7        237.1           7        237.1
Cameroon                               44      1,294.4         22        793.8          66      2,088.2
Cape Verde                             -           -            9         67.8           9         67.8
Caribbean region                        5        89.8           2         47.7           7        137.5
Central African Republic               -           -           24        403.5          24       403.5
Chad                                   -           -           34        576.0          34        576.0
Chile                                  57      3,425.4         -          19.0          57      3,444.4
China                                 117    19,108.9          67      9,230.7         184    28,339.6
Colombia                              145      8,616.4         -          19.5         145      8,635.9
Comoros                                -           -           14         81.8          14         81.8
Congo, Democratic Republic of           7       330.0          59      1,151.5          66      1,481.5
Congo, Republic of                     10       216.7          10        183.6          20       400.3
Costa Rica                             38       888.9                      5.5          38        894.4
C6te d'lvoire                          62      2,887.9         16      1,384.8          78      4,272.7
Croatia                                 9       518.5          -            -            9        518.5
Cyprus                                 30       418.8          -            -           30       418.8
Czech Republic                          2       326.0          -            -            2        326.0
Czechoslovakia                          1       450.0          -            -            1       450.0
Denmark                                 3        85.0          -            -            3         85.0
Djibouti                               -           -            9         58.1           9         58.1
Dominica                                1          3.1          3         14.1           4         17.1
Dominican Republic                     24       706.9           3         22.0          27        728.9
East African Community                 10       244.8          -            -           10        244.8
Eastern Africa region                  -           -             1        45.0           1         45.0
Ecuador                                61      2,271.6          5         36.9          66      2,308.5
170  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IBRD loans             IDA credits              Total
Borrower or guarantor              Number     Amount      Number   Amount        Number   Amount
Egypt                               58      4,002.5         34     1,657.0         92     5,659.5
El Salvador                         30       674.6           2        25.6         32       700.2
Equatorial Guinea                    -          -            9        45.0          9        45.0
Eritrea                              -          -            2        23.8          2        23.8
Estonia                               7       125.7         -           -           7       125.7
Ethiopia                            12        108.6         56     2,158.5         68     2,267.1
Fiji                                13        152.9         -           -          13       152.9
Finland                              18      316.8          -           -          18       316.8
France                                1      250.0          -          -            1       250.0
Gabon                                13      222.0          -          -           13       222.0
Gambia,The                           -          -           23       160.2         23       160.2
Georgia                              -          -           10       262.6         10       262.6
Ghana                                9       207.0          86     3,124.3         95     3,331.3
Greece                              17       490.8          -          -           17       490.8
Grenada                               1         3.8          1         8.8          2        12.7
Guatemala                           26       780.5          -          -           26       780.5
Guinea                               3         75.2        47        998.8         50     1,074.0
Guinea-Bissau                        -          -           20       223.2         20       223.2
Guyana                               12        80.0         15       292.3         27       372.3
Haiti                                 1         2.6         36       626.5         37       629.1
Honduras                            33       717.3          19       680.7         52     1,398.0
Hungary                             36      3,965.6         -           -          36     3,965.6
Iceland                              10        47.1         -          -           10        47.1
India                              164    24,360.1         219    24,432.9        383    48,793.0
Indonesia                          222    23,735.0          46       931.8        268    24,666.8
Iran, Islamic Republic of           39      2,058.1         -          -           39     2,058.1
Iraq                                 6        156.2         -          -            6       156.2
Ireland                              8        152.5         -          -            8       152.5
Israel                              11        284.5         -          -           11       284.5
Italy                                8       399.6          -          -            8       399.6
Jamaica                              62     1,326.0         -           -          62     1,326.0
Japan                               31        862.9         -           -          31       862.9
Jordan                              44      1,605.0         15        85.3         59     1,690.3
Kazakhstan                           13      958.6          -          -           13       958.6
Kenya                               46      1,200.0         72     2,813.3        118     4,013.3
Korea,Republicof                    110     8,599.0          6       110.8        116     8,709.8
Kyrgyzstan                           -          -           13       373.5         13       373.5
Lao People's Democratic Republic    -           -           24       511.5         24       511.5
Latvia                               9       248.4          -          -            9       248.4
Lebanon                              14       720.5         -          -           14       720.5
Lesotho                               1       110.0         24       264.2         25       374.2
Liberia                             21        156.0         14       114.5         35       270.5
Lithuania                           11       273.2          -          -           11       273.2
Luxembourg                            1        12.0         -          -            1        12.0
Macedonia, FYR                       4        106.0          4       193.8          8       299.8
Madagascar                            5       32.9          68     1,497.1         73     1,530.0
Malawi                               9        124.1         61     1,610.5         70     1,734.6
Malaysia                            83      3,446.6         -          -           83     3,446.6
Maldives                             -          -            6        47.3          6        47.3
Mali                                 -          1.9         57     1,180.0         57     1,181.9
(continued next page)
APPENDIX THIRTEEN 171



IBRD AND IDA CUMULATIVE LENDING                                                        APPENDIX 13
OPERATIONS, BY BORROWER OR GUARANTOR,
JUNE  30,  1997  (continued)
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans              IDA credits               Total
Borrower or guarantor               Number      Amount      Number    Amount       Number   Amount
Malta                                  1         7.5          -           -            1         7.5
Mauritania                             3       146.0         38        457.5         41        603.5
Mauritius                             29       400.7           4        20.2         33        420.9
Mexico                               160    27,292.5          -           -         160    27,292.5
Moldova                                8       247.8           1         9.0          9        256.8
Mongolia                              -           -            8       142.0          8        142.0
Morocco                              113     7,795.3           3        50.8        116      7,846.1
Mozambique                            -           -          29      1,600.0         29      1,600.0
Myanmnar                               3        33.4         30        804.0         33        837.4
Nepal                                 -           -          65      1,412.4         65      1,412.4
Netherlands                            8       244.0          -           -           8        244.0
New Zealand                            6       126.8          -           -           6        126.8
Nicaragua                             27       233.6         14        494.5         41        728.1
Niger                                 -           -          42        706.0         42        706.0
Nigeria                               84     6,248.2         14        902.9         98      7,151.1
Norway                                 6       145.0          -           -           6        145.0
Oman                                  l1       157.1         -            -          11        157.1
Pakistan                              82     6,014.2         103     4,820.3        185    10,834.5
Panama                                38     1,016.8          -           -          38      1,016.8
Papua New Guinea                      28       592.0          9        113.2         37        705.2
Paraguay                              35       767.9           6        45.5         41        813.4
Peru                                  78     4,543.1          -           -          78      4,543.1
Philippines                          141     9,807.3           5       294.2        146    10,101.5
Poland                               24      4,120.5         -            -          24      4,120.5
Portugal                             32      1,338.8         -            -          32      1,338.8
Romania                               50     4,725.3          -           -          50      4,725.3
Russia                               36      8,162.9          -           -          36      8,162.9
Rwanda                                -           -          46        744.4         46        744.4
Sao Tome and Principe                 -           -           8         58.9          8         58.9
Senegal                               19       164.9         65      1,352.0         84      1,516.9
Seychelles                             2        10.7          -           -           2         10.7
Sierra Leone                           4        18.7         21        403.7         25        422.4
Singapore                             14       181.3          -           -          14        181.3
Slovak Republic                        2       135.0          -           -           2        135.0
Slovenia                               3       153.2         -            -           3        153.2
Solomon Islands                       -           -           6         33.9          6         33.9
Somalia                               -           -          39        492.1         39        492.1
South Africa                          12       287.8         -            -          1 2       287.8
Spain                                 12       478.7          -           -          12        478.7
SriLanka                              12       210.7         68      2,114.9         80      2,325.6
St. Kitts and Nevis                    1         1.5         -           1.5          1          3.0
St. Lucia                              3         8.5         -          11.2          3         19.7
St. Vincent and the Grenadines         1         1.4           1         6.4          2          7.8
Sudan                                  8       166.0         48      1,352.9         56      1,518.9
Swaziland                             12       104.8           2         7.8         14        112.6
Syrian Arab Republic                  17       613.2           3        47.3         20        660.5
Tajikistan                            -           -            3        67.0          3         67.0
Tanzania                              18       318.2         88      3,016.3        106      3,334.5
Thailand                             111     5,899.1           6       125.1        117      6,024.2
172 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IBRD loans             IDA credits               Total
Borrower or guarantor              Number      Amount      Number    Amount       Number   Amount
Togo                                  1        20.0         37        622.3         38       642.3
Tonga                                -           -            2         5.0          2         5.0
Trinidad andTobago                   20       298.8          -           -          20       298.8
Tunisia                             103     4,007.7           5        74.6        108     4,082.3
Turkey                              118    12,639.4          10       178.5        128    12,817.9
Turkmenistan                          3        89.5          -           -           3        89.5
Uganda                                1         8.4         61      2,378.0         62      2,386.4
Ukraine                              12     2,005.4          -          -           12      2,005.4
Uruguay                              41      1,448.2         -          -           41      1,448.2
Uzbekistan                            4       252.0          -           -           4       252.0
Vanuatu                              -           -            4        15.4          4        15.4
Venezuela                            33     3,171.7          -           -          33      3,171.7
Vietnam                              -           -           15     1,650.9         15      1,650.9
Western Africa region                 1         6.1           3        52.5          4        58.6
Western Samoa                        -           -            8        46.6          8        46.6
Yemen, Republic of                   -           -          106     1,324.9        106      1,324.9
Yugoslavia                           90      6,114.7         -           -          90      6,114.7
Zambia                               28       679.1         40      1,757.9         68      2,437.0
Zimbabwe                             24       983.2           8       525.6         32      1,508.8
Othera                               14       329.4          4         15.3         18       344.7
Total                             4,064   295,263.9       2,780   101,563.4      6,844   396,827.4
- Zero
NoTE: Joint IBRD/IDA operations are counted only once, as IBRD operations. When more than one loan is made for a single project, the
operation is counted only once. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Represents IBRD loans and IDA credits made at a time when the authorities on Taiwan represented China in the World Bank (prior to
May 15, 1980).
APPENDIX THIRTEEN 173



PROJECTS APPROVED FOR IBRD AND IDA                                                         APPENDIX 14
ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL YEAR 1997,
BY REGION AND COUNTRY
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans               IDA credits                Total
Region and Country                   Number       Amount      Number    Amount         Number    Amount
Africa
Benin                                  -            -             1        40.0            1        40.0
Burkina Faso                           -            -            2         47.4           2         47.4
Cameroon                               -            -           -          25.2          -          25.2
Chad                                   -            -             1        25.0            1        25.0
Comoros                                -            -            2          8.6           2          8.6
C6te d'lvoire                          -            -             1        95.6           1         95.6
Djibouti                               -            -             1         6.5            1         6.5
Eritrea                                -            -             1         6.3            1         6.3
Gabon                                    1        10.0          -            -            1         10.0
Ghana                                  -            -            2         54.4           2         54.4
Guinea                                 -            -             1        25.0           1         25.0
Guinea-Bissau                          -            -             1        14.3           1         14.3
Kenya                                  -            -            4        231.9           4        231.9
Madagascar                              -           -             5       173.2            5       173.2
Malawi                                  -           -             1        15.8            1        15.8
Mali                                    -           -             3       101.3           3        101.3
Mauritania                             -            -            2         29.7           2         29.7
Mozambique                             -            -             1       100.0            1       100.0
Niger                                  -            -            3         90.0           3         90.0
Rwanda                                 -            -             1        50.0           1         50.0
Senegal                                -            -            4         39.0           4         39.0
Sierra Leone                           -            -           -           0.1          -           0.1
South Africa                             1        46.0          -            -            1         46.0
Tanzania                                -           -            4        196.4           4        196.4
Uganda                                 -            -             2       137.1           2        137.1
Zambia                                 -            -            3        155.6           3        155.6
Zimbabwe                               -            -             1        12.3            1        12.3
Total                                   2        56.0          47       1680.7          49       1,736.7
East Asia and Pacific
Cambodia                               -            -            2         57.4           2         57.4
China                                   9      2,490.0           2        325.0          11       2815.0
Indonesia                              11        914.6          -            -           11        914.6
Lao People's Democratic Republic       -            -             1        48.0            1        48.0
Mongolia                               -            -             2        12.0           2         12.0
Philippines                             4        281.4          -            -            4        281.4
Thailand                                3        388.4          -            -            3        388.4
Vietnam                                -            -            3        349.2           3        349.2
Total                                 27      4,074.4           10       791.6          37      4,866.0
South Asia
Bangladesh                             -            -            3        321.2           3        321.2
India                                   4        626.5           6        903.0          10       1529.5
Nepal                                  -             -            1        18.3            1         18.3
Pakistan                               -            -             2        84.8           2         84.8
Sri Lanka                              -            -            3         57.8           3         57.8
Total                                  4        626.5          15       1385.1          19      2,011.6
Europe and Central Asia
Armenia                                 -           -             1        31.8            1        31.8
Azerbaijan                              -           -            2         34.9           2         34.9
Bosnia and Herzegovina                  -           -            9        197.6           9        197.6
Bulgaria                                 3        94.3           -           -             3        94.3
174 THE WoRLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IBRD loans              IDA credits               Total
Region and Country                  Number     Amount      Number    Amount        Number   Amount
Croatia                                3       239.0         -           -            3         239
Georgia                               -           -           3         68.7          3         68.7
Hungary                                3       292.7         -            -           3        292.7
Kazakhstan                             4       141.8         -            -           4        141.8
Kyrgyz Republic                       -           -           2         60.0          2         60.0
Latvia                                 3        98.1         -            -           3         98.1
Lithuania                              4       112.7         -            -           4        112.7
Macedonia, FYR                         1        30.0          -         30.0          1         60.0
Moldova                                1        16.8           1         9.0          2         25.8
Poland                                 1        67.0          -           -           1         67.0
Romania                                5       625.0          -           -           5        625.0
Russia                                 8     1,715.6          -           -           8       1715.6
Slovenia                               1        49.3         -            -           1         49.3
Tajikistan                            -           -           2         62.0          2         62.0
Turkey                                 2        19.5          -           -           2         19.5
Turkmenistan                           2        64.5          -           -           2         64.5
Ukraine                                5       989.6          -           -           5        989.6
Uzbekistan                             1         5.0          -           -            1         5.0
Total                               47      4,560.9         20        493.9         67      5,054.8
Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina                             10     1,479.5          -           -          10       1479.5
Belize                                 1         7.0         -            -           1          7.0
Bolivia                               -           -           -          5.4         -           5.4
Brazil                                12       992.6         -            -          12        992.6
Colombia                               2        27.5         -            -           2         27.5
Dominican Republic                     1        75.0          -           -           1         75.0
Ecuador                                2        31.7         -            -           2         31.7
El Salvador                            1        24.0         -            -           1         24.0
Guatemala                              2        46.0         -            -           2         46.0
Guyana                                -           -          -           2.2         -           2.2
Haiti                                 -           -           2         33.5          2         33.5
Honduras                              -           -            1        54.1          1         54.1
Jamaica                                3        76.9          -           -           3         76.9
Mexico                                 5       960.0          -           -           5        960.0
Nicaragua                             -           -            1        30.0          1         30.0
Panama                                 2        50.5         -            -           2         50.5
Paraguay                               1        21.8         -            -           1         21.8
Peru                                   5       569.0          -           -           5        569.0
Uruguay                                1        76.0          -           -           1         76.0
Total                                48     4,437.5          4        125.2         52      4,562.7
Middle East and North Africa
Algeria                                1        89.0          -           -            1        89.0
Egypt, Arab Republic                  -           -            1        75.0          1         75.0
Jordan                                 2       140.0          -           -           2        140.0
Lebanon                               4        191.1         -            -           4        191.1
Morocco                                2       108.0          -           -           2        108.0
Tunisia                                4       241.5          -           -           4        241.5
Yemen, Republic of                    -           -           3         70.2          3         70.2
Total                                13       769.6          4        145.2         17        914.8
GrandTotal                         141     14524.9        100       4621.7        241    19,146.6
- Zero.
NoTE: Supplements are included in the amount but are not counted as separate lending operations. Joint IBRD/IDA operations are
counted only once, as /BRD operations.
APPENDIX FOURTEEN 175



PROJECTS APPROVED FOR IBRD AND IDA                                                     APPENDIX 1 5
ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL YEAR 1997,
BY SECTOR'
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD                 IDA                 Total
Agriculture
Algeria                                                  89.0                                      89.0
Argentina                                               125.0                   -                 125.0
Argentina                                                19.5                   -                  19.5
Azerbaijan                                                 -                  14.7                 14.7
Brazil                                                   90.0                  -                   90.0
Brazil                                                   24.0                  -                   24.0
Brazil                                                   39.0                   -                  39.0
Brazil                                                  100.0                   -                 100.0
Brazil                                                   30.0                   -                  30.0
Brazil                                                   60.0                   -                  60.0
Brazil                                                    9.6                  -                    9.6
Cambodia                                                   -                  27.0                 27.0
China                                                    30.0                150.0                180.0
China                                                   430.0                   -                430.0
China                                                   400.0                   _                400.0
China                                                   120.0                   -                 120.0
Comoros                                                    -                   1.6                  1.6
C6te d'Ivoire                                              -                  41.0                 41.0
Croatia                                                  42.0                   -                  42.0
Ecuador                                                  21.0                   -                  21.0
Georgia                                                    -                  15.0                 15.0
Ghana                                                                         30.0                 30.0
Haiti                                                      -                  21.5                 21.5
India                                                   175.0                150.0                325.0
India                                                      -                  28.0                 28.0
Kenya                                                      _                  39.7                 39.7
Lebanon                                                  31.0                  -                   31.0
Mali                                                       -                   4.2                  4.2
Mauritania                                                 -                  18.0                 18.0
Mexico                                                   15.0                  -                   15.0
Mexico                                                   40.0                   -                  40.0
Pakistan                                                   -                  56.0                 56.0
Peru                                                     85.0                  -                   85.0
Peru                                                     51.0                   -                  51.0
Philippines                                              58.0                   -                  58.0
Philippines                                              50.0                   -                  50.0
Romania                                                 350.0                   -                 350.0
Senegal                                                    -                   1.8                  1.8
Tajikistan                                                 -                  50.0                 50.0
Tanzania                                                   -                  31.1                 31.1
Tanzania                                                   -                  26.3                 26.3
Tunisia                                                  26.5                   -                  26.5
Ukraine                                                 300.0                   -                 300.0
Yemen, Republic of                                         -                  30.0                 30.0
Total                                                2,810.6                735.9              3,546.5
Education
Burkina Faso                                               -                  26.0                 26.0
China                                                    10.0                 20.0                 30.0
China                                                      -                  85.0                 85.0
Comoros                                                                        7.0                  7.0
Egypt                                                      -                  75.0                 75.0
Guatemala                                                33.0                   -                  33.0
Guinea-Bissau                                              -                  14.3                 14.3
Indonesia                                               104.0                   -                 104.0
Indonesia                                                71.2                                      71.2
176  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IBRD                 IDA                 Total
Indonesia                                                98.0                  -                   98.0
Jamaica                                                  28.5                  -                   28.5
Kenya                                                      -                  27.8                 27.8
Moldova                                                  16.8                  -                   16.8
Morocco                                                  23.0                  -                   23.0
Philippines                                             113.4                  -                  113.4
Romania                                                  50.0                  -                   50.0
Russia                                                   71.0                  -                   71.0
Thailand                                                143.4                  -                  143.4
Total                                                  762.3                255.1              1,017.4
Electric power and other energy
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     -                  35.6                 35.6
China                                                   400.0                   -                400.0
China                                                   400.0                   -                400.0
Georgia                                                    -                  52.3                 52.3
Hungary                                                  60.0                   -                  60.0
Indonesia                                                20.0                  -                   20.0
Indonesia                                                66.4                  -                   66.4
Kenya                                                      -                 125.0                125.0
Lebanon                                                  65.0                  -                   65.0
Mali                                                       -                  17.1                 17.1
Mauritania                                                 -                  11.1                 11.1
Russia                                                   40.0                  -                   40.0
Senegal                                                    -                  10.5                 10.5
Sri Lanka                                                  -                  24.2                 24.2
Thailand                                                145.0                   -                 145.0
Thailand                                                100.0                  -                  100.0
Ukraine                                                 317.0                  -                  317.0
Total                                                 1613.4                275.8               1889.2
Enviromnent
Honduras                                                   -                  34.0                 34.0
India                                                      -                  50.0                 50.0
Kenya                                                      -                  12.8                 12.8
Madagascar                                                 -                  30.0                 30.0
Malawi                                                     -                  12.4                 12.4
Nicaragua                                                  -                  30.0                 30.0
Panama                                                   22.5                  -                   22.5
Senegal                                                    -                   5.2                  5.2
Sri Lanka                                                  -                  14.8                 14.8
Tanzania                                                   -                  10.1                 10.1
Uganda                                                     -                  12.1                 12.1
Zambia                                                     -                  12.8                 12.8
Total                                                    22.5                224.2                246.7
Finance
Bangladesh                                                 -                 105.0                105.0
Colombia                                                 15.0                  -                   15.0
Ghana                                                      -                  20.9                 20.9
Guyana                                                    -                    2.2                  2.2
Hungary                                                 225.0                  -                  225.0
Indonesia                                                16.4                  -                   16.4
Kyrgyz Republic                                            -                  16.0                 16.0
(continued next page)
APPENDIX FiFrEEN 177



PROJECTS APPROVED FOR IBRD AND IDA                                                     APPENDIX 15
ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL YEAR 1997,
BY  SECTOR a  (continued)
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD                 IDA                 Total
Mexico                                                   30.0                                      30.0
Mexico                                                  400.0                   -                 400.0
Mongolia                                                   -                  10.0                 10.0
Mongolia                                                   -                   2.0                  2.0
Peru                                                    183.0                   -                 183.0
Slovenia                                                 49.3                                      49.3
Tunisia                                                  75.0                   -                  75.0
Zambia                                                     -                  45.0                 45.0
Total                                                  993.7                201.1              1,194.8
Health, population and nutrition
Argentina                                               100.0                   -                 100.0
Argentina                                                15.0                   -                  15.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     -                  15.0                 15.0
Cambodia                                                   -                  30.4                 30.4
India                                                      -                 142.4                142.4
India                                                      -                 164.8                164.8
India                                                      -                 248.3                248.3
India                                                      -                  19.5                 19.5
Indonesia                                                28.5                   -                  28.5
Niger                                                      -                  40.0                 40.0
Paraguay                                                 21.8                   -                  21.8
Russia                                                 - 66.0                   -                  66.0
Senegal                                                    -                  14.9                 14.9
Sri Lanka                                                  -                  18.8                 18.8
Turkey                                                   14.5                   -                  14.5
Total                                                  245.8                694.1                939.9
Industry
Armenia                                                    -                  16.8                 16.8
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                        10.0                 10.0
Madagascar                                                 -                  23.8                 23.8
Philippines                                              60.0                   -                  60.0
Russia                                                   85.0                   -                  85.0
Total                                                  145.0                 50.5                195.5
Mining
Burkina Faso                                               -2.                                     21.4
Ukraine                                                 300.0                                     300.0
Total                                                  300.0                 21.4                321.4
Multisector
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     -                  90.0                 90.0
Bulgaria                                                 30.0                   -                  30.0
Bulgaria                                                 40.0                   -                  40.0
Chad                                                       -                  25.0                 25.0
Croatia                                                  95.0                                      95.0
Croatia                                                 102.0                   -                 102.0
Ghana                                                      -                   3.5                  3.5
Haiti                                                                         12.0                 12.0
Honduras                                                   -                  20.1                 20.1
Jordan                                                  120.0                   -                 120.0
178 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IBRD                IDA                 Total
Kenya                                                    -                 26.6                 26.6
Latvia                                                 60.0                  -                  60.0
Lithuania                                              80.0                  -                  80.0
Macedonia, FYR                                         30.0                30.0                 60.0
Madagascar                                               -                  70.0                70.0
Madagascar                                               -                  0.6                  0.6
Malawi                                                   -                  3.4                  3.4
Mauritania                                               -                  0.6                  0.6
Mozambique                                               -                100.0                100.0
Niger                                                    -                 30.0                 30.0
Peru                                                  100.0                  -                 100.0
Russia                                                600.0                  -                 600.0
Rwanda                                                   -                 50.0                 50.0
Sierra Leone                                             -                  0.1                  0.1
South Africa                                           46.0                  -                 46.0
Tanzania                                                 -                 125.0               125.0
Tanzania                                                 -                  3.9                  3.9
Uganda                                                   -                125.0                125.0
Ukraine                                                70.0                  -                  70.0
Zambia                                                   -                 90.0                 90.0
Zambia                                                   -                   7.8                 7.8
Total                                               1,373.0              813.6              2,186.6
Oil and gas
Azerbaijan                                               -                 20.2                 20.2
Georgia                                                  -                   1.4                 1.4
Kazakhstan                                            109.0                  -                 109.0
Turkey                                                  5.0                  -                   5.0
Total                                                114.0                 21.6               135.6
Public sector management
Argentina                                             300.0                  -                 300.0
Argentina                                              20.0                  -                  20.0
Bangladesh                                               -                  2.9                  2.9
Bolivia                                                  -                  5.4                  5.4
Brazil                                                125.0                  -                 125.0
Brazil                                                 45.0                  -                  45.0
Cameroon                                                 -                 25.2                 25.2
Colombia                                               12.5                  -                  12.5
Cote d'lvoire                                            -                 54.6                 54.6
Djibouti                                                 -                   6.5                 6.5
Ecuador                                                10.7                  -                  10.7
El Salvador                                            24.0                  -                  24.0
Gabon                                                  10.0                  -                  10.0
Guatemala                                              13.0                  -                  13.0
Hungary                                                 7.7                  -                   7.7
Jamaica                                                28.4                  -                  28.4
Kazakhstan                                             15.8                  -                  15.8
Kazakhstan                                             10.0                  -                  10.0
Kyrgyz Republic                                          -                 44.0                 44.0
Madagascar                                               -                  13.8                13.8
Moldova                                                  -                   9.0                 9.0
Morocco                                                85.0                  -                  85.0
Pakistan                                                 -                 28.8                 28.8
Russia                                                 22.6                  -                  22.6
Total                                                729.7                190.2               919.9
(continued next page)
APPENDIX FIFTEEN 179



PROJECTS APPROVED FOR IBRD AND IDA                                                     APPENDIX 15
ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL YEAR 1997,
BY  SECTOR  (continued)
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD                 IDA                 Total
Social sector
Argentina                                               200.0                   -                 200.0
Belize                                                    7.0                  -                    7.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     -                   7.5                  7.5
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                        10.0                 10.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     -                   7.0                  7.0
Bulgaria                                                 24.3                  -                   24.3
Jamaica                                                  20.0                   -                  20.0
Latvia                                                   18.1                  -                   18.1
Lithuania                                                 3.7                  -                    3.7
Panama                                                   28.0                  -                   28.0
Peru                                                    150.0                  -                  150.0
Romania                                                  50.0                  -                   50.0
Russia                                                  800.0                  -                 800.0
Tajikistan                                                 -                  12.0                 12.0
Ukraine                                                   2.6                  -                    2.6
Yemen, Republic of                                         -                  30.0                 30.0
Total                                                1,303.7                 66.5              1,370.2
Transportation
Argentina                                               300.0                   -                 300.0
Argentina                                               200.0                   -                 200.0
Armenia                                                    -                  15.0                 15.0
Bangladesh                                                 -                 133.0                133.0
Benin                                                      -                  40.0                 40.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     -                   7.5                  7.5
Brazil                                                  300.0                  -                 300.0
Brazil                                                   70.0                  -                   70.0
China                                                   300.0                  -                 300.0
China                                                   400.0                  -                 400.0
Dominican Republic                                       75.0                  -                   75.0
Eritrea                                                    -                   6.3                  6.3
India                                                   350.0                  -                 350.0
India                                                    51.5                  -                   51.5
India                                                    50.0                100.0                150.0
Indonesia                                               105.0                  -                  105.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic                           -                  48.0                 48.0
Latvia                                                   20.0                  -                   20.0
Lebanon                                                  42.0                  -                   42.0
Lithuania                                                19.0                  -                   19.0
Mexico                                                  475.0                   -                475.0
Poland                                                   67.0                  -                   67.0
Romania                                                 150.0                   -                 150.0
Senegal                                                    -                   6.6                  6.6
Turkmenistan                                             34.2                  -                   34.2
Uruguay                                                  76.0                  -                   76.0
Vietnam                                                    -                 195.6                195.6
Vietnam                                                    -                  55.0                 55.0
Total                                                3,084.7                607.0              3,691.7
Urban development
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     -                  15.0                 15.0
Brazil                                                  100.0                  -                  100.0
Indonesia                                               110.0                  -                  110.0
Indonesia                                               155.0                   -                 155.0
180 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



IBRD                IDA                 Total
Indonesia                                             140.1                  -                 140.1
Jordan                                                 20.0                  -                  20.0
Lithuania                                              10.0                  -                  10.0
Madagascar                                               -                 35.0                 35.0
Mali                                                     -                 80.0                 80.0
Niger                                                    -                 20.0                 20.0
Russia                                                 31.0                  -                  31.0
Tunisia                                                80.0                  -                  80.0
Zimbabwe                                                 -                  12.3                12.3
Total                                                646.1               162.3                808.4
Water supply and sanitation
Argentina                                             200.0                  -                 200.0
Bangladesh                                               -                 80.3                 80.3
China                                                    _                 70.0                 70.0
Guinea                                                   -                 25.0                 25.0
Kazakhstan                                              7.0                  -                   7.0
Lebanon                                                53.1                  -                  53.1
Nepal                                                    -                  18.3                18.3
Romania                                                25.0                  -                  25.0
Tunisia                                                60.0                  -                  60.0
Turkmenistan                                           30.3                  -                  30.3
Uzbekistan                                              5.0                  -                   5.0
Vietnam                                                  -                  98.6                98.6
Yemen, Republic of                                       -                  10.2                10.2
Total                                                380.4               302.4                682.8
Grand total                                       14,524.9             4,621.7            19,146.6
- Zero.
a. Many projects include activity in more than one sector or subsector
APPENDIX FiFrEEN  181



DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE COMMUNIQUES                                         APPENDIX 16
FISCAL YEAR 1997
COMMUNIQUE                                      HIPC Initiative through special ESAF operations,
including long maturity loans or grants.
The 53rd Meeting of the Development Committee was    5. Members supported the World Bank's proposed
held in Washington, D.C. on September 30, 1996,  US$500 million initial contribution and noted Presi-
under the chairmanship of Mohamed Kabbaj, Minis-    dent Wolfensohn's announced readiness to recom-
ter of Finance and Foreign Investment of Morocco.  mend to the Board of Executive Directors additional
James D. Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank,  contributions, provided future net income of the
Michel Camdessus, Managing Director of the Intemna-   Bank would so permit and that there is equitable
tional Monetary Fund, and Qazi Alimullah, Deputy    burden-sharing by creditors, and that these funds are
Chairman of the Planning Commission of Pakistan for    needed to meet the Bank's own share of the burden.
Finance and Economic Affairs and Chainnan of the  Members supported as well the enhanced assistance
Group of Twenty-Four, addressed the plenary session.    (including IDA grants) that the Bank intends to pro-
Observers from a number of international and    vide in selected cases when needed.
regional organizations also attended.            6. Given the significant share of debt owed by the
1. Resolving debt problems of the heavily-idebted  poorest and most indebted countries to bilateral
poor countries (HIPc). The Committee expressed its   creditors, Ministers welcomed the indication from
appreciation to the Bank and Fund for the       the Paris Club that it was ready to go beyond
progress made since its last meeting and endorsed    Naples Terms to provide debt reduction of up to 80
the Action Program for the HIPC Initiative. It urged    percent for countries qualifying for additional relief
the Bank and Fund, working closely with donors  within the HIPC Initiative and that its decisions will
and other creditors, to move swiftly to implement    be made on a case-by-case basis according to its
the Initiative.                                  usual rules, to help poor countries achieve an exit
2. Members reiterated their support for the Initia-   from unsustainable debt. They suggested that the
tive's basic objective-ensuring that HIPCs demon-  Paris Club, the international financial institutions
strating a track record of sustained strong policy  and all involved creditors coordinate their actions
performance are able to achieve overall external  to deliver needed debt relief consistent with the
debt sustainability, enabling them to exit from the  Initiative's basic principles.
rescheduling process and to strengthen their pov-  7. Ministers welcomed the readiness to participate
erty reduction programs. They recognized that the    in the Initiative indicated by several multilateral
HIPC Initiative commits the international financial  agencies and urged other multilaterals to define
community to additional action to reduce eligible    their participation as soon as possible. The Com-
countries' debt burdens to sustainable levels, where    mittee agreed that the proposed multilateral HIPC
full use of existing debt relief mechanisms is  Trust Fund, to be administered by IDA, would make
unlikely to be sufficient.                       an effective contribution to the success of the Ini-
3. Members agreed that coordinated action by all   tiative. Members expressed appreciation to those
creditors was critical to the Initiative's success. The    bilateral donors who had indicated at this early
assistance to be provided by each group of creditors   stage their intention to contribute to the Trust Fund
should be consistent with the guiding principles  and encouraged others to do so as well.
agreed at the Committee's April 1996 meeting and    8. Ministers requested the IMF and World Bank to
would be based on the need to a) deliver debt sus-    begin implementation of the Initiative for the first
tainability; b) share broadly and equitably the cost    potentially eligible countries before the end of
of the Initiative; and c) preserve the preferred cred-   1996 and to report back to the Committee at its
itor status of the multilateral financial institutions.    next meeting on progress achieved in implementing
Ministers stressed that the Initiative should be  the Initiative.
implemented flexibly, on a case-by-case basis, and  9. International Development Association (IDA).
with full participation by debtor governments.   Ministers reiterated their strong support for IDA and
4. Ministers also welcomed the commitment of    its central importance to the global effort to reduce
the IMF, reflected in the statement of the Interim  poverty; therefore, it is important that all donors
Committee on September 29,1996, to participate    ensure the success of IDA 1I1 by fully supporting
in the enhanced assistance to be provided under the    their commitments on time. The Committee wel-
182 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



comed the increased IBRD grant to IDA of US$600  the Group of Twenty-Four, and Richard H. Kaijuka,
million this year.                              Minister of Planning and Economic Development of
10. Ministers recognized that the IDA I I agreement    Uganda attended the plenary session. Observers from
reflects a significant reduction in donor contribu-  a number of international and regional organizations
tions from previous levels. They asked IDA manage-    also attended.
ment and donor representatives to work together in    1. Implementation of the Debt Initiative for Hipcs.
the ensuing months to.help ensure adequate and   The Committee welcomed the substantial
secure future funding for IDA.                  progress made since its last meeting in implement-
11. Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency    ing the HIPC Initiative: the Bank and the Fund
(MIGA). Ministers noted that MIGA's activities had  Executive Boards took a decision on Uganda that
grown appreciably with the expansion of foreign  would-subject to satisfactory assurances on the
private investment in developing countries. They  participation of other creditors and following a
welcomed the recent rapid expansion in demand   review of Uganda's further progress on adjustment
for MIGA services and recognized that as a result,  and reform-have an effect on its debt service of a
MIGA is quickly approaching the limits of its finan-    reduction in its multilateral and bilateral debt by
cial capacity. Ministers requested that the MIGA  about 20 percent, or about US$700 million by
management and Board of Directors address MIGA'S    April 1998. There was also preliminary agreement
resource constraints soon and report on this subject    on the eligibility of three other countries (Bolivia,
at the Committee's next meeting.                Burkina Faso, and C6te d'Ivoire), and the neces-
12. World Trade Organization (wro). The Commit-    sary analysis for several other countries was well
tee expressed its appreciation to wTo Director-  underway.
General Renato Ruggiero for his valuable briefing  2. Ministers reaffirmed the importance of imple-
on key issues likely to be addressed at the First wTO    menting the Initiative in accordance with the guid-
Ministerial Meeting in December. Ministers agreed    ing principles and the Program  of Action agreed
with Mr. Ruggiero on the importance of trade as a  upon by the Committee in 1996. Ministers stressed
formidable engine of economic growth for all    the importance of adequate interim financing by all
nations and on the opportunities and challenges  creditors. They welcomed the recent Bank and
offered by globalization. They requested the Bank  Fund decisions on implementing the Initiative that
and Fund to assist those countries not yet members    demonstrate that with determination and cose col-
of the wTo to join the organization and to assist all   laboration by all partners, governments that show
members, particularly the poorest, to become more    strong commitment to reform and economic and
fully integrated into the multilateral trading system.   social development can achieve a sustainable exter-
Ministers expressed their support for closer collab-    nal debt position.
oration between the wTo, the Fund and the Bank   3  Ministers expressed appreciation for the close
and offered the Director-General and the wTo best    working  elatonsip  among   the B o os
wishs fo a sccesful  iniseria Meeing.working relationships among the Bretton Woods
wishes for a successful Ministerial Meeting.
institutions, other multilaterals, the Paris Club, and
The 54th meeting of the Development Committee was    other bilateral creditors. They also expressed appre-
held in Washington, D.C. in the winter and addressed    ciation to the governments that have made volun-
administrative business matters only.          tary contributions to the HIPC Trust Fund and to
administrative business matters only.
those that have indicated their readiness to contrib-
COMMUNIQUE                                      ute to the IMF ESAF/HIPc Trust; they urged other gov-
ernments to do so as well.
The 55th meeting of the Development Committee was    4. MIGA. Ministers noted the progress made by
held in Washington, D.C. on April 29, 1997, under  MiGA's Board and Management in addressing MIGA's
the chairmanship of Mohamed Kabbaj, Minister of  resource constraints. The Committee expressed
Finance and Foreign Investment of Morocco. James D.    broad support for MIGA's continued growth in
Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank, Michel  response to expanding demand for its services. As
Camdessus, Managing Director of the International  MIGA is rapidly approaching the limits of its finan-
Monetary Fund, Antonio Casas Gonzalez, Governor    cial capacity, Ministers urged the MIGA Board,
of the Central Bank of Venezuela and Chairman of  together with other parties involved, to resolve in
APPENDIX SIXTEEN 183



an expeditious manner the remaining issues on how    accepted goals such as those focused on poverty
best to obtain adequate resources and report to the    reduction, human welfare, and the environment
Committee at its next meeting.                  help demonstrate development achievements and
5. Partnership for Capacity Building in Africa.  lessons learned. Ministers welcomed the recent
Africa's future economic and social progress will  endorsement by OECD donors of such goals.
depend heavily on today's investments in human  9. Ministers agreed that the primary beneficiaries
capital and institutional capabilities. Past efforts in    of development aid should be those poor coun-
capacity building have not had wide success in fos-   tries committed to economic growth and the
tering effective institutions and sustainable transfer   reduction of poverty through sound policies and
of skills, in part because they did not foster local  effective use of domestic and external resources.
ownership. Thus, the Committee welcomed the ini-   The Committee encouraged IDA and other multi-
tiative taken by African governments to identify  lateral agencies to strengthen further the role of
and address this fundamental requirement. The   policy performance in the allocation of their
Committee appreciated the high degree of African    resources, bearing in mind factors beyond the con-
ownership and African governments' commitment    trol of governments, while continuing to help
to take their own action on capacity building,   build the capacity of all countries to improve per-
which is reflected in this effort. Ministers encour-  formance. Bilateral donors were encouraged to
aged the World Bank to continue to provide strong    move further in this direction as well.
support for this African initiative and to help build    10. Ministers welcomed the IMF support for adjust-
support from others in the international commu-  ment and reform programs under the ESAF and
nity as the Partnership's program develops.      emphasized the importance of continuing ESAF
6. Strengthening Support for Development Coopera-    operations to assist low-income countries.
tion. Developing countries have made progress in  11. Ministers emphasized the great importance
reducing poverty in recent years, but in the poorest   they attach to successful implementation of the IDA
countries it remains pervasive and deep. Further  11 agreement. The Committee was encouraged by
advances depend primarily on domestic efforts, but   recently concluded agreements for several other
integration into the international trading system  multilateral development bank (MDB) replenish-
and access to adequate extemal resource flows are  ments and reiterated that continued strong support
also essential. Ministers stressed the central impor-    for MDBS by all shareholders, on a fair burden-shar-
tance of improving the enabling environment for  ing basis, is essential to preserve their multilateral
private investment; moreover, the need to ensure  character and to meet the key challenges of sustain-
adequate access to Official DevelopmentAssistance    able development.
(ODA), notwithstanding donors' increasing budget-    12. Strategic Compact. The Committee welcomed
ary pressures and competing demands, is a matter  the World Bank's Strategic Compact, which aims to
of great concem.                                improve the level and quality of front-line services
7. To strengthen support for development coop-    and strengthen overall development effectiveness
eration and help generate necessary ODA flows,  by enhancing project quality and by making the
Ministers agreed to redouble their efforts to   Bank more cost-effective, participatory, flexible,
ensure that aid resources are effectively mobi-  and responsive to client needs. Members invited
lized, delivered, and used.The Committee agreed    the World Bank Board to monitor closely the
that improved coordination and strengthened     implementation of the Strategic Compact and
partnerships among developing countries, the pri-   requested periodic reports on progress achieved.
vate sector, and bilateral and multilateral agencies    13. Facilitating Private Involvement in Infrastructure.
are essential to improving aid effectiveness.   Ministers welcomed the work underway in the
8. Ministers urged the World Bank to continue to    World Bank Group to promote private sector invest-
work closely with its partners on realistic and mon-   ment in infrastructure, and they asked the Bank
itorable development goals, adapted to specific  Group to prepare an action program on this subject
country conditions and with full ownership by the    for the Committee's next meeting, which would be
countries themselves. In this respect, generally  taking place in Hong Kong on September 22.
184 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Balance Sheet   186
Statement of Income    188
Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings    188
Statement of Changes in Cumulative Translation Adjustment   188
Statement of Cash Flows    189
Summary Statement of Loans    190
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power   192
Notes to Financial Statements   196
Report of Independent Accountants   217
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185



BALANCE SHEET
June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
1997       1996
Assets
Due from Banks
Unrestricted currencies                                                   $     26   $    27
Currencies subject to restrictions-Note A                                      615        612
641        639
Investments-Notes B and E
Trading                                                                     17,229      15,001
Held-to-maturity                                                             1,279       1,169
18,508     16,170
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements-Note B                               97       1,282
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of
Subscribed Capital                                                            1,902      1,765
Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings                        574         732
Other Receivables
Amounts receivable from currency swaps-Notes D and E                        29,031      18,010
Amounts receivable from investment securities traded                            29       2,365
Amounts receivable from covered forwards-Notes B and E                       4,571         204
Accrued income on loans                                                      1,932       2,127
Accrued interest on investments                                                143          92
35,706     22,798
Loans Outstanding
(see Summary Statement of Loans, Notes C and E)
Total loans                                                                157,381    164,766
Less undisbursed balance                                                    51,576      54,520
Loans outstanding                                                        105,805    110,246
Less accumulated provision for loan losses                                   3,210       3,340
Loans outstanding net of accumulated provision                           102,595    106,906
Other Assets
Unamortized issuance costs of borrowings                                       492        412
Miscellaneous-Notes Iand J                                                   1,430       1,300
1,922      1,712
Total assets                                                                $161,945   $152,004
186 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



1997       1996
Liabilities
Borrowings-Notes D and E
Short-term                                                                $  7,648   $  4,328
Medium- and long-term                                                       89,031      92,391
96,679     96,719
Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and
Payable For Cash Collateral Received-Note B                                    294       2,439
Amounts Payable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings                             4           4
Other Liabilities
Amounts payable for currency swaps-Notes D and E                            29,687      19,427
Amounts payable for investment securities purchased                            135       1,508
Amounts payable for covered forwards-Notes B and E                           4,694        202
Accrued charges on borrowings                                                2,167       2,352
Payable for Board of Governors-approved transfers-Note F                       201        205
Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities                                 856        848
37,740     24,542
Total liabilities                                                            134,717    123,704
Equity
Capital Stock (see Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power, Note A)
Authorized capital (1,558,478 shares-June 30,1997 and June 30, 1996)
Subscribed capital (1,512,211 shares-June 30, 1997; 1,497,325 shares-June 30,
1996)                                                                 182,426    180,630
Less uncalled portion of subscriptions                                   171,378    169,636
11,048     10,994
Deferred Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings                         (106)        136
Payments on Account of Pending Subscriptions-Note A                                7          15
Retained Earnings (see Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings, Note F)      16,194     16,099
Cumulative Translation Adjustment (see Statement of Changes in Cumulative
Translation Adjustment)                                                         85       1,056
Total equity                                                                  27,228      28,300
Total liabilities and equity                                                $161,945   $152,004
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 187



STATEMENT OF INCOME
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
1997       1996
Income
Income from loans-Note C
Interest                                                                     $7,122    $ 7,804
Commitment charges                                                               113        118
Income from investments-Note B
Trading
Interest                                                                      718        673
Net gains/(losses)
Realized                                                                    47          31
Unrealized                                                                  (43)       (83)
Held-to-maturity
Interest                                                                      103        100
Income from securities purchased under resale agreements-Note B                     53          66
Other income                                                                        12         11
Total income                                                                   8,125      8,720
Expenses
Borrowing expenses-Note D
Interest                                                                       5,827      6,455
Prepayment costs                                                                  16          9
Amortization of issuance and other borrowing costs                               109        106
Interest on securities sold under agreements to repurchase and payable for cash
collateral received-Note B                                                        44         67
Administrative expenses-Notes G, H, I and J                                        651        733
Provision for loan losses-Note C                                                    63         42
Other expenses                                                                      10           8
Total expenses                                                                 6,720      7,420
Operating Income                                                                    1,405      1,300
Less contributions to special programs-Note G                                         120        113
Net Income                                                                         $1,285    $ 1,187
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN RETAINED EARNINGS
For the fiscal years ended June 30,1997 and June 30,1996
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
1997         1996
Retained earnings at beginning of the fiscal year                              $16,099       $15,502
Board of Governors-approved transfers to-Note F
International Development Association                                           (600)         (250)
Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries                                    -           (100)
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank                                                (90)          (90)
Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina                                             -           (150)
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative Trust Fund                      (500)
Net income for the fiscal year                                                   1,285        1,187
Retained earnings at end of the fiscal year                                    $16,194       $16,099
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENT
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
1997          1996
Cumulative translation adjustment at beginning of the fiscal year               $1,056        $ 3,308
Translation adjustment for the fiscal year                                     (971)        (2,252)
Cumulative translation adjustment at end of the fiscal year                     $   85       $ 1,056
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
188 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
1997        1996
Cash flows from lending and investing activities
Loans
Disbursements                                                             $(14,009)  $(13,321)
Principal repayments                                                        10,710     11,494
Principal prepayments                                                        1,311        812
Investments: Held-to-maturity
Purchases                                                                   (8,911)    (5,417)
Maturities                                                                   8,895      5,422
Net cash used in lending and investing activities                      (2,004)    (1,0103
Cash flows from Board of Governors-approved transfers to
International Development Association                                           (599)      (250)
Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries                                    (1)        (86)
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for
Emergency Assistance for Rwanda                                                (91)      (179)
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative Trust Fund                      (500)         -
Net cash used in Board of Governors-approved transfers                 (1,191)      (5153
Cash flows from financing activities
Medium- and long-term borrowings
New issues                                                                  14,928      9,851
Retirements                                                                (14,137)   (10,330)
Net short-term borrowings                                                      3,277        340
Net currency swaps                                                              (266)      (649)
Net capital stock transactions                                                    71        111
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                     3,873       (677)
Cash flows from operating activities
Net income                                                                     1,285       1,187
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities
Depreciation and amortization                                                  541        399
Provision for loan losses                                                       63         42
Changes in other assets and liabilities
Decrease in accrued income on loans and investments                          18         176
Increase in miscellaneous assets                                           (153)        (80)
Decrease in accrued charges on borrowings                                   (49)       (214)
Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities        35         (18)
Net cash provided by operating activities                               1,740      1,492
Effect of exchange rate changes on unrestricted cash and liquid investments        (319)    (1,632)
Net increase (decrease) in unrestricted cash and liquid investments               2,099     (2,342)
Unrestricted cash and liquid investments at beginning of the fiscal year         14,730     17,072
Unrestricted cash and liquid investments at end of the fiscal year             $ 16,829   $ 14,730
Composed of
Investments held in trading portfolio                                        $ 17,229   $ 15,001
Unrestricted currencies                                                           26         27
Net (payable) receivable for investment securities traded/purchased             (106)       857
Net (payable) receivable from covered forwards                                  (123)          2
Net payable for securities purchased/sold under resale/repurchase agreements and
payable for cash collateral received                                          (197)    (1,157)
$ 16,829   $ 14,730
Supplemental disclosure
Increase (decrease) in ending balances resulting from exchange rate fluctuations
Loans outstanding                                                         $ (6,429)  $(14,436)
Investments: Held-to-maturity                                                   94        (29)
Borrowings                                                                  (4,701)   (11,731)
Currency swaps                                                               (495)    (1,184)
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integralpart of these Statements.
IBRD FINANCLAL STATEMENTS 189



SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Loans     Undisbursed                Percentage
approved     balance of                 of total
Total      but not yet   effective     Loans       loans
Borrower or guarantor                           loans       effective'    loanS2     outstanding   outstanding
Algeria                                     $  2,624        $  89      $   720    $   1,815           1.72
Argentina                                       8,483        1,259        1,852        5,372          5.08
Armenia                                           11           -              1           10          0.01
Bahamas, The                                        8          -             -             8          0.01
Bangladesh                                        43           -             -            43          0.04
Barbados                                          32           -             18           14          0.01
Belarus                                          158           -             36          122          0.12
Belize                                            56            7            14           35          0.03
Bolivia                                           48           -             -            48          0.05
Bosnia and Herzegovina                           579                         -           579          0.55
Botswana                                          58                         -            58          0.05
Brazil                                          9,529         943         2,691        5,895          5.57
Bulgaria                                         768           40           263          465          0.44
Cameroon                                         475           -              8          467          0.44
Chile                                           1,434          -            404        1,030          0.97
China                                          16,765        2,181        6,647        7,937          7.50
Colombia                                        2,813           15          819        1,979          1.87
Congo, Democratic Republic of                     84           -             -            84          0.08
Congo, Republic of                                77           -              1           76          0.07
Costa Rica                                       287           -             62          225          0.21
C6te d'Ivoire                                   1,191          -              2        1,189          1.12
Croatia                                          544          135           185          224          0.21
Cyprus                                            89           -             27           62          0.06
Czech Republic                                   519                        101          418          0.40
Dominica                                           4           -              4
Dominican Republic                               376           112           37          227          0.21
Ecuador                                         1,255          21           322          912          0.86
Egypt, Arab Republic of                         1,257           20          262          975          0.92
El Salvador                                      473           -            191          282          0.27
Estonia                                          117           -             50           67          0.06
Fiji                                              45           -             11           34          0.03
Gabon                                            113            10           18           85          0.08
Ghana                                             35           -             -            35          0.03
Grenada                                            4           -              4                        -
Guatemala                                        274           46            32          196          0.19
Guyana                                            23           -             -            23          0.02
Honduras                                         311           -             -           311          0.29
Hungary                                         2,172          60           604        1,508          1.43
India                                          12,560         575         3,102        8,883          8.40
Indonesia                                      15,269         284         4,444       10,541          9.96
Iran, Islamic Republic of                        795           -            384          411          0.39
Iraq                                              44           -             -            44          0.04
Jamaica                                          656           -            179          477          0.45
Jordan                                           940           -            168          772          0.73
Kazakhstan                                       917            17          412          488          0.46
Kenya                                            257           -             -           257          0.24
Korea, Republic of                              2,083          -            434         1,649         1.56
Latvia                                           233           38            89          106          0.10
Lebanon                                          597           53           407          137          0.13
Lesotho                                           87           -             29           58          0.05
Liberia                                          141           -             -           141          0.13
Lithuania                                        267             4          156          107          0.10
Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of           111           -             38           73          0.07
Madagascar                                         4           -             -             4             *
Malawi                                            39           -             -            39          0.04
Malaysia                                         947           -            126          821          0.78
Mauritania                                         7           -             -             7          0.01
Mauritius                                         182          -             61          121          0.11
Mexico                                         15,341         960         2,669       11,712         11.07
190  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Loans     Undisbursed                Percentage
approved    balance of                 of total
Total     but not yet   effective     Loans        loans
Borrower or guarantor                          loans       effectivel    loans2     outstanding   outstanding
Moldova                                    $    237        $  17      $    82    $    138           0.13
Morocco                                        4,488           90          881        3,517         3.32
Nicaragua                                         30          -             -            30         0.03
Nigeria                                        2,917          -            352        2,565         2.42
Oman                                              16          -             -            16         0.02
Pakistan                                       3.958          -          1,019        2,939         2.78
Panama                                           368          50            98         220          0.21
Papua New Guinea                                 353          -             70          283         0.27
Paraguay                                         369          -           233           136         0.13
Peru                                           2.756          -            876        1,880         1.78
Philippines                                    5,653         230         1,009        4,414         4.17
Poland                                         2,830          -            678        2,152         2.03
Portugal                                          18          -              2           16         0.02
Romania                                        2,467         548           839        1,080         1.02
Russian Federation                             7,778         316         3,787        3,675         3.47
St. Kitts and Nevis                                3          -              2            1            *
St. Lucia                                         10          -              6            4            *
St. Vincent and the Grenadines                     3          -              2            *            *
Senegal                                           18          -            -             18         0.02
Seychelles                                         6          -              2            4            *
Sierra Leone                                       2          -            -              2            *
Slovak Republic                                 270           -             28         242          0.23
Slovenia                                         212          43            27          142         0.13
South Africa                                      46          46            -
Sri Lanka                                         35          -                          35         0.03
Sudan                                              6          -            -              6         0.01
Swaziland                                         37          -             25           12         0.01
Syrian Arab Republic                             360          -            -           360          0.34
Tanzania                                          45          -             -            45         0.04
Thailand                                       2,495         288           705        1,502         1.42
Trinidad and Tobago                              158          -             81           77         0.07
Tunisia                                        2,273          162          567        1,544         1.46
Turkey                                         5,100           15        1,218        3,867         3.65
Turkmenistan                                      89           65           20            4            *
Ukraine                                        1,937           88         845         1,004         0.95
Uruguay                                          717         201            88         428          0.40
Uzbekistan                                       230          -             79          151         0.14
Venezuela                                      1,998          -            691        1,307         1.24
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of
(Serbia/Montenegro)3                           1,146          -            -          1,146         1.08
Zambia                                            78          -             -            78         0.07
Zimbabwe                                         622          -            122          500         0.47
Subtotal5                                    156.744        9,027       42,519      105,198        99.42
Caribbean Development Bank4                      35           -            27             8         0.01
International Finance Corporation                602           -             3         599          0.57
Total-June 30, 19975                       $157,381        $9,027      $42,549    $105,805        100.00
Total-June 30, 1996                         $164,766       $9,500      $45,020    $110,246
' Indicates amounts less than $0.5 million or less than 0.005 percent.
NOTES
1. Loans totaling $6,417 million ($5,170 million-June 30, 1996) have been approved by IBRD, but the related agreements have not
been signed. Loan agreements totaling $2,610 million ($4,330 million-June 30, 1996) have been signed, but the loans do not become
effective and disbursements thereunder do not start until the borrowers and guarantors, if any, take certain actions and furnish certain
documents to IBRD.
2. Ofthe undisbursed balance, IBRD has entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse $1,937 million ($2,258 million-June 30, 1996).
3. See Notes to Financial Statements-Notes A and C
4. These loans are for the benefit of The Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and territories of the
United Kingdom (Associated States and Dependencies) in the Caribbean Region, who are severally liable as guarantors to the extent of
subloans made in their territories.
5. May differ from the sum of individual figures shown due to rounding
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integralpart of these Statements.                    IBRD FINANC[AL STATEMENTS  191



STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TO
CAPITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
Subscriptions                     Voting power
Amounts    Numnber  Percentage
Percentage    Total    Amounts  subject   of        of
Member                           Shares   of total   amounts   paid in'  to call1  votes    total
Afghanistan                       300      0.02  $  36.2   $ 3.6 $  32.6           550      0.04
Albania                           830      0.05     100.1      3.6     96.5       1,080     0.07
Algeria                          9,252     0.61   1,116.1     67.1  1,049.0       9,502     0.61
Angola                           2,676     0.18     322.8     17.5    305.4       2,926     0.19
Antigua and Barbuda               520      0.03      62.7      1.3     61.5        770      0.05
Argentina                       17,911     1.18   2,160.7    132.2  2,028.4      18,161     1.17
Armenia                          1,139     0.08     137.4      5.9    131.5       1,389     0.09
Australia                       24,464     1.62   2,951.2    181.8  2,769.5      24,714     1.59
Austria                         11,063     0.73   1,334.6     80.7  1,253.9      11,313     0.73
Azerbaijan                       1,646     0.11     198.6      9.7    188.8       1,896     0.12
Bahamas,The                      1,071     0.07     129.2      5.4    123.8       1,321     0.08
Bahrain                          1,103     0.07     133.1      5.7    127.4       1,353     0.09
Bangladesh                       4,854     0.32     585.6    33.9    551.6        5,104     0.33
Barbados                          948      0.06     114.4      4.5    109.9       1,198     0.08
Belarus                          3,323     0.22     400.9     22.3    378.5       3,573     0.23
Belgium                         28,983     1.92   3,496.4    215.8  3,280.6      29,233     1.88
Belize                            586      0.04      70.7      1.8     68.9        836      0.05
Benin                             868      0.06     104.7      3.9    100.8       1,118     0.07
Bhutan                            479      0.03      57.8      1.0     56.8        729      0.05
Bolivia                          1,785     0.12     215.3     10.8    204.5       2,035     0.13
Bosnia and Herzegovina            549      0.04      66.2      5.8     60.4        799      0.05
Botswana                          615      0.04      74.2      2.0     72.2        865      0.06
Brazil                          24,946     1.65   3,009.4    185.1  2,824.2      25,196     1.62
Brunei Darussalam                2,373     0.16     286.3     15.2    271.1       2,623     0.17
Bulgaria                         5,215     0.34     629.1     36.5    592.6       5,465     0.35
Burkina Faso                      868      0.06     104.7      3.9    100.8       1,118     0.07
Burundi                           716      0.05      86.4      3.0     83.4        966      0.06
Cambodia                          214      0.01      25.8      2.6     23.2        464      0.03
Cameroon                         1,527     0.10     184.2      9.0    175.2       1,777     0.11
Canada                         44,795      2.96   5,403.8    334.9  5,068.9      45,045     2.89
Cape Verde                        508      0.03      61.3      1.2     60.1        758      0.05
Central African Republic          862      0.06     104.0      3.9    100.1       1,112     0.07
Chad                              862      0.06     104.0      3.9    100.1       1,112     0.07
Chile                            6,931     0.46     836.1    49.6    786.6        7,181     0.46
China                           44,799     2.96   5,404.3    335.0  5,069.3      45,049     2.89
Colombia                         6,352     0.42     766.3     45.2    721.1       6,602     0.42
Comoros                           282      0.02      34.0      0.3     33.7        532      0.03
Congo, Democratic Republic of    2,643     0.17     318.8     25.4    293.5       2,893     0.19
Congo,Republicof                  927      0.06     111.8      4.3    107.5       1,177     0.08
Costa Rica                        233      0.02      28.1      1.9     26.2        483      0.03
C6te d'Ivoire                    2,516     0.17     303.5     16.4    287.1       2,766     0.18
Croatia                          2,293     0.15     276.6     17.3    259.3       2,543     0.16
Cyprus                           1,461     0.10     176.2      8.4    167.9       1,711     0.11
Czech Republic                   6,308     0.42     761.0     45.9    715.0       6,558     0.42
Denmark                         10,251     0.68   1,236.6    74.6  1,162.0       10,501     0.67
Djibouti                          559      0.04      67.4      1.6     65.9        809      0.05
Dominica                          504      0.03      60.8      1.1     59.7        754      0.05
Dominican Republic               2,092     0.14     252.4     13.1    239.3       2,342     0.15
Ecuador                          2,771     0.18     334.3     18.2    316.1       3,021     0.19
Egypt, Arab Republic of          7,108     0.47     857.5     50.9    806.6       7,358     0.47
El Salvador                       141      0.01      17.0      1.7     15.3        391      0.03
Equatorial Guinea                 715      0.05      86.3      2.7     83.5        965      0.06
Eritrea                           593      0.04      71.5      1.8     69.7        843      0.05
Estonia                           923      0.06     111.3      4.3    107.1       1,173     0.08
Ethiopia                          978      0.06     118.0      4.7    113.3       1,228     0.08
192 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Subscriptions                     Voting power
Amounts    Number  Percentage
Percentage    Total    Amounts  subject   of        of
Memnber                          Shares   of total   amounts   paid in'  to call1  votes    total
Fiji                              987      0.07  $  119.1  $   4.8 $  114.3       1,237     0.08
Finland                          8,560     0.57   1,032.6     61.9    970.8       8,810     0.57
France                          69,397     4.59   8,371.7    520.4  7,851.3      69,647     4.47
Gabon                             987      0.07     119.1      5.1    113.9       1,237     0.08
Gambia, The                       543      0.04      65.5      1.5     64.0        793      0.05
Georgia                          1,584     0.10     191.1      9.3    181.8       1,834     0.12
Germany                         72,399     4.79   8,733.9    542.9  8,190.9      72,649     4.67
Ghana                            1,525     0.10     184.0     12.7    171.2       1,775     0.11
Greece                           1,684     0.11     203.1     14.1    189.1       1,934     0.12
Grenada                           531      0.04      64.1      1.4     62.7        781      0.05
Guatemala                        2,001     0.13    241.4      12.4    229.0      2,251      0.14
Guinea                           1,292     0.09     155.9     7.1    148.8        1,542     0.10
Guinea-Bissau                     540      0.04      65.1      1.4     63.7        790      0.05
Guyana                           1,058     0.07     127.6      5.3    122.3       1,308     0.08
Haiti                            1,067     0.07     128.7      5.4    123.3       1,317     0.08
Honduras                          641      0.04      77.3      2.3     75.0        891      0.06
Hungary                          8,050     0.53     971.1     58.0    913.1       8,300     0.53
Iceland                          1,258     0.08     151.8      6.8    144.9       1,508     0.10
India                           44,795     2.96   5,403.8    333.7  5,070.1      45,045     2.89
Indonesia                       14,981     0.99   1,807.2    110.3  1,697.0      15,231     0.98
Iran, Islamic Republic of       23,686     1.57   2,857.4    175.8  2,681.5      23,936     1.54
Iraq                             2,808     0.19    338.7      27.1    311.6       3,058     0.20
Ireland                          5,271     0.35    635.9      37.1    598.8       5,521     0.35
Israel                           4,750     0.31     573.0     33.2    539.8       5,000     0.32
Italy                           44,795     2.96   5,403.8    334.8  5,069.0     45,045      2.89
Jamaica                          2,578     0.17     311.0     16.8    294.2       2,828     0.18
Japan                           93,770     6.20  11,311.9    703.5  10,608.5     94,020     6.04
Jordan                           1,388     0.09     167.4      7.8    159.6       1,638     0.11
Kazakhstan                       2,985     0.20     360.1     19.8    340.3       3,235     0.21
Kenya                            2,461     0.16     296.9     15.9    281.0       2,711     0.17
Kiribati                          465      0.03      56.1      0.9     55.2        715      0.05
Korea, Republic of               9,372     0.62   1,130.6     67.9  1,062.7       9,622     0.62
Kuwait                          13,280     0.88   1,602.0    97.4  1,504.6       13,530     0.87
Kyrgyz Republic                  1,107     0.07     133.5      5.7    127.9       1,357     0.09
Lao People's Democratic Republic  178      0.01      21.5      1.5     20.0        428      0.03
Latvia                           1,384     0.09     167.0      7.8    159.2       1,634     0.10
Lebanon                           340      0.02      41.0      1.1     39.9        590      0.04
Lesotho                           663      0.04      80.0      2.3     77.6        913      0.06
Liberia                           463      0.03      55.9      2.6     53.3        713      0.05
Libya                            7,840     0.52    945.8      57.0    888.8       8,090     0.52
Lithuania                        1,507     0.10     181.8      8.7    173.1       1,757     0.11
Luxembourg                       1,652     0.11     199.3      9.8    189.5       1,902     0.12
Macedonia,
formerYugoslavRepublicof         427      0.03      51.5      3.2     48.3        677      0.04
Madagascar                       1,422     0.09     171.5      8.1    163.5       1,672     0.11
Malawi                           1,094     0.07     132.0      5.6    126.4       1,344     0.09
Malaysia                         8,244     0.55    994.5      59.5    935.0       8,494     0.55
Maldives                          469      0.03      56.6      0.9     55.7        719      0.05
Mali                             1,162     0.08     140.2      6.1    134.1       1,412     0.09
Malta                            1,074     0.07     129.6      5.4    124.1       1,324     0.09
Marshall Islands                  469      0.03      56.6      0.9     55.7        719      0.05
Mauritania                        900      0.06     108.6      4.1    104.4       1,150     0.07
Mauritius                        1,242     0.08     149.8      6.7    143.1       1,492     0.10
Mexico                          18,804     1.24   2,268.4    139.0  2,129.4      19,054     1.22
Micronesia, Federated States of   479      0.03      57.8      1.0     56.8        729      0.05
Moldova                          1,368     0.09     165.0      7.6    157.4       1,618     0.10
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 193



STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TO
CAPITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER (continued)
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of Us. dollars
Subscriptions                     Voting power
Amounts    Number  Percentage
Percentage    Total    Amounts  subject    of       of
Member                           Shares   of total   amounts   paid in'  to call1  votes    total
Mongolia                           466      0.03  $   56.2  $   2.3 $   53.9        716      0.05
Morocco                          4,973      0.33    599.9      34.8    565.1       5,223     0.34
Mozambique                         930      0.06     112.2      4.8    107.4       1,180     0.08
Myanmar                          2,484      0.16    299.7      16.1    283.6       2,734     0.18
Namibia                          1,523      0.10     183.7      8.8    174.9       1,773     0.11
Nepal                              968      0.06    116.8      4.6    112.1        1,218     0.08
Netherlands                     35,503      2.35   4,282.9    264.8  4,018.1      35,753     2.30
New Zealand                      7,236      0.48    872.9      51.9    821.0       7,486     0.48
Nicaragua                          608     0.04      73.3       2.1     71.3        858      0.06
Niger                              852      0.06    102.8       3.8     99.0       1,102     0.07
Nigeria                         12,655      0.84   1,526.6     92.7  1,433.9      12,905     0.83
Norway                           9,982      0.66   1,204.2     72.6  1,131.6      10,232     0.66
Oman                             1,561     0.10     188.3      9.1    179.2        1,811     0.12
Pakistan                         9,339      0.62   1,126.6     67.8  1,058.9       9,589     0.62
Panama                             385      0.03     46.4       3.2     43.2        635      0.04
PapuaNewGuinea                   1,294      0.09     156.1      7.1    149.0       1,544     0.10
Paraguay                         1,229      0.08    148.3       6.6    141.6       1,479     0.09
Peru                             5,331     0.35     643.1      37.5    605.6       5,581     0.36
Philippines                      6,844     0.45     825.6     48.9    776.7        7,094     0.46
Poland                          10,908     0.72   1,315.9      79.6  1,236.3      11,158     0.72
Portugal                         5,460      0.36    658.7      38.5    620.2       5,710     0.37
Qatar                            1,096     0.07     132.2       9.0    123.3       1,346     0.09
Romania                          4,011      0.27    483.9      30.5    453.4       4,261     0.27
Russian Federation              44,795      2.96   5,403.8    333.9  5,070.0      45,045     2.89
Rwanda                           1,046      0.07     126.2      5.2    120.9       1,296     0.08
St. Kitts and Nevis                275     0.02      33.2      0.3      32.9        525      0.03
St. Lucia                          552     0.04      66.6       1.5     65.1        802      0.05
St. Vincent and the Grenadines     278     0.02      33.5       0.3     33.2        528      0.03
Sao Tome and Principe              495     0.03      59.7       1.1     58.6        745      0.05
Saudi Arabia                    44,795     2.96   5,403.8    335.0  5,068.9       45,045     2.89
Senegal                          2,072     0.14     250.0      13.0    237.0       2,322     0.15
Seychelles                         263      0.02     31.7       0.2     31.6        513      0.03
Sierra Leone                       718     0.05      86.6       3.0     83.6        968      0.06
Singapore                          320      0.02     38.6       3.9     34.7        570      0.04
Slovak Republic                  3,216     0.21     388.0      23.0    365.0       3,466     0.22
Slovenia                         1,261     0.08     152.1       9.5    142.6       1,511     0.10
Solomon Islands                    513     0.03      61.9       1.2     60.7        763      0.05
Somalia                            552     0.04      66.6       3.3     63.3        802      0.05
South Africa                    13,462     0.89   1,624.0      98.8  1,525.2      13,712     0.88
Spain                           23,686      1.57   2,857.4    175.6  2,681.7      23,936     1.54
Sri Lanka                        3,817     0.25     460.5     26.1    434.3        4,067     0.26
Sudan                              850     0.06     102.5       7.2     95.3       1,100     0.07
Suriname                           412     0.03      49.7      2.0      47.7        662      0.04
Swaziland                          440     0.03      53.1       2.0     51.1        690      0.04
Sweden                          14,974     0.99   1,806.4    110.2  1,696.2       15,224     0.98
Switzerland                     26,606      1.76   3,209.6    197.2  3,012.4      26,856     1.72
Syrian Arab Republic             2,202     0.15     265.6      14.0    251.7       2,452     0.16
Tajikistan                       1,060      0.07    127.9       5.3    122.5       1,310     0.08
Tanzania                         1,295      0.09     156.2     10.0    146.2       1,545     0.10
Thailand                         6,349      0.42    765.9      45.2    720.7       6,599     0.42
Togo                             1,105      0.07     133.3      5.7    127.6       1,355     0.09
Tonga                              494      0.03     59.6       1.1     58.5        744      0.05
TrinidadandTobago                2,664      0.18    321.4      17.6    303.7       2,914     0.19
Tunisia                            719      0.05     86.7       5.7     81.1        969      0.06
Turkey                           7,379      0.49    890.2      52.9    837.2       7,629     0.49
194  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Subscriptions                      Voting power
Amounts     Number  Percentage
Percentage    Total    Amounts  subject     of       of
Member                            Shares    of total   amounts   paid in'  to call'  votes    total
Turkmenistan                       526      0.03  $   63.5  $   2.9 $   60.5          776      0.05
Uganda                             617      0.04      74.4      4.4      70.1         867      0.06
Ukraine                          10,908     0.72   1,315.9      79.3   1,236.6     11,158      0.72
UnitedArab Emirates               2,385     0.16     287.7     22.6    265.1        2,635      0.17
United Kingdom                   69,397     4.59   8,371.7    539.5  7,832.2       69,647     4.47
United States                  264,969     17.52  31,964.5  1,998.4  29,966.2     265,219     17.03
Uruguay                           2,812     0.19     339.2      18.6    320.7       3,062      0.20
Uzbekistan                        2,493     0.16     300.7     16.1    284.7        2,743      0.18
Vanuatu                            586      0.04      70.7       1.8     68.9         836      0.05
Venezuela                        20,361     1.35   2,456.2    150.8  2,305.5       20,611      1.32
Vietnam                            968      0.06     116.8      8.1    108.7        1,218      0.08
Western Samoa                      531      0.04      64.1       1.4     62.7         781      0.05
Yemen, Republic of                2,212     0.15     266.8      14.0    252.8       2,462      0.16
Zambia                            2,810     0.19     339.0     20.0    319.0        3,060      0.20
Zimbabwe                          3,325     0.22     401.1     22.4    378.7        3,575      0.23
Total-June30, 19972           1,512,211    100.00  $182,426  $11,048 $171,378    1,557,211    100.00
Total-June 30, 1996           1,497,325   100.00  $180,630  $10,994 $169,636    1,542,325
NOTES
1. See Notes to Financial Statements-Note A.
2. May differ from the sum of individual figures dute to rounding.
The Notes to Financial Statemnents are an integral part of these Statements.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 195



NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS               standard does not apply to financial instruments. The
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-   adoption of this standard had no material impact on
opment (IBRD) is an international organization which  rsRD's financial statements.
commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose    During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1997, IBRD
of IBRD is to promote economic development in its  adopted International Accounting Standards (IAS) No.
member countries, primarily by providing loans and  32 entitled "Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Pre-
related technical assistance for specific projects and for   sentation." IAS No. 32 specifies the disclosure of certain
programs of economic reform in developing member    information on various risk elements associated with
countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by    financial instruments. These disclosures are contained
those of three affiliated organizations, the Intema-  in Notes B, C, and D.
tional Development Association (IDA), the Interna-
tional Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral    In 1996 the Financial Accounting Standards Board
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these  issued the Statement of Financial Accounting Stan-
organizations is legally and financially independent  dards No. 125, entitled 'Accounting for Transfers of
from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD  Assets and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extin-
is not liable for their respective obligations. IDA'S pur-    guishments of Liabilities," which requires new
pose is to promote economic development in the less    accounting and reporting standards for transfers of
developed areas of the world included in IDA'S mem-  assets, securitizations, collateral, and servicing of
bership by providing financing on concessionary terms,   receivables and other financial assets, and extinguish-
IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive    ments of liabilities. While the standard is effective for
private enterprises in its member countries through  fiscal year 1997, the provisions which would have an
loans and equity investments in such enterprises with-   impact on IBRD relating to transfers involving repur-
out a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to  chase/resale agreements, collateral agreements and
encourage the flow of investments for productive pur-   securities lending for transfers of financial assets will
poses among member countries and, in particular, to  not be effective until the beginning of 1998. The
developing member countries by providing guarantees    adoption of this standard is expected to have no mate-
against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in    rial impact on IBRD'S financial statements.
its developing member countries.                   Certain reclassifications of the prior year's information
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING                  have been made to conform to the current period's
AND RELATED POLICIES                               presentation.
IBRD's financial statements are prepared in conformity  Translation of Currencies: IBRD'S financial statements
with the accounting principles generally accepted in  are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the
the United States and with International Accounting  purpose of summarizing IBRD'S financial position and
Standards.                                         the results of its operations for the convenience of its
mnembers and other interested parties.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires   IBRD is an international organization which conducts its
management to make estimates and assumptions that  operations in the currencies of all of its members.
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and    IBRD's resources are derived from its capital, borrow-
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date   ings, and accumulated earnings in those various cur-
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of   rencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at
revenue and expenses during the reporting period.  minimizing exchange-rate risk in a multicurrency envi-
Actual results could differ from these estimates. Signif-   ronment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any
icant judgments have been used in the computation of    one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same cur-
estimated and fair values of loans and borrowings, the  rency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, pri-
adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan     marily by holding or lending the proceeds of its
Losses, determination of net periodic pension cost, and    borrowings (after swaps) in the same currencies in
the present value of obligations under the Staff Retire-    which they are borrowed. In addition, IBRD periodi-
ment and Retired Staff Benefits Plans.             cally undertakes currency conversions to more closely
match the currencies underlying its Retained Earnings
During the first quarter of fiscal year 1997, IBRD  with those of the outstanding loans.
adopted prospectively the Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, entitled 'Accounting  Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for    rates at the end of the period. Income and expenses
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed of," which pre-   are translated at the market exchange rates on the
scribes that long-lived assets and certain intangibles be    dates on which they are recognized or at average mar-
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes    ket exchange rates in effect during each month. Trans-
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount  lation adjustments are charged or credited to Equity.
of an asset may not be recoverable. This accounting
196 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agree-  Trading portfolio, comprising obligations of the United
ment, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of    States Government, its agencies, and other official
"U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on  entities. The allocation of such commissions to the
July 1, 1944" (1944 dollars). Following the abolition  Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect
of gold as a common denominator of the monetary      to subsequent loans and no further additions are being
system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law  made to it.
defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of  The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior
gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars
into current dollars or into any other currency disap-  fiscal years that in the judgment of the Executive
peared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided,    Directors should be retained in RD's operatons.
until such time as the relevant provisions of the Arti-  Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years
cles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S.  which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is
dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,  made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer
1944" in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of  for specified uses have been met.
Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special
Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International  Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the
Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S.    current fiscal year. Commencing in 1950, a portion or
dollars immediately before the introduction of the   all of the unallocated Net Income has been allocated
basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such    to the General Reserve. The Board of Governors, con-
value being $1.20635 for one SDR                     sisting of one Governor appointed by each member,
periodically approves transfers out of unallocated Net
Maintenance of Value:Article II, Section 9 of the    Income and Surplus, components of Retained Earn-
Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the    ings, after an assessment by the Executive Directors of
value, at the time of subscription, of such restricted  IBRD's reserve needs, to various entities for develop-
currencies (see Note A), requiring (1) the member to  ment purposes consistent with IBRD's Articles of
make additional payments to IBRD in the event that the    Agreement.
par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign
exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of  Loans:All of IBRD'S loans are made to or guaranteed by
IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territo-  members, except loans to iFc. The majority of IBRD's
ries and (2) IBRD to reimburse the member in the event   loans have repayment obligations in various currencies
that the par value of its currency is increased.     determined on the basis of a currency pooling system,
which is designed to equalize exchange-rate risks
Since currencies no longer have par values, mainte-  among borrowers. IBRD also offers single currency
nance of value amounts are determined by measuring    loans. Except for certain loans which were converted
the foreign exchange value of a member's currency    to the currency pooling system, loans negotiated prior
against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on  to July 1980 and all single currency loans are repayable
the 1974 SDR Members are required to make pay-       in the currencies disbursed.
ments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate signifi-
cantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore,  Incremental direct costs associated with originating
the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reim-   loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are
bursing members whose currencies appreciate signifi-    considered immaterial.
cantly in terms of the standard of value.            IBRD'S policy is to not reschedule interest or principal
The net maintenance of value amounts relating to     payments on its loans or participate in debt reschedul-
restricted currencies out on loan are included in    ing agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional
Deferred Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency       cases, however, such as when implementation of a
Holdings and shown as a component of Equity since    financed project has been delayed, the loan amortiza-
maintenance of value becomes effective only as such  tion schedule may be modified to avoid substantial
currencies are repaid to IBRD.                       repayments prior to project completion. In addition,
in the special case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, IBRD has
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allo-   refinanced/rescheduled, through three new IBRD con-
cated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, and    solidation loans, certain loans made to the former
Surplus) and unallocated Net Income.                 Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) for
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set  which Bosnia and Herzegovina has accepted liability.
aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles  IBRD'S special treatment in this case was based on the
of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets.  following criteria: the country (i) has emerged from a
These assets may be used only for the purpose of     current or former member of IBRD, (ii) is assuming
meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guar-    responsibility for a share of the debt of that member,
antees in the event of defaults on loans made, partici-    (iii) has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt
pated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve  that it assumes, because of a major armed conflict in
assets are included under Investments held in the    its territory involving extensive destruction of physical
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 197



assets, and (iv) can improve significantly its repayment    chase. Securities which management has the intention
capacity through refinancing/rescheduling, if appro-  and ability to hold until maturity are included in the
priate supporting measures are taken. At the balance  Held-to-maturity portfolio and reported at amortized
sheet dates no other country met these criteria.     cost. All other investment securities are held in a Trad-
ing portfolio and classified as an element of liquidity in
Delays in receiving loan payments result in present val  the Statement of Cash Flows due to their nature and
losses to IlRD since it does not charge fees or additional    lORD'S policies governing the level and use of such
interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These         . I
present value losses are equal to the difference between  caistments  heldmin   ities ad   rtfioare
th prsn vau of pamet fo ineetan.hre                  cial instruments held in IBRD'S Tracling portfolio are
the presentvlueofpymentsfr it  carried and reported at market value. Unrecognized
made according to the related loan's contractual terms  gains and losses for financial instruments held in the
and the present value of their expected future cash flows    Trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative
discounted at the loan's contractual interest rates. Such  instruments are used in liquidity management to take
present value losses are considered in the determination    advantage of profitable trading opportunities and as a
of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses. ..  
proxy for cash securities. These instruments include
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all   short-term, over-the-counter foreign exchange for-
loans made to or guaranteed by a member of rORD if   wards and exchange-traded futures and options on
principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any    fixed income instruments. These derivatives are car-
such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless    ried at market value. From time to time, IBRD enters
IBRD management determines that the overdue          into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of
amount will be collected in the immediate future. In  investment securities; these transactions are recorded
addition, if development credits made by IDA to a    at the time of commitment.
member government are placed in nonaccrual status,   Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and
all loans made to or guaranteed by that member gov-  Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements: Secu-
ernment will also be placed in nonaccrual status by  rities purchased under resale agreements and securities
lORD. On the date a member's loans are placed in non-    sold under repurchase agreements are treated as secu-
accrual status, unpaid interest and other charges    rities lending and borrowing transactions and are car-
accrued on loans outstanding to the member are   . . .                  .
deducted from the income of the current period.
Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are  Borrouings: To ensure funds are available for lending
included in income only to the extent that payments  and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide
have actually been received by lBRD. If collectibility  capital markets offering its securities to private and
risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of    governmental buyers. IBRD issues short-term and
arrears clearance or if IBRD refinances/reschedules non-    medium- and long-term debt instruments denomi-
accruing loans to a member so that no debt-service   nated in various currencies with both fixed and adjust-
payments remain overdue, the member's loans may      able interest rates. Borrowings are carried on the
not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even    balance sheet at their par value (face value) adjusted
though the member's eligibility for new loans may    for any unamortized premiums or discounts. Issuance
have been restored. The previously overdue interest  costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and
and other charges are not recognized as income in the    amortized over the period during which the related
period the refinancing/rescheduling occurs. A decision    indebtedness is outstanding. The unamortized balance
on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-    of the issuance costs is included in Other Assets on the
by-case basis after a suitable period of payment perfor-   balance sheet, and the issuance costs amortization is
mance has passed from the time of arrears clearance,  presented as a separate element under Borrowing
Expenses on the income statement. Amortization of
IORD determines the Accumulated Provision for Loan   d     n    d       u    s    d   n    e 
Losses based on an assessment of collectibility risk in
the total loan and callable guarantees portfolio, includ-    Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
ing loans in nonaccrual status. The accumulated provi-   IORD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability man-
sion is periodically adjusted based on a review of the  agement activities to create synthetic debt instruments
prevailing circumstances. Adjustments to the accumu-    to take advantage of cost saving opportunities across
lated provision are recorded as a charge or credit to  capital markets and lower its funding costs, to delink
income. In the context of determining the adequacy of   the time at which its borrowing costs are fixed from
the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, IlRD con-    the timing of the actual market borrowings, and to
siders the present value of expected cash flows relative    establish an appropriate match between the currency
to the contractual cash flows for loans in making the  and interest rate characteristics of its assets and liabili-
required assessment.                                 ties. These instruments include currency and interest
Investments: Investment securities are classified based    rate swaps, swap spread-locks, foreign exchange for-
onR aaeetsinett of pur  wards, exchange-traded futures, options and deferred
and anticipatory rate setting contracts. These deriva-
198 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



tives are used to modify the interest rate and/or cur-  which were repurchased by members with U.S. dol-
rency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio and are   lars, and (ii) $435 million ($419 million-June 30,
linked to the related borrowings at inception and  1996) which were the proceeds from encashments of
remain so throughout the terms of their contracts. The    U.S. dollar-denominated notes which are included in
interest component of these derivatives is recognized as   the amounts mentioned in (2) above, are freely usable
an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the    by IBRD in any of its operations. The portion of the
derivative contract and included in Interest under Bor-   amounts paid in U.S. dollar-denominated notes are
rowing Expenses on the income statement. Upon ter-    encashed by IsRD in accordance with the schedules
mination, the change in the derivative's market value is   agreed between the members and IBRD. The remaining
recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of the  amounts paid in the currencies of the members,
underlying borrowing and recognized as an adjustment   referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD
of the borrowing cost over the remaining life of the  in its lending operations only with the consent of the
borrowing. In instances where the underlying borrow-    respective members, and for administrative expenses.
ing is prepaid, the change in the associated derivative's    The equivalent of $5,299 million ($5,522 million-
market value is recognized immediately as an adjust-  June 30, 1996) has been used for lending purposes,
ment to the cost of the underlying borrowing instru-  with such consent.
ment and accordingly into income. Currency swap
payables and receivables are recorded on a historical  Membership: In February 1993 IBRD's Executive Direc-
cost basis and are separate items on the balance sheet.   tors decided that the SFRY had ceased to be a member
The notional principal on interest rate swaps is treated    of IBR and that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegov-
as an off-balance sheet item,                      ina (now called Bosnia and Herzegovina), the Republic
of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace-
Fair Value Disclosures: Financial instruments for  donia, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Federal
which market quotations are available have been val-    Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (FRY)
ued at the prevailing market value. Financial instru-  are authorized to succeed to the SFRY's membership
ments for which market quotations are not readily  when certain requirements are met, including entering
available have been valued using methodologies and  into a final agreement with IBRD on IBRD'S loans made to
assumptions that necessarily require the use of subjec-   or guaranteed by the SFRY which the particular succes-
tive judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which    sor Republic would assume. Four of the five successor
such financial instruments could be exchanged in a  Republics-Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of
current transaction or whether they are actually   Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, and the former
exchangeable is not determinable.                  Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia-have become mem-
NOTE A-CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CUR-    bers of iBRD. The paid-in portion of the SFRY'S sub-
RENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE AND                  scribed capital allocated to the FRY is included under
MEMBERSHIP                                         Payments on Account of Pending Subscriptions until
the requirements of succession are met.
Capital Stock:At June 30,1997, IBRD'S capital com-
prised 1,558,478 (1,558,478-June 30, 1996) autho-  NOTE B-INVESTMENTS
rized shares, of which 1,512,211 (1,497,325-June 30,    As part of its overall portfolio management strategy,
1996) shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par    IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time
value of 0. I million 1974 SDRS, valued at the rate of  deposits and related financial instruments with off-bal-
$1.20635 per 1974 SDR Of the subscribed capital,   ance sheet risk including futures, forward contracts,
$11,048 million ($10,994 million-June 30,1996) has    covered forward contracts, options and short sales.
been paid in, and the remaining $171,378 million
($169,636 million-June 30, 1996) is subject to call  On April 18, 1997, the Executive Directors approved
only when required to meet the obligations of IBM cre-    changes in IBRD'S general investment authority to per-
ated by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to $145 940    mit IBRD to invest in marketable bonds, notes, and
million ($144,504 million-June 30, 1996) the restric-    other debt obligations or securities (including asset-
tion on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement  backed securities) issued or unconditionally guaran-
and as to $25,438 million ($25,132 million-June 30  teed by corporate entities or trusts. Such obligations or
1996) by resolutions of the Board of Governors.    securities require a credit rating of AAA. IBRD was also
authorized to enter into currency swaps for liquid
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscrip-   asset management purposes.
tions paid in to IBRD is divided into two parts: (1)
$1,105 million ($1,100 million-June 30,1996) ini-  Government and Agency Obligations:These obliga-
tially paid in gold or U.S. dollars and (2) $9,943 mil-    tions include marketable bonds, notes and other obli-
lion ($9,894 million-June 30, 1996) paid in cash or  gations. Obligations issued or unconditionally
noninterest-bearing demand obligations denominated    guaranteed by governments of countries require a
either in the currencies of the respective members or    minimum credit rating of AA, if denominated in a cur-
in U.S. dollars. The amounts mentioned in (1) above,    rency other than the home currency of the issuer,
and (i) $777 million ($777 million-June 30, 1996)  otherwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 199



an agency or instrumentality of a government of a            The initial price of an option contract is equal to the
country, a multilateral organization or any other offi-      premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less
cial entity require a minimum credit rating of AA.           than the contract or notional amount. IBRD does not
Time Deposits:Time deposits include certificates of          write uncovered option contracts.
deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations         Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities
issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and            Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under
other financial institutions.                                which a party sells securities and simultaneously
agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts          future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transac-
are cnrac         ts f e      de ivr  of  seurities eo      tion is called a resale agreement. Securities loans are
money market instruments in which the seller agrees          contracts under which securities are lent for a specified
to make delivery at a specified future date of a speci-      pod .of time atia fedurice.
fled instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures
contracts are traded on regulated United States and          Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held
international exchanges. IBRD generally closes out most    in IBRD'S portfolio at the time of the sale. IBRD must
open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity.       purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk
Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly lim-         that the market value of the security will move
ited to the change in market value of the futures con-       adversely between the time of the sale and the time
tracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily             the security must be delivered.
settlement of the net cash margin.                           Covered Forwards: Covered forwards are agreements
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder         in which cash in one currency is converted into a dif-
of the option the right, but not the obligation to pur-      ferent currency and, simultaneously, a forward
chase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price    exchange agreement is executed providing for a future
within a specified period of time from or to the seller      exchange of the two currencies in order to recover the
of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a pre-        currency converted.
mium at the outset to the seller of the option, who
then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the          Liquid Porpoolo:A  summary of IBRD'S position in trad-
price of the financial instrument underlying the             ing and other liquid portfolio instruments at June 30,
option. IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options.        1997 and June 30, 1996 is as follows:
In millions of US. dollars equivalent
Other              All
Deutsche nark     Japanese yen       US. dollars        currencies         currencies
1997    1996    1997    1996       1997      1996     1997    1996      1997      1996
Trading:
Government and agency
obligations:
Carrying value               642      524       -    1,119      2,873     3,536      20      238    3,535     5,417
Average balance during
fiscal year                 429      879      324   2,738      2,237     3,473     182      257     3,172    7,347
Net gains (losses) for the
fiscal year                  (2)      19       (2)    (45)      (13)      (41)      10        7       (7)      (60)
Average yield (O)            3.22    4.60        -     1.35      5.92      5.03    3.52    4.82       5.40     4.12
Average maturity (years)     2.03     5.10       -     2.94      5.35      3.80    0.19    8.40       4.71      3.87
Time deposits:
Carrying value              1,311   1,041    3,569    1,775     7,664     5,822   1,149      942    13,693    9,580
Average balance during
fiscal year                 578      411    2,126   1,562      6,847     3,793   1,055   1,035    10,606    6,801
Net gains (losses) for the
fiscal year                   -       -         -       -         -         -       -        (*)       -        (*)
Average yield(%)             3.11    3.38      0.49    0.50      5.91      5.52    3.76    3.96       4.05      4.21
Average maturity (years)     0.23    0.02      0.20    0.07      0.13      0.01    0.17    0.02       0.16      0.03
Futures and forxvards:
Carrying value                  1       1                 3        -         -       -                   1        4
Average balance during
fiscal year                    1       1         2       3        -         -         *       e         3        4
Net gains (losses) for the
fiscal year                  (*)      (2)        1      (3)       11        15               (8)       12       10
(table continued on next page)
200 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



(table continued)
In millions of US. dollars equivalent
Other             All
Deutsche mark    Japanese yen       U.S dollars       currencies        currences
1997    1996    1997    1996    1997       1996    1997    1996    1997        1996
Options:
Carrying value               -        -         *        *        *       (*)
Average balance during
fiscal year                  -       -
Net gains (losses) for the
fiscal year                 (*)      (*)      (*)     (*)      (1)       (2)             (*)       (1)      (2)
Total Trading Investments***
Carrying value              1,954   1,566    3,569   2,897   10,537    9,358   1,169   1,180   17,229   15,001
Average balance during
fiscalyear                 1,008   1,291    2,452   4,303    9,084      7,266   1,237   1,292   13,781   14,152
Net gains (losses) for the
fiscal year                  (2)      17       (*)    (48)      (3)      (28)      10       7        4      (52)
Repurchase agreements and
Securities loans:
Carrying value                -        -        -       -      (294)  (2,394)      -      (45)    (294)  (2,439)
Average balance during fiscal    (34)   (142)            - -   (716)  (1,406)    (80)    (27)    (830)  (1,575)
year
Average yield(%)              -        -        -       -       5.73      5.20      -     4.06      5.73     5.18
Average maturity (years)       -       -        -       -       0.02      0.02      -     0.02     0.02      0.02
Resale agreements:
Carrying value                 2      571       -       -         95      655      -        56       97    1,282
Averagebalanceduringfiscal   305      463       -       -        721      775      92       68    1,118    1,306
year
Average yield (%)            2.90    3.49       -       -       5.46      5.17      -     4.40      5.41     4.39
Average maturity (years)     0.02    0.01       -       -       0.06      0.03      -               0.06     0.02
Short sales
Carrying value                -      (25)       -       -       (92)      (54)      -       (*)     (92)     (79)
Average balance during fiscal    (42)    (44)   -       (5)    (134)    (133)    (15)    (12)    (191)    (194)
year
Net covered forwards:
Carrying value              (908)      60  (3,226)    (91)    4,571       (17)   (560)      50    (123)         2
Average balance during fiscal   (198)  162    (694)    (88)    1,047    (423)   (142)    348         13       (1)
year
Average yield (0)            3.10    3.33     0.48    0.43      5.78      5.40    3.69    3.17      3.55     3.69
Average maturity (years)     0.33    0.01     0.21    0.04      0.24      0.02    0.27    0.01     0.24      0.02
Less than $0.5 million.
Less than 0.005 years.
May differ from the sum of individual figures due to rounding.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 201



Held to-maturity portfolio:The carrying and fair values of investment securities in the Held-to-maturity portfolio
at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 are as follows:
In millions
1997
Average       Gross         Gross
Carrying      yield       unrealized    unrealized
value         (%)          gains         losses     Fair value
Government and agency obligations           $1,140         8.74         $110            $_          $1,250
Time deposits                                  139          6.38           -             -             139
Total                                        $1,279         8.49         $110           $-          $1,389
In millions
1996
Average       Gross         Gross
Carrying      yield       unrealized    unrealized
value         (°           gains         losses     Fair value
Government and agency obligations           $1,055         8.74          $56           $-          $1,111
Time deposits                                  114         5.81            -             -             114
Total                                       $1,169         8.46           $56           $=          $1,225
At June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996, the Held-to-         The expected maturities of investment securities in
maturity portfolio comprised investments in pounds       the Held-to-maturity portfolio at June 30, 1997 and
sterling only. The annualized rate of return on average  June 30, 1996 are summarized below
investments in the Held-to-maturity portfolio held
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 was 8.31
percent (8.35 percent-June 30, 1996).
In milions                                               In millions
1997                                                  1996
Net                                                   Net
Carrying   Fair   unrealized                         Carrying   Fair     unrealized
value    value    gains                              value    value      gains
July 1, 1997 through                                     July 1, 1996 through
June 30, 1998           $  139   $ 139    $ -            June 30, 1997       $  114   $ 114         $_
July 1, 1998 through                                     July 1, 1997 through
June30,2002                172       177       5         June30,2001            162       170         8
July 1, 2002 through                                     July 1, 2001 through
June 30, 2007              255       277      22         June 30, 2006          236       252        16
Thereafter                  713       796      83        Thereafter              657       689        32
Total                    $1,279    $1,389    $110        Total                $1,169    $1,225      $56
NOTE C-LOANS, COFINANCING AND                            Average maturity: IBRD maintains a targeted currency
GUARANTEES                                               composition in its multicurrency loans. The present target
ratio is one U.S. dollar for every 125 Japanese yen and two
Multicurrency Loans                                      Deutsche mark equivalents (consisting of Deutsche mark,
Fixed rate loans: On loans negotiated prior to July      Netherlands guilders and Swiss francs). These five major
1982, IBRD charges interest at fixed rates.              currencies comprise at least 90 percent of the multicur-
Adjustable rate loans: In 1982 IBRD mitigated its interest    rency loans' U.S. dollar equivalent value, with the remain-
rate risk by moving from fixed rate to adjustable rate   der in other currencies. This ratio has been maintained
lending. This rate, reset twice a year, is based on IBRD'S  S tce 199m1, and i    revlwedopesidffcted by the selection of
own cost of qualified borrowings plus a 50 basis point   cre        disburemens on te          d by the
spread, resulting in a pass-through of its average borrow-    currencies for d fsbursements on those loans and by the
ing costs to those members that benefit from IBRD loans.  currencies selected for the billing of the pricipal repay-
202 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



ments. Along with the selection of disbursement curren-    will be maintained at or above that level thereafter. The
cies, IBRD manages the selection of repayment currencies    rates that will be charged on single currency pool loans
to maintain the alignment of the multicurrency loans'  will be variable based on the average cost of outstanding
composition with the target ratio. The selection of cur-  borrowings allocated to fund loans in each individual
rencies for repayment billing by IBRD precludes the deter-   single currency pool plus a 50 basis point spread. Con-
mination of average maturity information for         versions to the new single currency pool terms will be
multicurrency loans by individual currency. Accordingly,    implemented on one of three conversion dates (July 1,
mBRD only discloses the maturity periods for its multicur-  1997, January 1, 1998 or July 1,1998), depending
rency loans on a combined U.S. dollars equivalent basis.  upon the date the conversion request is approved by
IBRD. At June 30, 1997, borrowers had requested and
Single Currency Loans                                IBRD had converted $6,412 million of undisbursed mult-
Fixed rate loans: IBRD introduced fixed rate single cur-   icurrency pool loan amounts to single currency loan
rency loans in 1995. The rates charged on fixed rate  terms and $5,764 million remained to be converted at
single currency loans are set on semi-annual rate fixing    that date. At June 30, 1997, borrowers had requested
dates for loan amounts disbursed during the preceding    that $9,794 million of outstanding multicurrency pool
six-month period and remain fixed for such disbursed    loan amounts and $71 million of undisbursed multicur-
amounts until they are repaid. For the interim period  rency pool loan amounts be converted to single cur-
from the date each disbursement is made until its rate    rency pool loan terms on July 1, 1997.
fixing date, interest accrues at a variable rate equal to
the rate on LIBoR-based single currency loans (PIBOR-  Waivers of Loan Interest and Charges
based for French franc denominated loans) applicable  On August 1, 1996, IBRD's Executive Directors
for such interim period. The fixed lending rate com-  approved a one-year interest waiver of 25 basis points
prises a base rate reflecting medium- to long-term   on disbursed and outstanding loans for all payment
market rates on the rate fixing date, plus a total spread    periods commencing in the fiscal year ending June 30,
consisting of (a) IBRD'S funding cost margin for these  1997 for all eligible borrowers. A similar waiver of 25
loans, (b) a risk premium (intended to compensate    basis points was in effect for the fiscal year ended June
IBRD for market risks incurred in funding these loans),    30, 1996. In fiscal year 1995 IBRD's Executive Direc-
and (c) a spread of 50 basis points.                 tors approved a one-time 10 basis point interest
waiver, for two consecutive six-month interest periods,
LIBoR-based loans: fBRD introduced LIBoR-based single  on currency pool loans which a borrower converts
currency loans in 1993. The rates charged on LIBOR-  from loan interest rate terms in effect between 1982
based single currency loans are a direct pass-through of    and 1989 to interest rate terms in effect since 1989.
IBRD's cost of funding for these loans, and are reset  For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997, the combined
semi-annually. They comprise a base rate equal to the  effect of these waivers was to reduce Net Income by
six-month reference interbank offered rate for the   $259 million ($286 million-June 30 1996).
applicable currency on the rate reset date and a total
spread consisting of (a) IBRD's average funding cost mar-   Further, on August 1, 1996, the Executive Directors
gin for these loans and (b) a spread of 50 basis points.  approved a one-year commitment fee waiver of 50
Since September 1, 1996, IBRD has offered its borrow-  basis points on undisbursed loans to all borrowers for
ers, in addition to its loan products, the option to con-  all payment periods commencing in the fiscal year end-
vert inaddition . t its     pool loan products, meopn  too  ing June 30, 1997. A similar waiver of 50 basis points
vert undlisbursed multicurrency pool loan amounts to  wsi  fetfrtefsa  ereddJn  0  96
single currency loan terms. Further, borrowers have the    was   or the fiscal year  eendedeune 30, 1997, the effect of
option to convert disbursed and undisbursed multicur-  Fthe fcmitent fee wier was to9reduce Net no
renc poo loa amut.onwsnlurnypo                   the commitment fee waiver was to reduce Net Income
rency poOl loan amounts to new single currency pool  by $226 million ($235 million-June 30, 1996).
loans. Borrowers selecting single currency pool loans'
have their choice of four different pools (U. S. dollars,  A summary of IBRD'S outstanding loans by currency and
Japanese yen, Deutsche mark or Swiss francs). Each sin-   product at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 follows:
gle currency pool will be a multicurrency pool at incep-
tion, but will be adjusted to reach a level of at least 90
percent in the designated currency by July 1, 1999 and
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 203



In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
1997
Multicurrency loans      Single currency loans         Total loans
Weighted            Weighted   Average             Weighted
average             average   maturity             average
Currency               Rate type     Amount   rate (%)/   Amount   rate (to)   (years)    Amount   rate (%)
Deutsche mark         Fixed         $  1,937       8.77    S   -                   -   $  1,937       8.77
Adjustable       27,269      6.70        83       3.48     7.07    27,352       6.69
Japanese yen          Fixed             1,954      8.87        -         -         -       1,954      8.87
Adjustable       30,154      6.70         5       0.81     3.51     30,159      6.70
Netherlands guilders    Fixed            179       8.42        -         -         -         179      8.42
Adjustable        1,155      6.70        -         -         -       1,155      6.70
Swiss francs          Fixed             1,064      8.02        -         -         -       1,064      8.02
Adjustable        3,438      6.70        -         -         -       3,438      6.70
U.S. dollars          Fixed             1,578      8.78     2,315       7.03     6.63      3,893      7.74
Adjustable       27,848      6.70     4,515       6.01     8.99    32,363       6.60
Others                Fixed              154       9.11       133      6.35      7.17       287       7.83
Adjustable        2,020      6.70         4       3.53     7.80      2,024      6.69
Loans outstanding    Fixed              6,866      8.68     2,448       6.99     6.66      9,314      8.24
Adjustable       91,884      6.70     4,607       5.96     8.95    96,491       6.66
Total         $ 98,750       6.84    $ 7,055      6.32     8.16   105,805       6.80
Less accumulated provision for loan losses                                                 3,210
Loans outstanding net of accumulated provision                                          $102,595
* Excludes effects of any waivers of loan interest.
In millions of US. dollars equivalent
1996
Muficurrency loans       Single currency loans         Total loans
Weighted            Weighted   Average             Weighted
average             average   maturity            average
Currency                Rate type    Amount   rate (%)    Amount   rate (oo)   (years)    Amount   rate (%)
Deutschemark          Fixed         $  3,111       8.68    $   -         -         -   $  3,111       8.68
Adjustable      26,838       6.98        -         -         -      26,838      6.98
Japanese yen          Fixed             3,093      8.88        -         -         -       3,093      8.88
Adjustable      31,259       6.98        -         -         -      31,259      6.98
Netherlands guilders    Fixed            325       8.58        -         -         -        325       8.58
Adjustable        1,845      6.98        -         -         -       1,845      6.98
Swiss francs          Fixed             1,989      8.18        -         -         -       1,989      8.18
Adjustable        7,029      6.98        -         -         -       7,029      6.98
U.S.dollars           Fixed             2,266      8.85      1,119      6.79     7.17      3,385      8.17
Adjustable       27,640      6.98     1,096       5.66    10.11    28,736       6.93
Others                Fixed              255       9.16        42       7.29     7.20       297       8.89
Adjustable        2,331      6.98         8      5.07      7.80      2,339      6.97
Loans outstanding     Fixed            11,039      8.69     1,161       6.81     7.17     12,200      8.51
Adjustable      96,942       6.98     1,104      5.66     10.09    98,046       6.96
Total         $107,981       7.15    $ 2,265     6.25      8.59   110,246       7.13
Less accumulated provision for loan losses                                                 3,340
Loans outstanding net of accumulated provision                                          $106,906
* Excludes effects of any waivers of loan interest.
204 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



The maturity structure of IBRD's loans outstanding, by product, at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 is as follows:
In millions
1997
MuLiicurrency loans  Single currency loans            All loans
Period                Rate type:   Fixed    Adjustable   Fixed    Adjustable    Fixed   Adjustable     Total
July 1,1997 through                $2,844    $ 9,150    $  -       $   4       $2,844    $ 9,154      $11,998
June 30, 1998
July 1, 1998 through                3,675     37,141       773        774       4,448     37,915       42,363
June 30, 2002
July 1, 2002 through                 335      33,585     1,365      2,283       1,700     35,868       37,568
June 30, 2007
Thereafter                             12     12,008       310      1,546         322      13,554      13,876
Loans outstanding                  $6,866    $91,884    $2,448    $4,607       $9,314    $96,491    $105,805
In millions
1996
Multicurrency loans  Single currency loans            All loans
Period                Rate type:   Fixed    Adjustable    Fixed    Adjustable    Fixed  Adjustable     Total
July 1, 1996 through              $ 3,837    $ 8,868    $  -       $  -       $ 3,837    $ 8,868    $ 12,705
June 30, 1997
July 1, 1997 through                6,437     38,825       302       245        6,739     39,070       45,809
June 30, 2001
July 1,2001 through                   734     35,281       646       433        1,380     35,714       37,094
June 30, 2006
Thereafter                             31     13,968       213       426          244      14,394      14,638
Loans outstanding                 $11,039    $96,942    $1,161    $1,104      $12,200    $98,046    $110,246
Estimated Value of Loans                                 ings, since the interest rate for such loans is based on
All of IBRD'S loans are made to or guaranteed by coun-    the interest rate of the qualified borrowings.
tries that are members of IBRD, except for those loans   Single Currency Loans:The estimated value of fixed
made to IFC. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor  rate single currency loans has been based on dis-
is there a market of loans comparable to those made      counted future cash flows using the rate at which IBRD
by IBRD.                                                 could make similar loans of comparable maturities at
Multicurrency loans:The estimated value of fixed rate    June 30, 1997. The estimated value of LIBOR-based sin-
loans negotiated prior to July 1982 has been based on    gle currency loans has been based on the relationship
discounted future cash flows using the rate at which     of the fair value to the carrying value of the underlying
IBRD could undertake borrowings of comparable matu-    borrowings funding these loans.
rities at June 30, 1997 plus a 50 basis point spread.    The following table reflects the carrying and estimated
The estimated value of adjustable rate multicurrency     values of the loan portfolio based on current borrow-
loans is based on the relationship of the fair value to  ing rates net of the Accumulated Provision for Loan
the carrying value of the underlying qualified borrow-   Losses at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996:
In miUions
1997                                 1996
Carrying value     Estimated value   Carrying value    Estimated value
Multicurrency loans
Fixed                                   $  6,866            $  7,655          $ 11,039           $ 12,383
Adjustable                                 91,884             99,775            96,942            103,080
Single currency loans
Fixed                                       2,448              2,497             1,161               1,067
Adjustable                                  4,607              4,844             1,104               1,108
Total loans
Fixed                                       9,314             10,152            12,200             13,450
Adjustable                                 96,491            104,619            98,046             104,188
105,805            114,771           110,246            117,638
Less accumulated provision
for loan losses                             3,210              3,210             3,340              3,340
Loans outstanding net of
accumulated provision                   $102,595            $111,561         $106,906            $114,298
IBRD FIiNANCLtL STATEAMENTS 205



Cofinancing and Guarantees                             ($122 million-June 30, 1996). IBRD has partially
IBRD has taken direct participations in, or provided par-   guaranteed the timely payment of interest amounts on
tial guarantees of, loans syndicated by other financial  certain loans that have been sold. At June 30, 1997,
institutions for projects or programs also financed by  these guarantees, approximating $1 million ($1 mil-
IBRD through regular loans. IBRD also has provided par-    lion-June 30, 1996), were subject to call.
tial guarantees of securities issued by an entity eligible    Statutory Lending Limit
for IBRD loans. JBRD'S partial guarantees of bond issues
are included in the guarantees amount mentioned        Under the Articles of Agreement, the total amount
below. IBRD's direct participations in syndicated loans  outstanding of callable guarantees, participations in
are included in the reported loan balances.           loans, and direct loans made by IBRD may not be
increased to an amount exceeding 100 percent of the
Guarantees of loan principal of $1,593 million at June    sum of Subscribed Capital, reserves, and surplus. At
30, 1997 ($1,537 million-June 30,1996) were not        June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996, the status of the
included in reported loan balances. At June 30, 1997,  statutory lending limit is as follows:
$148 million of these guarantees were subject to call
In mnillions
2997               1996
Statutory lending limit
Subscribed capital                                                        $182,426           $180,630
Retained earnings                                                           16,194              16,099
Cumulative translation adjustment                                               85               1,056
$198,705           $197,785
Loans and guarantees outstanding
Loans outstanding                                                         $105,805           $110,246
Principal guarantees callable                                                  148                122
Interest guarantees callable                                                     1                  I
$105,954           $110,369
Loans and guarantees outstanding as a percentage of statutory lending limit       53%                56%
Overdue Amounts                                        were in nonaccrual status. At such date, overdue inter-
At June 30, 1997, no loans payable to IBRD other than  est and other charges in respect of these loans totaled
those referred to in the following paragraphs were     $893 million ($808 million-June 30, 1996). If these
overdue by more than three months.                     loans bad not been in nonaccrual status, income from
loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 would
At June 30, 1997, the loans made to or guaranteed by   have been higher by $146 million ($188 million-
certain member countries and the FRY with an aggre-    June 30,1996).
gate principal balance outstanding of $2,360 million
($2,520 million-June 30, 1996), of which $1,314        A summary of countries with loans or guarantees in
million ($1,227 million-June 30,1996) was overdue,    nonaccrual status follows:
In millions
1997
Principal and charges     Nonaccrual
Borrower                               Principal outstanding          overdue                 since
With overdues
Congo, Democratic Republic of              $  84                     $  72            November 1993
Iraq                                           44                        68           December 1990
Liberia                                       141                       252           June 1987
Sudan                                           6                         4           January 1994
Syrian Arab Republic                          360                       513           February 1987
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of
(Serbia/Montenegro)                        1,146                     1,298           September 1992
Total                                       1,781                      2,207
Without overdues
Bosnia and Herzegovina                        579                        -            September 1992
Total                                        $2,360                    $2,207
206  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



In connection with the cessation of the membership of    An analysis of the changes to the Accumulated Provi-
the SFRY discussed in Note A, in February 1993 IBRD  sion for Loan Losses for the fiscal years ended June 30,
reached an agreement with the FRY for the apportion-  1997 and June 30,1996 appears below:
ment and service of debt due to IBRD on loans made to
or guaranteed by the sFRY and assumed by the FRY,     In nmlions
which confirmed a February 1992 interim agreement
between the sFRY (then consisting of the Republics of                              1997         1996
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and     Balance, beginning of        $3,340       $3,740
Serbia) and IBRD pertaining, among other things, to    the fiscal year
such loans. As of the date hereof, no debt-service pay-  Provision for loan losses    63           42
ments have been received by IBRD from the FRY.        Translation adjustment         (193)       (442)
In June 1996 the accumulated arrears on loans to the  Balance, end of the fiscal
former SFRY assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina were     year                        $3,210       $3,340
cleared through three new consolidation loans
extended by IsRD. These new loans consolidated all
outstanding principal and overdue interest on the
loans assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. This        IERD has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing
resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $168  the debt problems of a group of countries identified as
million and the deferral of the recognition of the   heavily indebted poor countries (HiPcs) to ensure that
related interest income. The first consolidation loan  the reform efforts of these countries will not be put at
was a currency pool loan of $29 million carrying IBRD's   risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. Under this
adjustable lending rate for such loans at the time, 6.98    initiative, creditors are to provide enhanced debt relief
percent, plus 41 basis points. The second consolidation    for those countries that demonstrated good policy per-
loan was also a currency pool loan in the amount of  formance over an extended period to bring their debt
$285 million carrying IsRD's adjustable lending rate for    burdens to sustainable levels. On November 7, 1996,
such loans at the time, 6.98 percent, plus 4 basis   the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established,
points. The third consolidation loan was a U. S. dollar  constituted by funds to be contributed by creditors of
LiBoR-based single currency loan of $307 million carry-   HIPCS, to assist eligible beneficiary countries reduce their
ing [BRD's lending rate for such loans at the time, 5.38  overall debt burden. The HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
percent. All three consolidation loans have a final  is administered by IDA. IBRD has taken the situation of
maturity of 30 years, which includes a five-year grace    these countries into account in its review of the ade-
period. The consolidation loans aggregated the existing    quacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses.
assumed loans which had final maturities ranging from  Fifth Dimension Program
April 1, 1992 to May 15, 2001 and a combined
wreighted-average interest rate of 7.95 percent.     Under IDA'S Fifth Dimension program established in
September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to
Tihe average recorded investment in nonaccruing loans    IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supple-
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 was $2,430    mentary IDA credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no
million ($2,466 million-June 30, 1996).              longer able to borrow on LBRD terms, but have outstand-
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and June  ing IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and
30, 1996, no loans came out of nonaccrual status.    have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment
30, 1996, no loans came out of nonaccr-ual status.  program. Such supplementary IDA credits are allocated
Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses                to countries that meet specified conditions, in propor-
IBRD has never suffered a loss on any of its loans, with  tion to each country's interest payments due that year
the exception of losses resulting from the difference  on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for
between the present value of payments for interest and    such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must
charges made according to the related loan's contractual    meet IDA's eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligi-
terms and the present value of their expected future  ble for IsRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan
tem  and the prsn vau of thixetdftr                 approved within the last twelve months. To receive a
cash flows discounted at the loan's contractual rates.  spplementa it the    program, a memer
Certain borrowers have found it difficult to make    supplemental credit from the program, a member
timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in  country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its
their loans being placed in nonaccrual status. Several  d        p
borrowers have emerged from nonaccrual status after a    IDA had approved credits of $1,526 million ($1,379 mil-
of time by bringing up-to-date all principal pay-    lion-June 30, 1996) under this program from incep-
period                                               tion ofe whic $1,435 millionat  ($132  millionpy-June
ments and all overdue service payments, including    ton, ofwhich $1,435 millon ($1,327 million-June
interest and other charges. In an attempt to recognize  30, 1996) had been disbursed to the eligible countries.
the risk inherent in these and any other potential over-
due payments, IBRD maintains a provision for loan losses.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 207



NOTE D-BORROWINGS                                    Forward interest rate swaps:A forward interest rate
Providing liquidity and minimizing the cost of funds  swap is an agreement under which the cash flow
are key objectives to IBRD'S overall borrowing strategy  exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would
IBRD uses swaps in its borrowing strategy to lower the  begin to take effect from a specified date.
overall cost of its borrowings for those members who  Swaptions:A swaption is an option that gives the
benefit from rBRD loans. IBRD undertakes swap transac-  holder the right to enter into an interest rate or cur-
tions with a list of authorized counterparties. Credit  rency swap at a certain future date.
limits have been established for each counterparty.  Deferred rate setting (DRs) agreements: DRs allows an
Currency swaps: Currency swaps are agreements com-   entity to fix the effective interest cost of all or a portion
prised of a conversion of the proceeds of a borrowing  of debt issues over a specified period of time after the
into a different currency and a forward exchange agree-   issue date of the respective debt issues. IBRD enters into
ment providing for a schedule of future exchanges of  DRS agreements in conjunction with some of its bond
the two currencies in order to recover the currency  issues. The agreements provide for payments to be
converted. The combination of a borrowing and a cur-    made to or by IBRD reflecting gain or loss on one or more
rency swap produces the financial equivalent of substi-    government securities or related financial instruments.
tuting a borrowing in the currency obtained in the   The potential credit loss to IBRD from nonperformance
initial conversion for the original borrowing.       is limited to any amounts due, but unsettled, from the
Interest rate swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements   financial intermediary. However, periodic mark-to-mar-
wbicn transform a fixed rate payment obsgation in a  ket settlements on these agreements limit this risk. At
particular currency into a floating rate obligation in  June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996, the effective interest
that currency or vice-versa.                         cost of all principal amounts had been fixed.
208  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



A summary of IBRD's borrowings portfolio at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 follows:
Medium- and Long-term Borrowings and Swaps at June 30, 1997
In millions of US. dolars equivalent
Currency                Interest rate
Direct borrowings        swap agreements          swap agreements        Net currency obligations
Notional
Wgtd. Average   Amount  Wgtd.            anount  Wgtd. Average   Amount  Wgtd.
avg.   matu-    payable  avg.  Average   payable  avg.  matu-    payable  avg   Average
Currency/                cost   rity     (receiv-   cost maturity   (receiv-   cost   rity  (receiv-  cost inaturity'
Rate type       Amount  (%)  (years)    able)   (%)   (years)    able)   (°/°)  (years)    able)   (%)   (years)
Deutsche mark
Fixed         $12,468  6.58    5.43   $ 3,071   7.47    2.33   $  6,800  6.93    2.74   $ 22,339  6.81      4.19
(393) 5.93   14.05     (2,878)  5.25    4.48     (3,271) 5.33    5.63
Adjustable       203  7.54    6.12       8,921   3.05    2.98     2,936  3.24    4.53      12,060  3.17     3.41
(22) 5.58    0.99     (6,858) 3.35    2.78      (6,880) 3.35    2.77
Japanese yen
Fixed          24,501   5.15    4.48       529  5.63    2.39      2,148  3.60    1.87      27,178  5.04     4.23
(1,251) 5.99    6.07     (3,123) 3.02    4.39     (4,374) 3.85     4.86
Adjustable      1,223  1.83    2.66        506  0.05    1.20      3,123  0.57    4.39       4,852  0.83     3.62
(44) 4.45   14.98     (2,148)  1.34    1.87     (2,192)  1.41   2.13
Netherlands
guilders
Fixed           1,873   7.25    3.28        80  6.31    0.19         -      -       -       1,953  7.21     3.15
(1,123) 7.62    2.05                              (1,123) 7.62     2.05
Swiss francs
Fixed           3,916  6.02    5.63      1,862  5.20    2.94        780  7.11    2.77       6,558  5.91     4.52
(3,050)  5.79    2.84                             (3,050) 5.79     2.84
Adjustable         -     -       -         780  0.74    2.70                                  780  0.74     2.70
(780)  1.73    2.77      (780)  1.73    2.77
U.S. dollars
Fixed          23,725   7.49    6.63       178  8.98    2.99      6,095  6.81    3.67      29,998  7.36     6.01
(1,023) 9.19    3.12    (10,518) 6.29    5.69    (11,541) 6.55     5.46
Adjustable      1,213  5.14    3.59     12,111   5.49    6.26     10,646  5.77    5.64     23,970  5.59     5.85
(2,511) 5.57    2.31     (6,223) 5.78    3.62     (8,734)  5.72    3.24
Others
Fixed          18,112  8.71    4.80        157  8.34    2.09        113  5.77    7.17      18,382  8.68     4.79
(16,029) 8.59    4.43      (424) 7.12    5.73    (16,453) 8.55      4.46
Adjustable      1,798  5.92    4.95         13  0.85    0.32        424  3.35    5.73       2,235  5.46     5.07
(2,149) 5.61    5.08      (113) 3.46    7.17      (2,262) 5.50     5.18
Total
Fixed          84,595  6.86    5.32      5,877                    15,936                  106,408  6.79     4.82
(22,869)                 (16,943)                 (39,812) 6.95     4.70
Adjustable      4,437  4.65    4.00     22,331                    17,129                   43,897  4.31     4.83
(4,726)                 (16,122)                 (20,848) 4.31     3.16
Principal at face
value           89,032   6.75    5.25      613                                              89,645  6.07     5.26
Net unamortized
discounts          (1)                                                -                         (1)
Total           $89,031   6.75    5.25   $   613                 $    -                    $ 89,644  6.07     5.26
* At June 30, 1997 the average repricing period of the net currency obligations for adjustable rate borrowings is four months.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 209



Medium- and Long-term Borrowings and Swaps at June 30, 1996
In millions of US. dollars equivalent
Currency                Interest rate
Direct borrowings         swap agreements          swap agreements         Net currency obligations
Notional
Wgtd. Average   Amount  Wgtd.             amount  Wgtd. Average   Amount  Wgtd.
avg   matu-    payable  avg.  Average   payable  avg   matu-    payable  avg   Average
Currency/                 cost   rity     (receiv-   cost  Xnaturity   (receiv-   cost   rity  (receiv-   cost  mnaturity
Rate type        Amount  (%)   (years)    able)   (%)   (years)    able)   f(%)  (years)    able)   (f%)   (years)
Deutsche mark
Fixed          $14,287   6.71    5.58   $ 2,000   7.75    2.51   $ 8,544   7.08    3.41    $24,831   6.92      4.59
(2,134)  5.26    5.51    (2,134)  5.26    5.51
Adjustable         229  7.54    7.12       9,919  2.93    3.53      2,199   3.37    5.57     12,347  3.09      3.96
(8,609) 3.47    3.45     (8,609) 3.47     3.45
Japanese yen
Fixed           29,466   5.24    4.78       335   5.51    2.21       1,329   5.49    3.15    31,130   5.26     4.68
(964) 6.12    8.07      (2,528)  2.64    5.72     (3,492) 3.59     6.36
Adjustable       1,232   2.04    3.21        71  0.03      1.59     2,528  0.67    5.72       3,831   1.09     4.83
(92) 0.25    0.48      (1,329) 2.09    3.15      (1,421)  1.97    2.97
Netherlands
guilders
Fixed            2,837   7.23    3.33        91  6.31      1.19        -      -       -       2,928   7.20     3.26
(1,447)  7.70    2.77                              (1,447)  7.70    2.77
Swiss francs
Fixed            4,996   6.04    6.28      2,523   5.19    3.39       892  7.11    3.77       8,411   5.90     5.15
(873) 6.47    3.46                                 (873) 6.47      3.46
Adjustable          -     -        -        892  0.84    3.70                                   892   0.84     3.70
(892) 2.08    3.77       (892) 2.08      3.77
U.S. dollars
Fixed           23,305   7.84    6.91       178  8.98    3.99       4,002   7.10    3.72     27,485   7.74     6.43
(1,198)  9.02    3.73    (6,211) 6.45    7.50      (7,409)  6.87    6.89
Adjustable       1,453  4.90    3.87       3,344   5.06    4.49      6,449   5.55    7.27    11,246  5.32      6.00
(848) 4.94    4.66      (4,240) 5.53    3.58      (5,088) 5.43     3.76
Others
Fixed           13,180  9.30    3.72                                   36  6.62    7.20      13,216  9.29      3.73
(10,904) 9.25    2.97       (287) 7.43    4.37    (11,191) 9.21      3.01
Adjustable       1,419  6.38    4.62                                  417   5.24    4.57      1,836  6.12      4.61
(1,610)  5.97    4.51      (166)  8.74    5.47     (1,776)  6.22    4.60
Total
Fixed           88,071   6.90    5.36      5,127                    14,803                  108,001   6.87     4.98
(15,386)                 (11,160)                  (26,546)  7.33    4.74
Adjustable       4,333  4.70    4.10      14,226                   11,593                    30,152   3.79     4.87
(2,550)                 (15,236)                  (17,786) 4.12     3.59
Principal at face
value            92,404                    1,417                        -                     93,821
Net unamortized
discounts          (13)                                                                          (13)
Total            $92,391   6.80    5.29   $ 1,417                   $    -                    $93,808  6.26      5.29
210 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Short-term Borrowings and Swaps at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
In millions of US. dollars equivalent
1997                                              1996
Currency   Interest                                          Interest
swap   rate swap    Net    Wgtd.                  swap    rate swap    Net   Wgtd
payable   payable  currency   avg.                 payable   payable  currency  avg.
Currencyl        Principal   (receiv-   (receiv-   obliga-   cost   Principal   (receiv-   (receiv-   obliga-   cost
Rate type        outstanding    able)    able)    tions*   (%)    outstanding    able)      able)    tions    (%)
Short-term Notes
U.S. dollars
Fixed           $3,015     $  -       $ -      $3,015    5.68      $1,369      $-         $ -      $1,369   5.46
Global Multicurrency Notes
Czech koruny
Fixed              220                  -         220   10.88          54        -         -           54  10.91
(220)     -         (220)  10.88                  (54)        -         (54) 10.91
Deutsche mark
Fixed               -          -        -          -       -           -         20         -         20   3.09
Adjustable          -         394       -         394    2.80          -         54         -          54   3.05
Italian lire
Fixed              148         -        -         148    6.80          20        -          -         20   8.62
(148)     -         (148)   6.80                   (20)       -         (20)  8.62
Japanese yen
Fixed               95         88       -         183    3.16          -         -          -          -      -
(95)     -          (95)   5.93         -          -         -          -      -
New Zealand
dollars
Fixed              137         -        -         137    7.96          -         -          -          -      -
(137)     -         (137)   7.96
Slovak koruny
Fixed               67         -        -          67   12.65          -         -          -          -      -
(67)     -          (67)  12.65         -          -         -          -      -
U.S. dollars
Fixed            1,100        120       -       1,220    4.93         300        -          -        300   5.52
(900)      (900)   4.65          -         -         -          -      -
Adjustable          -         877      900      1,777    5.52          -         -          -          -      -
(112)     -         (112)   5.40          -         -         -          -      -
South African
rand
Fixed              657         -        -         657   15.07          -         -          -          -      -
(657)     -         (657)  15.07          -         -         -          -      -
Central Bank Facility
U.S. dollars
Adjustable       2,200         -        -       2,200    5.14       2,586        -          -       2,586   5.47
Total
Fixed            5,439        208       -       5,647    6.90       1,743        20         -       1,763   5.65
(1,324)   (900)    (2,224)   8.99          -        (74)        -         (74) 10.29
Adjustable       2,200      1,271      900      4,371    5.09       2,586        54         -       2,640   5.42
(112)               (112)   5.40
Principal at face
value             7.639         43       -       7,682    5.28       4,329        -         -       4,329   5.43
Net unamortized
premiums
(discounts)          9                               9                  (1)                            (1)
Total             $7,648     $  43    S -         $7,691    5.28      $4,328     $ -        S -      $4,328   5.43
* At June 30, 1997 the average repricing period of the net currency obligations for short-term borrowings is three months.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 211



The maturity structure of IBRD'S Medium-and Long-term borrowings outstanding at June 30, 1997 and
June 30, 1996 is as follows:
In uillions                                             In millions
Period                                      1997         Period                                      1996
July 1,1997 through June 30, 1998         $13,185        July 1, 1996 through June 30,1997         $12,467
July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999          9,492        July 1, 1997 through June 30,1998           13,949
July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000          17,430       July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999          9,526
July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001          8,173        July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000          14,262
July 1, 2001 through June 30,2002           9,498        July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001           7,529
July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2007         21,806       July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2006          25,886
Thereafter                                  9,448       Thereafter                                   8,785
Total                                     $89,032       Total                                      $92,404
The following table reflects the carrying and estimated fair values of the borrowings portfolio at June 30, 1997 and
June 30, 1996:
In millions
1997                                   1996
Estimated fair                         Estimated fair
Carrying value       value             Carrying value        value
Short-term                             $  7,648          $  7,699             $  4,328          $  4,371
Medium- and long-term                    89,031             96,310              92,391             99,250
Swaps
Currency
Payable                             29,687            30,098               19,427            19,841
Receivable                         (29,031)           (30,375)            (18,010)           (19,203)
Interest rate                              -                654                   -              1,064
Swaptions                                  -                  1                   -                   1
Total                                  $ 97,335          $104,387             $ 98,136          $105,324
The estimated fair values are based on quoted market    lated Provision for Loan Losses. IBRD also uses a simula-
prices where such prices are available. Where no         tion model to assess the adequacy of its reserves in the
quoted market price is available, the fair value is esti-  case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops
mated based on the cost at which IBRD could currently    servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
undertake borrowings with similar terms and remain-      Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk man-
ing maturities, using the secondary market yield curve.
The fair value of swaps represents the estimated cost    agement, TBRD is party to a variety of financial instru-
of            rep s c  rs     tha date.                   ments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in
excess of the amount recorded on the balance sheet.
NOTE E-CREDIT RISK                                       Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential
Country Credit Risk:This risk includes potential losses    accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obli-
arising from protracted arrears on payments from bor-    gors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts.
rowers. IBRD manages country credit risk through indi-   Additionally, the nature of the instruments involve con-
vidual country exposure limits according to             tract value and notional principal amounts that are not
creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied. to per- reflected in the basic financial statements. For both on-
formance on macroeconomic and structural policiesd In    and off-balance sheet securities, IBRD limits trading to a
formance on      .. macroeconomic and structural policies.In list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk
addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share
of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The     is controlled through application of eligibility criteria
country credit risk is further managed by financial      and volume limits for ransacons with individual coun-
incentives such as pricing loans using IBRD'S own cost of    terparties and through the expanding use of mark-to-
borrowing and partial interest charge waivers condi-     market collateral arrangements for swap transactions.
tioned on timely payment that give borrowers self-       IBRD may also accept collateral in the form of cash or
interest in IBRD'S continued strong intermediation       other approved liquid securities from individual counter-
capacity. Collectibility risk is covered by the Accumu-  parties in order to mitigate its credit exposure.
212 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



The contract value/notional amounts and credit risk exposure, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June
30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 are given below:
In milions
1997       1996
INVESTMENTS-TRADING PORTFOLIO
Futures and forwards
* Long position                                                            $ 6,620    $ 1,499
* Short position                                                             6,675       5,875
* Credit exposure due to potential nonperformance by counterparties              1           2
Options
* Long position                                                                134        679
* Short position                                                                -         429
Covered forwards
* Credit exposure due to potential nonperformance by counterparties             36           2
BORROWINGS PORTFOLIO
Currency swaps
* Credit exposure due to potential nonperformance by counterparties          1,255         728
Interest rate swaps
* Notional principal                                                        33,965      26,396
* Credit exposure due to potential nonperformance by counterparties            393          96
Swaptions
* Notional principal                                                            74         30
* Credit exposure due to potential nonperformance by counterparties             -           -
NOTE F-RETAINED EARNINGS,                         out of Surplus: an amount equivalent to $300 million in
ALLOCATIONS AND TRANSFERS                          SDRs (valued at June 30, 1996) to IDA and amounts up
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings comprises the  to $500 million to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
following elements at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996:   (HIPC) Debt Initiative Trust Fund or other arrangements
in support of the HIPc Debt Initiative when other credi-
In millions                                      tors of the eligible beneficiary countries are determined
1997        1996      by IBRO to have agreed to meet their share of the costs
Special reserve           $  293      $  293      envisaged within the framework of the initiative. On
General reserve            14,159      13,909     February 3, 1997, the Board of Governors approved a
Surplus                      457         710      transfer from Surplus, by way of grant, of $90 million to
Unallocated net income      1,285       1,187     the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank.
Total                     $16,194     $16,099
Transfers to International Development Association:
The Board of Governors had approved aggregate
On August 1,1996, the Executive Directors allocated  transfers through June 30, 1996 to IDA totaling $4,831
$250 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year    million from unallocated Net Income. On October 3,
ended June 30, 1996 to the General Reserve. On Octo-    1996, the Board of Governors approved a transfer to
ber 3,1996, the Board of Governors approved the fol-   IDA, by way of grant, of $300 million in an equivalent
lowing transfers, out of unallocated Net Income: an  amount in SDRS out of unallocated Net Income. On the
amount equivalent to $300 million in sDRs (valued at  same day, the Board of Governors approved a transfer,
June 30, 1996) to IDA, by way of grant, and $637 mil-  by way of grant, out of Surplus of $300 million in an
lion to Surplus. On the same day, the Board of Gover-    equivalent amount in SDRS. At June 30, 1997, there
nors approved the following transfers, by way of grant,    was no payable to IDA.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 213



Transfers to Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only    program is expected to result in costs associated with
Countries:The Board of Governors had approved        staff reductions during the fiscal years 1997 through
aggregate transfers through June 30, 1996 to the Debt  1999. At June 30, 1997, 57 staff had been identified for
Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries (DRF) totaling    separation at a cost of $ 10 million. Included in the total
$300 million. At June 30, 1997, $ 118 million ($119  charge of $ 10 million are costs associated with outplace-
million-June 30, 1996) remained payable.             ment consulting, job search assistance, training, medical
Transfer to Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank:The    insurance plan contributions and related tax allowances.
Of the total charge of $10 million, $4 million has been
Board of Governors had approved aggregate transfers  crd to ida for fiscal year 1997 consistent with nor-
through June 30, 1996 to the Trust Fund for Gaza and   con                    c       pu
,                .          ~~~~~~~~~mal cost apportionment procedures applied in the calcu-
West Bank (TFG), totaling $140 million. On February  aIon of the management fee.
3, 1997, the Board of Governors approved a transfer
from Surplus, by way of grant, of $90 million. At June    Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June
30,1997, $83 million ($70 million-June 30, 1996)     30, 1997 are net of the management fee of $416 mil-
remained payable.                                    lion ($508 million-June 30, 1996) charged to IDA and
$108 million ($102 million-June 30, 1996) charged
Tranferto TustFundforBosia ad Hrzegvin:In to reimbursable prog=rams. Included in the amounts
February 1996 the Board of Governors approved a
transfer from Surplus, by way of grant, of $150 million  charged to reimbursable programs are allocated
to a trust fund administered by IDA to finance an emer-    charges of $21 million ($22 million-June 30, 1996)
genmin Bosnia and Herzegov-    charged to iFc and $1 mlllion ($1 million-June 30,
gency reconstruction program                         1996)s chargedrzeoto 1MICA. 
ina. At June 30, 1997, there was no payable to the Trust  ) charge to MIGA.
Fund. At June 30, 1996, $16 million remained payable.    Contributions to special programs represent grants for
Transfers to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries     agricultural research, the control of onchocerciasis
Debt Initiative Trust Fund: On October 3,1996, the   and other developmental activities.
Board of Governors approved a transfer from Surplus,    NOTE H-TRUST FUNDS
by way of grant, of amounts up to $500 million to the    IBRD, alone or jointly with [DA, administers on behalf of
HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund contingent upon IBRD's    donors including members, their agencies and other
determination that the other creditors of the eligible    I  fud r          f  s       u   which
beneficiary countries have agreed to meet their share       '
of the costs envisaged under the HIPc Debt Initiative.  include the cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt
reduction operations, technical assistance for borrow-
On May 5, 1997, upon management's determination      er nldn  esblt  tuisadpoetpeaa
that creditors holding a substantial portion of the   ers including feasibility studies and project prepara-
debts of countries eligible under the HIPC Debt Initia-    tion,iglbaloandregionasprogras and reserch  and
tiehv agee to mee thi shre of th.otsevs    training programs. These funds are placed in trust and
are not included in the assets of IBRD. The distribution
aged under the Initiative, IBRn's Executive Directors  of trust fund assets by executing agent at June 30,
approved the transfer of the $500 million that had   1                      .
been set aside in Surplus for the HIPC Debt Initiative
Trust Fund. At June 30, 1997, there was no payable to                    1997               1996
the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.                                Total               Total
fiducary   Number   fiduciary  Number
NOTE G-ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND                                  assets   of trust    assets   of trust
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS                                    (in     fund        (in     fund
In fiscal year 1995 the Executive Directors authorized             mil7ions)  accounts   milions)  accounts
expenditures for costs associated with planned staff  IBRD
reductions. The total cost of this program was $112    executed      $ 552    1,622     $ 548    1,314
million, of which $45 million was charged to IDA. At  Recipient
June 30, 1997, $64 million ($26 million-June 30,       executed       1,513    1,236     1,308     935
1996) has been charged against the accrual of $112
million. This accrual included costs associated with job  Total      $2,065    2,858    $1,856    2,249
search assistance, training, outplacement consulting,
pension plan contributions, medical insurance contri-  The responsibilities of IBRD under these arrangements
butions and related tax allowances,                  vary and range from services normally provided under
On March 31, 1997, the Executive Directors approved    its own lending projects to full project implementation
a multiyear program of institutional renewal to improve    including procurement of goods and services. During
IBRD's and IDA's business processes, products and ser-  the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997, IBRD received $15
vices, strengthen their human resources through more  million ($15 million-June 30, 1996) as fees for
skilled and better trained staff, and achieve a higher level    administering trust funds. These fees have been
of development effectiveness. Implementation of this  recorded as a reduction of administrative expenses.
214  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



NOTE I-STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN                               The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status
IBRD has a defined benefit retirement plan (the Plan)      at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996:
covering substantially all of its staff. The Plan also cov-
ers substantially all the staff of IFc and MIGA. Under the  In                                    1997     1996
Plan, benefits are based on the years of contributory                                             1997     199
service and the highest three-year average of pension-      Actuarial present value of benefit
able remuneration as defined in the Plan, with the staff    obligations
contributing a fixed percentage of pensionable remu-          Accumulated benefit obligation
neration, and IBRD contributing the remainder of the             Vested                          $(3,760)  $(3,543)
actuarially-determined cost of future Plan benefits.             Nonvested                          (49)      (36)
The actuarial present values of Plan obligations                    Subtotal                      (3,809)   (3,579)
throughout the fiscal year are determined at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year by the Plan's actuary. All contri-    Effect of projected compensation levels   (1,783)   (1,718)
butions to the Plan and all other assets and income              Projected benefit obligation     (5,592]   (5,297)
held for the purposes of the Plan are held by rBRD sep-     Plan assets at fair value              8,698     7,033
arately from the other assets and income of IBRD, IDA,      Plan assets in excess of projected
lFc and MIGA and can be used only for the benefit of the     benefit obligation                    3,106     1,736
participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries, until all  Remaining unrecognized net
liabilities to them have been paid or provided for. Plan     transition asset                       (78)      (91)
assets consist primarily of equity and fixed income         Unrecognized prior service cost           66        74
securities, with smaller holdings of cash, real estate      Unrecognized net gain from past
experience different from that
and other investments.                                      assumed and from changes in
Net periodic pension cost for IBRD participants for the      assumptions                          (2,881)   (1,719)
fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 andJune 30, 1996           Prepaidpensioncost                   $  213   $   -
consisted of the following components:                         _               _ _ _
In minions                                                 Of the $213 million prepaid at June 30, 1997 ($nil at
1997      1996       June 30, 1996), $184 million is attributable to IRD
($nil at June 30, 1996) and is included in Miscella-
Service cost-benefits earned                              neous Assets on the balance sheet. The remainder has
during the fiscal year             $  189      $ 216     been attributed to IFC and MIGA.
Interest cost un projected benefit
obligation                            342        360     The weighted-average discount rate used in determin-
ing the actuarial present value of the projected benefit
Actual return on plan assets         (1,472)     (917)    obligation was 7.5 percent (7.5 percent-June 30,
Net amortization and deferral          842        437      1996). The effect of projected compensation levels
Net periudic pension (income) cost    $  (99)    $ 96     was calculated based on a scale that provides for a
decreasing rate of salary increase depending on age,
beginning with 1 1.0 percent (13.3 percent-June 30,
1996) at age 20 and decreasing to 5.5 percent (6.8
IBRD has re-evaluated the economic assumptions             percent-June 30, 1996) at age 64. The expected
underlying its pension expense methodology. Based on       long-term rate of return on assets was 9 percent (9
changes arising from this re-evaluation and changes in     percent-June 30, 1996).
the Plan assets at their fair value, IBRD recorded $63
million in pension income for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1997 versus pension expense of $60 million
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996. For the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1997, the employers' cash contri-
bution for all participants in the Plan was $94 million,
of which $49 million is attributable to IBRD and is
included in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997, the manage-
ment fee charged to IDA was reduced by $36 million
representing the portion of the pension income allo-
cated to IDA. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996, a
pension expense of $36 million was included in the
management fee charged to IDA.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 215



NOTE J-RETIRED STAFF BENEFITS PLAN                         The following table sets forth the RsBP's funded status
rsRD has a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) that pro-    at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996:
vides certain health care and life insurance benefits to    In minions
retirees. All staff who are enrolled in the insurance
programs while in active service and who meet certain                                              1997     1996
requirements are eligible for benefits when they reach      Accumulated postretirement benefit
early or normal retirement age while working for IBRD.       obligation
The RSBP also covers the staff of IFC and MIGA.                Retirees                            $(320)   $(293)
Retirees contribute a level amount toward life insur-          Fully eligible active plan participants    (142)    (128)
ance based on the amount of coverage. Retiree contri-          Other active plan participants      (277)    (285)
butions toward health care are based on length of                                                   (739)    (706)
service and age at retirement. IBRD annually contrib-
utes the remainder of the actuarially-determined cost       Plan assets at fair value              1,177     937
for future benefits. The actuarial present values of RSBP   Plan assets in excess of accumulated
obligations throughout the fiscal year are determined        postretirement benefit obligation      438      231
at the beginning of the fiscal year by the RSBP's actuary.  Unrecognized prior service costs         (I0)     (12)
All contributions to the RSBP and all other assets and      Unrecognized net loss from past
income held for purposes of the RSBP are held by IBRD        experience different from that assumed
separately from the other assets and income of IBRD,         and from changes in assumptions         (99)     107
IDA, IFC, and IvIlGA and can be used only for the benefit   Prepaid postretirement benefit cost    $ 329    $ 326
of the participants in the RSBP and their beneficiaries
until all liabilities to them have been paid or provided
for. RSBP assets consist primarily of fixed income and     Of the $329 million prepaid at June 30, 1997 ($326
equity securities.
million-June 30,1996), $296 million is attributable
Net periodic postretirement benefits cost for IBRD par-    to ImRD ($295 million-June 30, 1996) and is included
ticipants for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and     in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet. The
June 30, 1996 consisted of the following components:    remainder has been attributed to IFC and MIGA.
For June 30, 1997, the accumulated plan benefit obli-
In milions                                                 gation (APEo) was determined using health care cost
1997       1996       trend rates of 13.7 percentto 10.8 percent, decreasing
Service cost-benefits earned                              gradually to 5.5 percent in 2009 and thereafter. The
during the fiscal year            $ 38       $ 32        health care cost trend rates used for June 30, 1996
Interest cost on accumulated                              were 14.4 percent to 11.2 percent decreasing gradu-
postretirement benefit                                    ally to 5.5 percent in 2010 and thereafter.
Obligation                          47          45
Actugalreturn on4plan7assets       (200)      (130)      The health care cost trend rates assumption has a sig-
Actual return on plan assets        (200)      (130) 
nificant effect on the amounts reported. To illustrate,
Net amortization and deferral       139          87       increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by
Net periodic postretirement                               one percentage point would increase the APBo at June
benefits cost                     $ 24       $ 34         30, 1997 by $139 million and the net periodic postre-
tirement benefit cost for the fiscal year then ended by
$21 million.
The portion of this cost that relates to IBRD and is       The weighted average discount rate used in determin-
included in Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year    ing the APED was 7.5 percent (8 percent-June 30,
ended June 30, 1997 is $15 million ($22 million- -g  the epet  long-terent                       of retun  30,
June 30, 1 996). The balance has been included in the       1996). The expected long-term rate of return on plan
June30,1996. Te baanc ha bee  inlude inthe  assets was 7.5 percent (8 percent-June 30, 1996).
management fee charged to IDA.
216 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
Price Waterhouse    The Hague       New York
(International Firm)   Beijing     Tokyo
Hong Kong          Wasilington
London
Price Waterhouse                                                         0
July28, 1997
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 186 through 216 of this Report present
fairly, in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development at June 30, 1997 and 1996, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted account-
ing principles in the United States and with Intemational Accounting Standards. These financial state-
ments are the responsibility of management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, including International Standards on Auditing, which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material mis-
statement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclo-
sures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
IBRD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 217



218 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources   220
Statement of Changes in Accumulated Surplus 222
Statement of Cash Flows 223
Summary Statement of Development Credits 224
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions   227
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements   231
Report of Independent Accountants on Special Purpose Financial Statements   239
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 219



STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF
DEVELOPMENT RESOURCES
June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
1997             1996
Applications of Development Resources
NET RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
Cash and investments immediately available for disbursement
Due from banks                                                       $     29         $     15
Obligations of governments and other official entities-
Notes B and F                                                        2,044             2,487
Obligations of banks and other financial institutions-
Notes B and F                                                        3,174             2,257
Net payable on investment securities transactions-
Notes B and F                                                          (55)             (307)
5,192            4,452
Cash and investments not immediately available for disbursement
Due from banks                                                              1                8
Obligations of governments and other official entities-
Notes B and F                                                        2,669             1,413
Obligations of banks and other financial institutions-
Notes B and F                                                          811              273
Net payable on investment securities transactions-
Notes B and F                                                          (14)        _
3,467            1,694
Restricted cash and notes                                                    66               69
Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account
of member subscriptions and contributions                              15,034           21,232
Other resources, net                                                        239              166
Total net resources available for development
activities                                                        23,998           27,613
RESOURCES USED FOR DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
(see Summary Statement of Development Credits,
Notes E and F)
Total development credits                                              96,473           97,450
Less undisbursed balance                                               20,349           24,629
Total resources used for development credits                         76,124           72,821
Total applications of development resources                            $100,122         $100,434
220  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



1997             1996
Sources of Development Resources
Member subscriptions and contributions
(see Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and
Contributions, Note C)
Unrestricted                                                        $ 89,790         $ 90,614
Restricted                                                               286              287
Subscriptions and contributions committed                           90,076           90,901
Less subscriptions and contributions receivable-Note C                   633            1,517
Subscriptions and contributions paid in                             89,443           89,384
Deferred amounts receivable to maintain value of currency holdings        (223)            (2213
Payments on account of pending membership-Note C                             7                7
Transfers from the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development-Note D                                                  5,430            4,831
Cumulative translation adjustment on development credits                 2,373            4,291
Accumulated surplus (see Statement of Changes in
Accumulated Surplus)                                                     1,998            1,790
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and payable
for cash collateral received-Notes B and F                              1,094             352
Total sources of development resources                                $100,122         $100,434
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 221



STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED SURPLUS
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
1997               1996
Income from development credits-Note E                                   $ 537               $ 512
Income from investments-Note B                                              450                 345
Management fee charged by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development-Notes G and H                              (416)               (508)
Amortization of discount on subscription advances                           (13)                 (9)
Changes from operations                                                     558                 340
Effect of exchange rate changes on accumulated surplus                     (350)               (545)
Net changes                                                              208                (205)
Balance at beginning of the fiscal year                                   1,790               1,995
Balance at end of the fiscal year                                        $1,998              $1,790
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
222 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
1997              1996
Cash flows from development activities
Development credit disbursements                                     $(5,836)          $(5,884)
Development credit principal repayments                                 615                563
Net cash used in development activities                           (5,221)           (5,321)
Cash flows from member subscriptions and contributions                   5,115              5,087
Cash flows from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
transfers                                                               599                250
Cash flows from operating activities
Changes from operations                                                 558                340
Less income from restricted investments                                 175                 80
Adjustments to reconcile changes from operations to net cash provided by
operating activities
Amortization of discount on subscription advances                        13                 9
Net changes in other development resources                             148                240
Net cash provided by operating activities                           544               509
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and investments immediately
available for disbursement                                               (297)             (430)
Net increase in cash and investments immediately available
for disbursement                                                          740                95
Cash and investments immediately available for disbursement at
beginning of the fiscal year                                            4,452             4,357
Cash and investments immediately available for disbursement at
end of the fiscal year                                                $ 5,192           $ 4,452
Supplemental disclosure
Decrease in ending balances resulting from exchange
rate fluctuations
Development credits outstanding                                 $(1,918)          $(4,532)
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integralpart of these Statements.
IDA SPECLAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 223



SUMMARY STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Percentage of
Total          Undisbursed   Developmentcredits  development credits
Borrower or guarantor           development credits   development credits'  outstanding  outstanding
Afghanistan                        $  75             $  -             $  75            0.10
Albania                               268              126               142           0.19
Angola                                273              146               127           0.17
Armenia                               241               62               179           0.24
Azerbaijan                            181              112                69           0.09
Bangladesh                          6,870             1,147            5,723           7.52
Benin                                 671              155               516           0.68
Bhutan                                 27                5                22           0.03
Bolivia                             1,169              284               885           1.16
Bosnia and Herzegovina                171               46               125           0.16
Botswana                               11                                11           0.01
Burkina Faso                          779              138               641           0.84
Burundi                               679               98               581           0.76
Cambodia                              170               52               118           0.16
Cameroon                              734              231               503           0.66
Cape Verde                             67               24                43           0.06
Central African Republic              451               37               414           0.54
Chad                                  525               92               433           0.57
Chile                                  10               -                 10           0.01
China                               9,550             1,855            7,695          10.11
Colombia                               10               -                 10           0.01
Comoros                                78               10                68           0.09
Congo, Democratic Republic of       1,253               -              1,253           1.65
Congo, Republic of                    173                5               168           0.22
Costa Rica                              2               -                  2
C6te d'Ivoire                       1,302              281             1,021           1.34
Djibouti                               54                8                46           0.06
Dominica                               15                3                12           0.02
Dominican Republic                     16               -                 16           0.02
Ecuador                                25               -                 25           0.03
Egypt, Arab Republic of             1,444              328             1,116           1.47
El Salvador                            19               -                 19           0.02
Equatorial Guinea                      53                2                51           0.07
Eritrea                                48               20                28           0.04
Ethiopia                            2,008              467             1,541           2.03
Gambia,The                            175                8               167           0.22
Georgia                               255               95               160           0.21
Ghana                               3,375              782             2,593           3.41
Grenada                                10                3                 7           0.01
Guinea                              1,023              152               871           1.14
Guinea-Bissau                         254               36               218           0.29
Guyana                                285               74               211           0.28
Haiti                                 580              123               457           0.60
Honduras                              655              183               472           0.62
India                              22,368            4,651            17,717          23.27
Indonesia                             725               -                725           0.95
Jordan                                 66               -                 66           0.09
Kenya                               2,698              646             2,052           2.70
Korea, Republic of                     77               -                 77           0.10
KyrgyzRepublic                        317              114               203           0.27
Lao People's Democratic Republic      515              164               351           0.46
Lesotho                               234               72               162           0.21
Liberia                               107                3               104           0.14
Macedonia,
former Yugoslav Republic of          181               35               146           0.19
Madagascar                          1,468              318             1,150           1.51
Malawi                              1,669              332             1,337           1.76
Maldives                               48               10                38           0.05
Mali                                1,135              216               919           1.21
Mauritania                            485              111               374           0.49
Mauritius                              16               -                 16           0.02
224 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Percenage of
Total           Undisbursed   Developmentcredits  development credits
Borrower or guarantor             development credits    development credits'  outstanding  outstanding
Moldova                             $    9            $     9            $   -               *
Mongolia                               140                 67                73           0.10
Morocco                                 31                 -                 31           0.04
Mozambique                            1,551              446              1,105            1.45
Myanmar                                744                 -                744           0.98
Nepal                                 1,290              235              1,055            1.39
Nicaragua                              482                127               355           0.47
Niger                                  766                136               630           0.83
Nigeria                                798               422                376           0.49
Pakistan                             4,557              1,034             3,523           4.63
Papua New Guinea                       103                 -                103           0.14
Paraguay                                33                 _                 33           0.04
Philippines                            269                 75               194           0.25
Rwanda                                 692                155               537           0.71
St. Kitts and Nevis                      2                 -                  2
St. Lucia                               13                  5                 8           0.01
St. Vincent and the Grenadines          10                  2                 8           0.01
Sao Tome and Principe                   67                  9                58           0.08
Senegal                              1,433               231              1,202            1.58
Sierra Leone                           394                118               276           0.36
Solomon Islands                         35                  5                30           0.04
Somalia                                414                 -                414           0.54
Sri Lanka                             1,896              380              1,516            1.99
Sudan                                 1,220                -              1,220            1.60
Swaziland                                6                 -                  6           0.01
Syrian Arab Republic                    44                 -                 44           0.06
Tajikistan                              66                 16                50           0.07
Tanzania                              3,047               794             2,253           2.96
Thailand                                99                 -                 99           0.13
Togo                                   649                 80               569           0.75
Tonga                                    4                 -                  4           0.01
Tunisia                                 46                                   46           0.06
Turkey                                 121                 -                121           0.16
Uganda                               2,342               444              1,898           2.49
Vanuatu                                  16                 3                13           0.02
Vietnam                               1,293               806               487            0.64
Western Samoa                           46                  3                43           0.06
Yemen, Republic of                    1,219               298               921            1.21
Zambia                                1,782              386              1,396            1.83
Zimbabwe                               490                159               331           0.43
Subtotal members2                   96,362             20,308            76,054          99.91
West African Development Bank3          61                 21                40           0.05
Caribbean Development Bank4             43                 20                23           0.03
Subtotal regional development banks    104                 41                63           0.08
Other5                                   7                 -                  7           0.01
Total-June 30, 19972               $96,473           $20,49             $76J24          100.00
Total-June 30, 1996                $97,450           $24,629            $72,_821
* Indicates amounts less than 0.005 percent.
NoTEs
1. Of the undisbursed balance at June 30, 1997, IDA has entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse $271 million ($349 mil-
lion-June 30, 1996).
2. May differ from the sum of individual figures shown because of rounding.
3. These development credits are for the benefit of Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.
4. These development credits are for the benefit of Grenada and territories of the United Kingdom (Associated States and Dependen-
cies) in the Caribbean region.
5. Represents development credits made at a time when the authorities on Taiwan represented China in IDA (prior to May 15, 1980).
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 225



SUMMARY STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT CREDITS (continued)
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Maturity Structure of Development Credits Outstanding
Period
July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1998                                                        $  861
July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999                                                            883
July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000                                                          1,033
July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001                                                          1,243
July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002                                                          1,455
July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2007                                                         10,315
July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2012                                                         13,288
July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2017                                                         15,038
July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2022                                                         13,607
July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2027                                                         10,478
July 1, 2027 through June 30, 2032                                                          6,069
July 1, 2032 through June 30, 2037                                                          1,853
July 1, 2037 through June 30, 2042                                                              1
Total                                                                                     $76,124
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
226 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



STATEMENT OF VOTING POWER, AND
SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
June30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Subscriptions and
Nunmber              Percentage         contributions
Memtber1                                of votes               of total           comnmited
Part I Members
Australia                              141,883                 1.31            $ 1,546.7
Austria                                 71,910                 0.67                749.7
Belgium                                126,316                 1.17               1,510.9
Canada                                 325,422                 3.01              3,980.2
Denmark                                104,317                 0.97               1,180.4
Finland                                 68,091                 0.63                598.8
France                                 451,054                 4.18               6,254.2
Germany                                747,221                 6.92              10,407.7
Iceland                                 24,561                 0.23                 16.4
Ireland                                 30,401                 0.28                103.8
Italy                                  295,641                 2.74               3,700.0
Japan                                1,154,286                10.69              19,914.1
Kuwait                                  69,834                 0.65                649.1
Luxembourg                              25,959                 0.24                 47.4
Netherlands                            234,735                 2.17               3,367.2
New Zealand                             30,575                 0.28                105.4
Norway                                 105,156                 0.97               1,116.8
Portugal                                24,702                 0.23                 22.0
Russian Federation                      28,202                 0.26                141.2
South Africa                            30,365                 0.28                 82.2
Spain                                   58,166                 0.54                407.2
Sweden                                 214,153                 1.98               2,320.2
Switzerland2                            95,430                 0.88                979.5
United Arab Emirates                     1,367                 0.01                  5.6
United Kingdom                         540,211                 5.00               6,602.3
United States                        1,650,557                15.29              21,831.5
Subtotal Part I Members3             6,650,515                61.62             87,640.4
Pail II Members
Afghanistan                             13,557                 0.13                  1.3
Albania                                 24,389                 0.23                  0.3
Algeria                                 27,720                 0.26                  5.1
Angola                                  45,662                 0.42                  7.9
Argentina                              112,879                 1.05                 58.0
Armenia                                    584                 0.01                  0.5
Azerbaijan                                 644                 0.01                  0.9
Bangladesh                              61,951                 0.57                  7.2
Belize                                   1,788                 0.02                  0.2
Benin                                    5,297                 0.05                  0.6
Bhutan                                  12,272                 0.11                  0.1
Bolivia                                 30,397                 0.28                  1.4
Bosnia and Herzegovina                  17,871                 0.17                  2.3
Botswana                                23,815                 0.22                  0.2
Brazil                                 176,169                 1.63                 91.9
Burkina Faso                            19,466                 0.18                  0.7
Burundi                                 23,006                 0.21                  1.0
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 227



STATEMENT OF VOTING POWER, AND
SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS (continued]
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Subscriptions and
Number               Percentage         contributions
Membery                                 of votes               of total           committed
Cambodia                                 7,826                 0.07               $  1.3
Cameroon                                19,459                 0.18                  1.3
Cape Verde                               5,012                 0.05                  0.1
Central African Republic                10,920                 0.10                  0.6
.Chad                                   10,990                 0.10                   0.6
Chile                                   31,782                 0.29                  4.5
China                                  217,996                 2.02                 39.7
Colombia                                43,080                 0.40                 22.5
Comoros                                 13,141                 0.12                  0.1
Congo, Democratic Republic of           12,164                 0.11                  3.8
Congo, Republic of                       6,685                 0.06                  0.6
Costa Rica                              12,480                 0.12                  0.3
C6te d'Ivoire                           18,669                 0.17                  1.3
Croatia                                 29,526                 0.27                  5.5
Cyprus                                  28,236                 0.26                  1.1
Czech Republic                          40,537                 0.38                 23.7
Djibouti                                   532                    *                  0.2
Dominica                                15,049                 0.14                  0.1
Dominican Republic                      25,658                 0.24                  0.6
Ecuador                                 23,800                 0.22                  0.8
Egypt, Arab Republic of                 49,528                 0.46                  6.7
El Salvador                              6,244                 0.06                  0.4
Equatorial Guinea                        6,167                 0.06                  0.4
Eritrea                                 23,363                 0.22                  0.1
Ethiopia                                21,353                 0.20                  0.7
Fiji                                     7,206                 0.07                  0.7
Gabon                                    2,093                 0.02                  0.6
Gambia,The                              15,366                 0.14                  0.3
Georgia                                 22,523                 0.21                  0.9
Ghana                                   22,131                 0.21                  3.0
Greece                                  45,138                 0.42                 24.9
Grenada                                 18,999                 0.18                  0.1
Guatemala                               25,634                 0.24                  0.5
Guinea                                  28,087                 0.26                  1.3
Guinea-Bissau                            5,090                 0.05                  0.2
Guyana                                  18,160                 0.17                  1.0
Haiti                                   17,143                 0.16                  1.0
Honduras                                21,570                 0.20                  0.4
Hungary                                 80,902                 0.75                 33.3
India                                  338,901                 3.14                 54.8
Indonesia                              103,697                 0.96                 14.7
Iran, Islamic Republic of               15,455                 0.14                  5.7
Iraq                                     9,407                 0.09                  1.0
Israel                                  35,331                 0.33                  2.6
Jordan                                  24,865                 0.23                  0.4
Kazakhstan                                 806                 0.01                  1.8
Kenya                                   27,105                 0.25                  2.2
Kiribati                                 4,777                 0.04                  0.1
Korea, Republic of                      43,668                 0.40                112.1
Kyrgyz Republic                            580                 0.01                  0.5
228 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Subsciptions and
Number              Percentage         contributions
Member'                                of votes              of total         committed
Lao People's Democratic Republic      11,723                 0.11              $  0.6
Latvia                                   614                 0.01                 0.7
Lebanon                                8,562                 0.08                 0.6
Lesotho                               23,874                 0.22                 0.2
Liberia                               23,379                 0.22                 1.1
Libya                                  7,771                 0.07                 1.3
Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of  15,759               0.15                 1.0
Madagascar                             11,600                0.11                 1.2
Malawi                                27,960                 0.26                 1.0
Malaysia                              41,061                 0.38                 3.6
Maldives                              22,916                 0.21                   8
Mali                                  22,407                 0.21                 1.2
Marshall Islands                       4,914                 0.05                   *
Mauritania                            10,885                 0.10                 0.6
Mauritius                             29,011                 0.27                 1.2
Mexico                                78,854                 0.73               121.3
Micronesia, Federated States of        18,424                0.17                   *
Moldova                                  612                 0.01                 0.7
Mongolia                              24,389                 0.23                 0.3
Morocco                               48,482                 0.45                 4.8
Mozambique                             6,815                 0.06                 1.7
Myanmar                               37,470                 0.35                 2.9
Nepal                                 26,166                 0.24                 0.7
Nicaragua                             24,865                 0.23                 0.4
Niger                                 16,541                 0.15                 0.7
Nigeria                                8,257                 0.08                 4.2
Oman                                  24,870                 0.23                 0.4
Pakistan                              97,461                 0.90                13.5
Panama                                 5,657                 0.05                   *
Papua New Guinea                      13,050                 0.12                 1.1
Paraguay                              11,419                 0.11                 0.4
Peru                                  13,524                 0.13                 2.2
Philippines                            16,583                0.15                 6.5
Poland                               249,421                 2.31                52.0
Rwanda                                17,979                 0.17                 1.0
St. Kitts and Nevis                    5,082                 0.05                 0.2
St. Lucia                             22,535                 0.21                 0.2
St. Vincent and the Grenadines           514                    *                 0.1
Sao Tome and Principe                  4,714                 0.04                 0.1
Saudi Arabia                         377,100                 3.49             2,033.2
Senegal                               28,447                 0.26                 2.2
Sierra Leone                          12,667                 0.12                 1.0
Slovak Republic                       20,893                 0.19                 7.0
Slovenia                              18,956                 0.18                 3.0
Solomon Islands                          518                    *                 0.1
Somalia                               10,506                 0.10                 1.0
Sri Lanka                             44,784                 0.41                 4.0
Sudan                                 23,689                 0.22                 1.3
Swaziland                             11,073                 0.10                 0.4
Syrian Arab Republic                   7,651                 0.07                 1.2
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 229



STATEMENT OF VOTING POWER, AND
SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS (continued)
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
Subscriptions and
Number                   Percentage            contributions
Member]                                        of votes                  of total              committed
Tajikistan                                     20,568                     0.19               $     0.5
Tanzania                                      34,943                      0.32                     2.1
Thailand                                      44,784                      0.41                     4.2
Togo                                           22,455                     0.21                      1.0
Tonga                                          11,380                     0.11                     0.1
Trinidad andTobago                                770                     0.01                      1.6
Tunisia                                         2,793                     0.03                      1.9
Turkey                                         70,837                     0.66                    75.2
Uganda                                        22,438                      0.21                     2.2
Uzbekistan                                        746                     0.01                      1.5
Vanuatu                                        13,821                     0.13                     0.2
Vietnam                                         8,889                     0.08                      1.9
Western Samoa                                  13,061                     0.12                     0.1
Yemen, Republic of                             33,296                     0.31                     2.0
Zambia                                         26,868                     0.25                     3.4
Zimbabwe                                       10,657                     0.10                     5.0
Subtotal Part II Members3                  4,143,008                    38.38                  2,947.4
Total-June 30,1997 2,3                    10,793,523                   100.00                $90,587.8
Total-June 30, 1996                       10,728,072                    100.00               $91,413.0
indicates amounts less than $0.05 million or less than 0.005 percent.
NoTEs
1. See Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements-Note A for an explanation of the two categories of membership.
2. $512.3 million of Switzerland's subscription and contribution have not been included in the Statements of Sources and Applications
of Development Resources at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 since this represents the difference between the total co,financing grants
of $580.1 million provided by Switzerland directly to IDA borrowers as cofinancing grants between the fourth and the ninth replenish-
ments of the IDA resources, and the July 1992 contribution by Switzerland of $67.8 million.
3. May differ from the sum of individual figures shown because of rounding
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
230 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



NOTES TO SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE A-ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND    reported in the financial statements of the periods to
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED                which they relate.
POLICIES
PUTRPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS             Translation of Currencies
IDA's special purpose financial statements are
The International Development Association (IDA) is an    expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the pur-
international organization established on September  pose of summarizing IDA'S financial position and the
24, 1960 to promote economic development in the   results of its operations for the convenience of its
less developed areas of the world included in IDA'S  members and other interested parties.
membership by providing financing on concessionary
terms. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the Inter-   IDA is an international organization which conducts its
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development  operations in the currencies of all of its members.
(IBRD), the International Finance Corporation CiFC),  Development resources and sources of development
and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency  resources are translated at market rates of exchange at
(MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and finan-   the end of the accounting period, except Member
cially independent from IDA, with separate assets and  Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated
liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obli-  in the manner described below. Income and expenses
gations. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote  are translated at the market rates of exchange at the
the economic development of its member countries  dates on which they are recognized or at an average of
primarily by providing loans and related technical  the market rates of exchange in effect during each
assistance for specific projects and for programs of eco-   month. Translation adjustments relating to the revalu-
nomic reform in developing member countries. IFC'S  ation of development credits denominated in Special
purpose is to encourage the growth of productive pn-    Drawing Rights (SDRS) are charged or credited to
vate enterprises in its member countries through loans    Cumulative Translation Adjustment on Development
and equity investments in such enterprises without a  Credits. Other translation adjustments are charged or
member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encour-    credited to the Accumulated Surplus.
age the flow of investments for productive purposes  Member Subscriptions and Contributions
among member countries and, in particular, to devel-
oping member countries by providing guarantees    Recognition
against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in    Member Subscriptions and Contributions for each
its developing member countries.
IDA replenishment are recorded in full as Subscrip-
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING                 tions and Contributions Committed upon effective-
AND RELATED POLICIES                              ness of the relevant replenishment. Replenishments
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these finan-   become effective when IDA has received commit-
cial statements have been prepared for the specific  ments from members for subscriptions and contribu-
purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of  tions of a specified portion of the full replenishment.
member subscriptions and are not intended to be a  Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness,
presentation in accordance with generally accepted  are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions
accounting principles in the United States or with  Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions
International Accounting Standards. These special pur-   and Contributions Committed. These receivables
pose financial statements have been prepared to com-    come due throughout the replenishment period (gen-
ply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of  erally three years) in accordance with an agreed
Agreement of IDA.                                 maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables
when they become due from certain members is con-
IDA'S special purpose financial statements are prepared    ditional upon the respective member's budgetary
in accordance with the accounting policies outlined  appropriation processes.
below.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are
Certain reclassifications of the prior year's infor-mation    settled through payment of cash or nonnegotiable,
have been made to conform to the current period's  noninterest-bearing demand notes. If the receivable is
presentation.                                     settled in cash, the cash is recorded in Cash and
Investments Not Immediately Available for Disburse-
Basis of Accounting                               ment, until such time as it becomes available in accor-
IDA'S special purpose financial statements are pre-  dance with the replenishment agreement. The notes
pared on the accrual basis of accounting for develop-   are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replen-
ment credit income, investment income and        ishment resolution over the disbursement period of
administrative expenses. That is, the effects of trans-    the credits committed under the replenishment and
actions and other events are recognized when they  the cash received is recorded in Cash and Investments
occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or   Immediately Available for Disbursement.
paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 231



In certain replenishments, members have had the    gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars
option of paying all of their subscription and contribu-   into current dollars or any other currency disappeared.
tion amount in cash before it becomes due and receiv-   The Executive Directors of IDA have decided, with
ing a discount. In these cases, IDA and the member  effect on that date and until such time as the relevant
agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the  provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended,
income. The related subscription and contribution is    that the words "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness
recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The cash  in effect on January 1, 1960" in Article II, Section 2(b)
and investments are recorded in Cash and Investments   of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to
Not Immediately Available for Disbursement until the    mean the SDR introduced by the International Mone-
date when it would have become due, at which time it   tary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars
becomes available. The discount is recorded in Sub-  immediately before the introduction of the basket
scriptions and Contributions Receivable and amor-  method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value
tized over the projected encashment period.        being equal to $1.2063 5 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR),
Under the Articles of Agreement and the arrange-   and have also decided to apply the same standard of
Under~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                  ~au toe amounts exrese Agenen  1960 dolar anrthnreee
ments governing replenishments, IDA must take appro-   vant resolutons of theessed n 960 dollars m the rele-
priate steps to ensure that, over a reasonable period of
time, the resources provided by donors for lending by    The subscriptions and contributions provided through
IDA are used on an approximately pro rata basis. As dis-   the third replenishment are expressed on the basis of
cussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes  the 1974 SDP Prior to the decision of the Executive
contribute resources substantially ahead of their pro  Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and con-
rata share. Unless otherwise agreed, IDA does not dis-    tributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market
burse these funds ahead of donors' pro rata shares.  value of the SDP
Cash and Investments Not Immediately Available for    The subscriptions and contributions provided under
Disbursement represents the difference between the
amount contributed and the amount available for us-    themfou rrepleishment  and     are  expressed
bursements on a pro rata basis,                    in members' currencies or SDRS and are payable in
members' currencies. Beginning July 1, 1986, sub-
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded as Sources of  scriptions and contributions made available for dis-
Development Resources and are receivable upon      bursement in cash to IDA are translated at market rates
approval by IBRD's Board of Governors,             of exchange on the dates they were made available.
Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions
sor the purposes of its financial resources, the member-   which had been disbursed or converted into other cur-
ship of IDA is divided into two categories: pt) Part I  rencies were translated at market rates of exchange on
members, which make payments of subscriptions and  dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions
contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies    and contributions not yet available for disbursements
which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in itS ancotiuosntyeavlbefrdsusmns
operations mand be     Pareel d or mex ger, wbih IDAk p- i are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of
operations and (2) Part II members, which make pay-    the accounting period.
ments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in
freely convertible currencies, and the remaining ninety    Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA's Articles of
percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional    Agreement provides for maintenance of value pay-
subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies    ments on account of the local currency portion of the
or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II mem-   initial subscription whenever the par value of the
bers provide a portion of their subscriptions and contri-   member's currency or its foreign exchange value has,
butions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above.   in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a
IDA'S Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenish-    significant extent within the member's territories, so
ment agreements provide that the currency of any Part   long as and to the extent that such currency shall not
11 member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for  have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the cur-
projects financed by IDA and located outside the terri-    rency of another member. The provisions of Article IV,
tory of the member except by agreement between the    Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended
member and IDA. These subscriptions of Part 11 mem-  to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of
bers are recorded as Restricted Cash and Notes.    IDA through the third replenishment, but are not
applicable to those of the fourth and subsequent
Valuation                                          replenishments.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through    The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that
the third replenishment are expressed in terms of "U.S.   settlements of maintenance of value, which would
dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January    result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the
1, 1960" (1960 dollars). Following the aboltion of  basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Exec-
gold as a common denominator of the monetary sys-  utive Directors decide to resume such settlements.
tem and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law  These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts
defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of  Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
232 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



Development Credits                                lished because it is not practicable to determine such
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by    an amount in view of the nature and maturity struc-
member governments or to the government of a terri-   ture of the credit portfolio. Should actual losses occur,
tory of a member (except for development credits   they would be charged against IDA'S Sources of Devel-
which have been made to regional development banks    opment Resources. In a development credit refinanc-
for the benefit of members or territories of members    ing/restructuring (such as that for the heavily indebted
of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a  poor countries (HIPcs), see Note I), the difference
country's per capita income must be below a certain  between the cash received from the development
level and the country may have only limited or no  credit refinancing/restructuring and the carrying value
creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development cred-    of the credits will be reflected separately as a reduction
its carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally   in Sources of Development Resources, and would be
have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year  recognized when binding agreements are signed.
grace period for principal payments. Development   The repayment obligations of IDA's development cred-
credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial  its funded from resources through the fifth replenish-
Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers'  ment are expressed in the development credit
outstanding obligations.                           agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June 1987, the
It is the policy of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all    Executive Directors decided to value those develop-
development credits made to a member government    ment credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar
or to the government of a territory of a member if  on a permanent basis. Development credits funded
principal or charges with respect to any such develop-   from resources provided under the sixth replenish-
ment credit are overdue by more than six months,   ment and thereafter are denominated in SDRS; the prin-
unless IDA management determines that the overdue  cipal amounts disbursed under such development
amount will be collected in the immediate future. In  credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently
addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are    equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to   Investments
that member government will also be placed in nonac-
crual status by IDA. On the date a member's develop-    IDA carries its investment securities and related finan-
ment credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges  cial instruments at market value. Both realized and
that had been accrued on development credits out-  unrealized gains and losses are included in Income
standing to the member which remained unpaid are   from Investments.
deducted from the income from development credits    I.nte-m Trust Fund
of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing devel-
opment credits are included in income only to the  The Interim Trust Fund, established by IDA's Board of
extent that payments have actually been received by  Governors in June 1996, is administered by IDA to help
IDA. On the date a member pays in full all overdue  fund operations during the period July 1, 1996 to
amounts to IBRD and IDA, the member's credits emerge    June 30, 1997 and its funds have a separate legal, pro-
from nonaccrual status, its eligibility for new credits is   curement and accounting status. The Interim Trust
restored, and all overdue charges (including those  Fund became effective on November 14, 1996. Credits
from prior years) are recognized as income from devel-  financed by the Interim Trust Fund are made on the
opment credits in the current period. If collectibility  same terms and conditions as those of IDA credits with
risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of   two exceptions. First, eligibility for procurement under
arrears clearance, or if IBRD or IDA refinances/resched-  the Interim Fund Credits is extended only to nationals
ules nonaccruing loans or credits to a member so that    of countries that either have contributed to the Interim
no debt-service payments remain overdue, its loans or    Trust Fund or are eligible to borrow from IBRD or IDA.
credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual    Second, the Interim Fund Credits are approved by
status, even though its eligibility for new loans or cred-   IDA'S President after consultation with a committee of
its may have been restored. The previously overdue  Executive Directors representing the donors and eligi-
interest and other charges are not recognized as   ble borrowers. Charges paid by borrowers on Interim
income in the period the refinancing/rescheduling  Fund Credits are received by IDA to compensate it for
occurs. After a suitable period of payment perfor-  its services as administrator. The Interim Trust Fund is
mance has passed from the time of arrears clearance, a    expected to be terminated when the credits it financed
decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on    have been substantially disbursed. Upon termination,
a case-by-case basis.                              its assets and liabilities will transfer to IDA.
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to    NOTE B-NVESTMENTS
the poorest countries, therefore there is significant  As part of its overall portfolio management strategy,
credit risk in the portfolio of development credits.  IDA invests in government and agency obligations,
Management continually monitors this credit risk.  time deposits and related financial instruments with
However, no provision for credit losses has been estab-   off-balance sheet risk including futures, forward
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCLL STATEMENTS 233



contracts, covered forward contracts, options, and     exchange of the two currencies in order to recover the
short sales.                                           currency converted.
Government and Agency Obligations:These obliga-        Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder
tions include marketable bonds, notes and other obli-  of the option the right, but not the obligation to pur-
gations. Obligations issued or unconditionally         chase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price
guaranteed by governments of countries require a       within a specified period of time from or to the seller
minimum credit rating of AA if denominated in a cur-   of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a pre-
rency other than the home currency of the issuer, oth-    mium at the outset to the seller of the option, who
erwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by an  then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the
agency or instrumentality of a government of a coun-   price of the financial instrument underlying the
try, a multilateral organization or any other official  option. IDA only invests in exchange-traded options.
entity require a credit rating of AAA.                 The initial price of an option contract is equal to the
premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less
Time Deposits:Time deposits include certificates of    than the contract or notional amount. IDA does not
deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations   write uncovered option  contracts.
issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and
other financial institutions.                          Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held
in IDA'S portfolio at the time of the sale. IDA must pur-
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts    ca  the scrit at te  te  a           r the  risk that
are contracts for delayed delivery of securities or    chase the security at a later date and bears the risk that
money market instruments in which the seller agrees    between the time of the sale and the time the security
to make delivery at a specified future date of a speci-  must be delivered.
fied instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures
contracts are traded on regulated United States and    Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities
intemational exchanges. IDA generally closes out most  Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under
open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity.  which a party sells securities and simultaneously
Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly lim-   agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified
ited to the change in market value of the futures con-    future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transac-
tracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily       tion is called a resale agreement. Securities loans are
settlement of the net cash margin.                     contracts under which securities are lent for a specified
Covered Forwards: Covered forwards are agreements    period of time at a fixed price.
in which cash in one currency is converted into a dif-  A summary of IDA'S investment portfolio by instrument
ferent currency and, simultaneously, a forward         for Investments Immediately Available for Disburse-
exchange agreement is executed providing for a future    ment at June 30, 1997 and June 30,1996 is as follows:
In millions
1997                                   1996
Average     Net gains                  Average      Net gains
daily balance    (losses)              daily balance    (losses)
Carrying    during the     for the     Carrying     duting the     for the
value      fiscal year    fiscalyear   value      fiscalyear    fiscalyear
Government and agency
obligations                  $1,923        $1,928         $20       $2,282         $1,900          $(6)
Time deposits                  3,174         3,254           -         2,257         2,309           -
Futures and forwards                *             1          (2)           1             1            4
Covered forwards                  -              (3)         -                          (1)          -
Options                            *              *          (5)           *             *           (1)
Resale agreements                121           578           -          204            629           -
$5,218        $5,758         $18       $4,744         $4,838          $(3)
Short sales                   $  (53)       $ (100)        $-        $  (34)        $  (32)         $_
Repurchase agreements
and securities loans           (447)         (562)          -          (319)         (281)
* Less than $0.5 million.
234 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



A summary of IDA'S investment portfolio by instrument for Investments Not Immediately Available for Disburse-
ment at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 is as follows:
In nillions
1997                                     1996
Average      Net gains                  Average       Net gains
daily balance    (losses)               daily balance    (losses)
Carrying     during the     for the     Carrying      during the      for the
value       fiscal year    fiscal year  value       fiscal year   fiscal year
Government and agency
obligations                 $2,653         $2,089          $37       $1,320         $ 963           $(1)
Time deposits                     811            422           -          272            327            -
Futures and forwards                1              1           (1)           1              1            4
Covered forwards                   -              (1)         -
Options                                                        ( )
Resale agreements                  15            131           -            93             93           -
$3,480         $2,642         $36       $1,686         $1,384           $ 3
Short sales                   $  (15)        $  (42)         $-        $  (24)        $   (8)          $_
Repurchase agreements
and securities loans          (648)          (416)          -           (33)          (138)
* Less than $0.5 mnillion.
A summary of the currency composition of Investments Immediately Available for Disbursement and Not Imme-
diately Available for Disbursement at June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 is as follows:
In nillions of U.S. dollar equivalent
1997                                          1996
Not                                          Not
Imendiately    immediately                   Immediately    imnediately
available for  available for                 available for  available for
disbursement   disbursement      Total       disbursement    disbursement       Total
Canadian dollars         $  28          $  -           $   28         $  -            $  -           $   -
Deutsche mark             1,691            707          2,398          1,739            321            2,060
French francs              449             289            738           387             167              554
Japanese yen                 67            506            573           542             299              841
Pound sterling             917             324           1,241          425             146              571
U.S. dollars              2,066          1,654          3,720          1,651            753            2,404
Other currencies            -               -                              *                               *
$5,218         $3,480         $8,698        $4,744          $1,686           $6,430
* Less than $0.5 million.
For the purpose of risk management, IDA is party to a   the instruments involve contract value and notional
variety of financial instruments, certain of which      principal amounts that are not reflected in the basic
involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount    financial statements. For both on- and off-balance
reflected in the Statement of Sources and Applications    sheet securities, IDA limits trading to a list of autho-
of Development Resources. Credit risk represents the    rized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have
maximum potential accounting loss due to possible       been established for each counterparty by type of
nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under    instrument and maturity category.
the terms of the contracts. Additionally, the nature of
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 235



The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applica-   Eleventh Replenishment. In June 1996 the Board of
ble, of these financial instruments at June 30, 1997  Governors of IDA adopted resolutions authorizing the
and June 30, 1996 are given below:                Eleventh Replenishment of IDA'S resources. The Elev-
enth Replenishment provides IDA with resources to
In millions                                       fund credits and grants committed during the period
1997      1996    July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1999. The total amount of
Futures and Forwards                              donor contributions pledged during this period,
Long position              $1,880    $ 759    induding supplementary contributions provided by
Short position              2,704    2,840    certain members, is equivalent to SDR 6,929 million.
Credit exposure due to                         The Eleventh Replenishment will become effective
potential nonperformance by                  when IDA has received commitments for subscriptions
counterparties                9        7    and contributions of SDR 3,746 million. As part of the
Options                                           Eleventh Replenishment, an Interim Trust Fund con-
Long position                  46      179    sisting of donor contributions pledged equivalent to
Short position                 -        36    SDR 2,228 million has been established and is adminis-
tered by iDA.
Covered forward contracts                         Membership: In February 1993 the Socialist Federal
Credit exposure due to                         Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) ceased to be a member
potential nonperformance by                  of IDA due to the cessation of its membership in IBRD.
counterparties               -               Four of the five successor Republics-Bosnia and
NOTE C-MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND                    Herzegovina, the Republics of Croatia and Slovenia
CONTRIBUTIONS                                     and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia-
have since become members of IDA. At December 31,
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June    1996, the subscription and contributions allocated to
30, 1997, receivables from subscriptions and contribu-   the other successor country the Federal Republic of
tions was $633 million ($1,517 million-June 30,   Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are included
1996) of which $564 million ($945 million-June 30,    under Payments on Account of Pending Membership.
1996) was due and $69 million ($572 million-
June 30, 1996) was not yet due.                   In May 1992 Switzerland became a member of IDA.
3Before that date Switzerland had contributed to IDA an
Subscriptions and contributions due at June 30, 1997    equivalent of $51 million. As agreed between the
Swiss Confederation and IDA, these grant contributions
in millions                                       were converted to an IDA subscription. Further, during
Amounts initially due on                          the commitment periods between the fourth and the
ninth replenishments of IDA resources, Switzerland
July 1,1996 through June 30, 1997      $329       had cofinanced projects by making available to IDA
July 1, 1995 through June 30, 1996      235       borrowers untied grants in the aggregate amount of
July ', 1994 through June 30, 1995   -        Swiss francs 1,055 million (historical U.S. dollar
July 1, 1994 through June 30,1995                 amount of $580 million). In July 1992, as agreed
June 30, 1994 and earlier                 *       between the Swiss Confederation and IDA, these grant
contributions were converted to an IDA subscription
Total                                  $564       and contribution when Switzerland contributed a fur-
ther $68 million, representing the present value of
future reflows of the cofinancing grants if they had
been made through IDA on IDA'S repayment terms. At
June 30,1997, $512 million ($512 million-June 30,
Subscr1ptions and contributions not yet due at June  1996), representing the difference between the total
30, 1997 will become due as follows:            cofinancing grants of $580 million and the present
In mi1ions                                        value of future reflows of $68 million, have not been
Period                                            included in the Member Subscriptions and Contribu-
tions in the Statement of Sources and Applications of
July 1,1997 through June 30, 1998       $11       Development Resources.
July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999       10       NOTE D-TRANSFERS FROM IBRD
Thereafter                               48      
Thereafter  48  IBRDIs Board of Governors had approved aggregate
transfers to IDA totaling $5,430 million through June
Total                                   $69       30,1997 ($4,831 million-June 30,1996).
236 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



NOTE E-DEVELOPMENT CREDITS                           an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such
At June 30,1997, principal installments of $0.1 mil-    supplementary IDA credits are allocated to countries
AtiJunen30,h1997, principalminstallmentsbof $0.1D mil-    that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each
lion and charges of $0.3 million payable to IDA oni  country's interest payments due that year on its pre-
development credits, other than those referred to in  September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA
the following paragraph, were overdue by more than   supplemental credits, a member country must meet
three months and the aggregate amounts outstanding    IDAplsmelblt creite,a forbending,   must e nelbet
on these development creclits were $414 million.    IDA's eligibihty criteria for lending, must be ineligible
for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan
At June 30, 1997, the development credits made to or    approved within the last twelve months. To receive a
guaranteed by certain member countries with an      supplemental credit from the program, a member
aggregate principal balance outstanding of $3,235 mil-   country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its
lion ($3,183 million-June 30, 1996), of which $130   debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
million ($95 million-June 30, 1996) was overdue,    A summary of cumulative IDA credits committed and
were in nonaccrual status. At such date, overdue     disbursed under this program from inception at June
charges in respect of these development credits totaled    30, 1997 and June 30, 1996 is given below:
$108 million ($86 million-June 30, 1996). If these
development credits had not been in nonaccrual sta-  In millions
tus, income from development credits for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1997 would have been higher by                                  1997_199
$24 million ($24 million-June 30, 1996), which is    Commitments                   $1,526     $1,379
net of charges received from such members during the  Less: undisbursed                91         52
period. A summary of member countries with credits   Ls___91
or guarantees in nonaccrual status is as follows:    Disbursed and
In millions                                          Outstanding                  $1,435      $1,327
June 30, 1997
Principal
and                      NOTE F-FAIR VALUE OF FNANCIAL
Principal   charges  Nonaccrual      INSTRUMENTS
Borrower      outstanding  overdue     since
Investments: Since IDA carries its investments at mar-
With overdues                                       ket value, the carrying amount represents the fair
Afghanistan    $  75      $ 1 1    June 1992       value of the portfolio. These fair values are based on
Congo,                                             quoted market prices, where available. If quoted mar-
Democratic                                        ket prices are not available, fair values are based on
Republic of    1,253       76   November 1993    quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The
Liberia         104         17     April 1988      fair value of short-term financial instruments approxi-
Somalia         414         41     July 1991       mates their carrying value.
Sudan          1,220        81    January 1994
Syrian Arab                                        Development Credits: IDA development credits have a
Republic        44         12     April 1988      significant grant element because of the concessional
Total          3, 110      238                     nature of IDA'S terms. Discounting IDA'S credits using
the standard 10% discount rate of the Development
Without overdues                                    Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for
Bosnia and                                         Economic Cooperation and Development provides an
Herzegovina    125         -    September 1992    estimate for the grant element of IDA credits. Using the
10% DAC discount rate indicates that the typical IDA
Total         $3,235      $238                     credit contains a grant element of 75% to 80% of the
nominal credit amount at the time the credit is com-
mitted. This grant element calculation considers inter-
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and June  est rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the
30, 1996, no development credits came out of nonac-    credits. It does not consider credit risk, portfolio sea-
crual status.                                       soning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences
and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in
Under a program established in September 1988, a     calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these
portion of principal repayments to IDA are allocated on    factors is not practicable. However, the fair value of
an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA credits  Total Development Credits is substantially lower than
to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to bor-   the $96,473 million reflected on the Statement of
row on IBRD terms but have outstanding IBRD loans    Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
approved prior to September 1988 and have in place
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 237



NOTE G-INCOME AND EXPENSES                             the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997, IDA received $11
IDA receives charges paid by borrowers on Interim      million ($10 million-June 30, 1996) as fees for
Fund Credits as compensation for its services as       admimstering trust funds.
administrator.                                         NOTE I-HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR
IDA pays a management fee to IBRD representing its     COUNTRIES
share of the administrative expenses incurred by [BRD.    IDA has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing
The management fee for the fiscal year ended June 30,    the debt problems of a group of countries identified as
1997 was reduced by $72 million allocated from IBRD    HIPCS to ensure that reform efforts of these countries will
upon completion of a review of pension accounting      not be put at risk by unsustainable extemal debt burdens.
expense estimates by IBRD. For the fiscal year ended   Under the initiative, creditors are to provide enhanced
June 30,1996, the management fee included $36 mil-    debt relief for those countries that demonstrated good
lion of pension expense.                               policy performance over an extended period in order to
NOTE H-TRUST FUNDS                                     bring their debt burdens to sustainable levels.
On November 7, 1996, the HmPc Debt Initiative Trust
IDA, alone or jointly with IBRD, administers on behalf of    Fun wa  salse,cntttdb  lnst  ecn
donors, including members, their agencies and other    Fund was established, constituted tofhelp benficie con-
entities, funds restricted for specific uses which     tributed by creditors of HIPCS, to help beneficiaries
include the cofinancing Of IDA lending projects, debt  reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt. The HIPC
reduction operations for IDA members, technical assis-    Debt Initiative Trust Fund is administered by IDA. The
tance for borrowers including feasibility studies and  HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund will pay cash to IDA for
project preparation, global and regional programs and  specific credits in amounts equivalent to the present
research and training programs. These funds are placed    value of the debt servicing obligations of the credits.
in trust and are not included in the development       The total development credits outstanding will be
iesources of IDA. At June 30, 199 7 and June 30, 1996  decreased by the carrying value of the credits sold.
the distribution of trust fund assets by executing agent    The difference between the cash received from the
is as followsn                                         HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund and the carrying value
of the credits will be reflected separately as a reduction
1997                 1996           in Sources of Development Resources.
Total    Number      Total    Number    At June 30, 1997, one IDA borrower has been
fiduciary   of trust    fiduciary   of trust    approved by IDA's Executive Directors for debt relief,
assets    fund       assets    fund      subject to the confirmation of other multilateral credi-
(tn rnnons) accounts  (in rrallons) accounts  sta  he   ilpoie rprinlreifo  hi
IDA                                                   tors that they will provide proportional relief on their
executed    $ 714       583       $235      454      claims and subject to agreement with the borrower.
Recipient                                             Details regarding IDA'S Board approval are as follows:
executed      512       510        537      384
In millons
Total       $1,226     1,093       $772      838                        Estimated            Reduction in
_Net        sources of
Carrying    present      development
Country     value        value        resources
The responsibilities of IDA under these arrangements
vary and range from services normally provided under    U         d
its own lending projects to full project implementation  ganda      $300        $138            $162
including procurement of goods and services. IDA
receives fees for administering trust funds as a reduc-
tion of the Management Fee Charged by IBRD. During
238 THE WORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON SPECIAL
PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Price Waterhouse  The Hague           New York
(International Firm)   Beijing       Tokyo
Hong Kong           Washington
London
Price Waterhouse                                                              H
July 28,1997
President and Board of Governors
International Development Association
We have audited the special purpose Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources as
of June 30, 1997 and 1996, the Summary Statement of Development Credits and the Statement of Voting
Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions as of June 30, 1997, and the related special purpose Statements
of Changes in Accumulated Surplus and of Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996,
expressed in terms of United States dollars, of the International Development Association (IDA), which
appear on pages 220 through 238 of this Report. These financial statements are the responsibility of man-
agement. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International
Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a rea-
sonable basis for our opinion.
The special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of develop-
ment resources and the development credits, voting power, and subscriptions and contributions of IDA to
comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA as described in Note A, and are
not intended to be a presentation in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States or with International Accounting Standards.
In our opinion, the special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, in terms of United States dollars, the sources and applications of development resources as of
June 30, 1997 and 1996, the development credits, voting power, and subscriptions and contributions of
IDA at June 30, 1997 and the changes in its accumulated surplus and its cash flows for the years ended
June 30, 1997 and 1996, on the basis of accounting described in Note A.
This report is intended solely for the information of the Board of Governors, management and members of
IDA. However, under IDA's Articles of Agreement, this report is a matter of public record and its distribu-
tion is not limited.
IDA SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 239



SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE
INTERIM TRUST FUND
Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources   241
Statement of Changes in Accumulated Surplus   242
Statement of Cash Flows   242
Summary Statement of Interim Fund Credits   243
Statement of Contributions   244
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements   245
Report of Independent Accountants on Special Purpose Financial Statements   248
240 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF
DEVELOPMENT RESOURCES
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
Applications of Development Resources
NET RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
Cash and investments immediately available for disbursement
Due from banks                                                                       $    1.1
Obligations of governments and other official entities-
Notes B and D                                                                          0.6
Obligations of banks and other financial institutions-
Notes B and D                                                                         41.3
43.0
Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account
of contributions                                                                      2,538.9
Other resources, net                                                                       (0.4)
Total net resources available for development activities                            2,581.5
RESOURCES USED FOR INTERIM FUND CREDITS
(see Summary Statement of Interim Fund Credits, Notes D and E)
Total Interim Fund Credits                                                            1,628.0
Less undisbursed balance                                                              1,484.4
Total resources used for Interim Fund Credits                                         143.6
Total applications of development resources                                            $2,725.1
Sources of Development Resources
Contributions (see Statement of Contributions)
Contributions committed                                                              $2,708.8
Less unamortized discount on contributions                                                2.0
2,706.8
Less contributions receivable-Note C                                                      3.8
Contributions paid in                                                               2,703,0
Cumulative translation adjustment of Interim Fund Credits                                   0.8
Accumulated deficit (see Statement of Changes in Accumulated
Surplus)                                                                                 (0.7)
Short-term borrowing                                                                       22.0
Total sources of development resources                                                 $2,725.1
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral part ofthese Statements.
INTERIM TRUST FUND SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 241



STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED SURPLUS
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Income from investments-Note B                                                               $ 2.0
Amortization of discount on contribution advances                                             (0.1)
Changes from operations                                                                        1.9
Effect of exchange rate changes on accumulated surplus                                        (2.6)
Net changes                                                                                (0.7)
Balance at beginning of the fiscal year
Balance at end of the fiscal year                                                            $(0 7)
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Cash flows from development activities
Interim Fund Credit disbursements                                                         $(142.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
Net short-term borrowings                                                                  22.0
Donor contributions                                                                       164.0
Net cash provided by financing activities                                            186.0
Cash flows from operating activities
Changes from operations                                                                      1.9
Adjustments to reconcile changes from operations to net cash provided by
operating activities
Amortization of discount on contribution advances                                       0.1
Net changes in other development resources                                              0.2
Net cash provided by operating activities                                               2.2
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and investments immediately
available for disbursement                                                                   (2.4)
Net increase in cash and investments immediately available
for disbursement                                                                             43.0
Cash and investments immediately available for disbursement at
beginning of the fiscal year
Cash and investments immediately available for disbursement at
end of the fiscal year                                                                    $  43.0
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral pant of these Statements.
242  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



SUMMARY STATEMENT OF INTERIM FUND CREDITS
June30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Percentage
Total          Undisbursed        Credits        of credits
Borrower or guarantor                 credits           credits         outstanding    outstanding
Armenia                           $   16.2          $   16.1           $  0.1             0.04
Bosnia and Herzegovina                31.1              25.9               5.2            3.60
Burkina Faso                          45.7              45.7                _               -
Cambodia                              54.9              54.7               0.2            0.13
Chad                                  25.1              25.1               -               -
China                                222.9             222.9               -               -
Comoros                                7.1               7.1               -               -
C6te d'lvoire                         41.3              41.3               -               -
Egypt, Arab Republic of               71.8              71.8                               -
Ghana                                 29.0              29.0                               -
Guinea                                25.1              25.1                               -
India                                250.2             250.2               -                -
Kenya                                 26.9              26.9               -                -
Kyrgyz Republic                       44.6              22.3              22.3           15.53
Madagascar                            96.5              28.7              67.8           47.17
Malawi                                12.1              12.1                                -
Mali                                  81.6              81.6               -                -
Mozambique                            96.3              48.1              48.2           33.53
Senegal                                6.8               6.8               -               -
Sri Lanka                             14.9              14.9               -               -
Uganda                               126.0             126.0
Vietnam                              289.4             289.4                                -
Zimbabwe                              12.4              12.4                                -
Total-June 30,19971               $1,628.0          $1,484.4           $143.6           100.00
NoTE:
1. May differ from the sum of individual figures shown because of rounding.
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF INTERIM FUND CREDITS
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Maturity Structure of Interim Fund Credits Outstanding
Period
July 1,1997 through June 30, 2002                                                          $
July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2007                                                            1.1
July 1,2007 through June 30, 2012                                                            24.6
July 1,2012 through June 30, 2017                                                            23.5
July 1,2017 through June 30, 2022                                                            44.1
July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2027                                                           23.2
July 1,2027 through June 30, 2032                                                            13.6
July 1, 2032 through June 30, 2037                                                           13.5
Total                                                                                      $143.6
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.
INTERIM TRUST FUND SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 243



STATEMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS
June 30, 1997
Expressed in millions of US. dollars
Contributions
Donor                                                                                   deposited
Austraha                                                                              $  83.5
Austria                                                                                   37.5
Belgium                                                                                   58.0
Botswana                                                                                   0.5
Brazil                                                                                     6.7
Canada                                                                                   156.7
Czech Republic                                                                             2.0
Denmark                                                                                   50.2
Finland                                                                                   21.0
France                                                                                   281.5
Germany                                                                                 414.2
Greece                                                                                     1.9
Hungary                                                                                    2.8
Iceland                                                                                    1.3
Japan                                                                                    752.5
Korea, Republic of                                                                        11.8
Luxembourg                                                                                 3.7
Mexico                                                                                     4.6
Netherlands                                                                              222.3
New Zealand                                                                                7.2
Norway                                                                                    69.4
Poland                                                                                     1.3
Portugal                                                                                   7.8
Russian Federation                                                                        11.2
Saudi Arabia                                                                              25.0
Slovak Republic                                                                            1.4
South Africa                                                                               2.9
Sweden                                                                                   110.5
Switzerland                                                                               64.1
United Kingdom                                                                           295.4
Total,                                                                                $2,708.8
NoTE:
1. May differ from the sum of individual figures shown because of rounding.
The Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements are an integralpart of these Statements.
244 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



NOTES TO SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE A-ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND                at the dates on which they are recognized or at an
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED                 average of the market rates of exchange in effect dur-
POLICIES                                           ing each month. Translation adjustments relating to
Purpose                                            the revaluation of Interim Fund Credits denominated
in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are charged or cred-
The Interim Trust Fund, established by the International   ited to Cumulative Translation Adjustment on Interim
Development Association's (IDA) Board of Governors on    Fund Credits. Other translation adjustments are
June 26, 1996, is administered by IDA to help find oper-   charged or credited to the Accumulated Surplus.
ations during the period July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997
and it has a separate legal, procurement and accounting  Contributions
status. The Interim Trust Fund became effective on  Contributions to the Interim Trust Fund are paid in cash
November 14, 1996 when contributions in excess of  and nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes.
SDR 400 million from seven donors were received.   The demand notes are encashed by IDA, on behalf of the
The Interim Trust Fund is expected to be terminated  Interim Trust Fund, on an approximately pro rata basis
when the credits it financed have been substantially  among donors, at reasonable intervals over the projected
disbursed. Upon termination, its assets and liabilities  encashment period (approximately seven years) to meet
will transfer to IDA. Voting rights in IDA on account of    the Interim Trust Fund's operational commitments.
contributions made to the Interim Trust Fund will be  Interim Trust Fund contributions are expressed and are
allocated to contributors upon termination of the  payable in contributors' currencies, freely convertible
Interim Trust Fund.                                currencies and SDRS. Contributions made available for
Summary of Significant Accounting                  disbursement in cash are translated at market rates of
and Related Policies                               exchange on the dates they were made available. Con-
tributions not yet available for disbursements are
Due to the nature of the Interim Trust Fund, these  translated at market rates of exchange at the end of
financial statements have been prepared for the specific   the accounting period.
purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of
contributions and are not intended to be a presentation    Interim Fund Credits
in accordance with generally accepted accounting prin-   Interim Fund Credits finance specific development
ciples in the United States or with International  projects or programs. The policies, practices and proce-
Accounting Standards. These special purpose financial    dures governing the allocation of Interim Trust Fund
statements have been prepared consistent with Article   resources, the selection and appraisal of projects or pro-
VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA,    grams to be financed out of such resources and the
and Section 2(e) of the Board of Governors' Resolution    approval and administration of Interim Fund Credits,
establishing the Interim Trust Fund.               including the terms and conditions thereof, are the same
The Interim Trust Fund's special purpose financial  as those applicable with respect to development credits
statements are prepared in accordance with the     made under IDA's Eleventh Replenishment with two
accounting policies outlined below.                exceptions. First, eligibility for procurement under the
Interim Fund Credits is extended only to nationals of
Basis of Accounting                                countries that either have contributed to the Interim Trust
The Interim Trust Fund's special purpose financial  Fund or are eligible to borrow from the International Bank
statements are prepared on the accrual basis of    for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) or IDA. Sec-
accounting for investment income. That is, the effects    ond, the Interim Fund Credits are approved by iDA's Presi-
of transactions and other events are recognized when  dent after consultation with a committee of Executive
they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received    Directors representing the donors and eligible borrowers.
or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records  Interim Fund Credits are denominated in SDRs and are
and reported in the financial statements of the periods    to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent
to which they relate.                              to the SDRS disbursed. Principal repayments of Interim
Translation of Currencies                          Fund Credits will be part of the resources of the
Interim Trust Fund until it is terminated.
The Interim Trust Fund's special purpose financial state-
ments are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for  It is the policy of the Interim Trust Fund to place in non-
the purpose of summarizing the Interim Trust Fund's  accrual status all Interim Fund Credits made to a mem-
financial position and the results of its operations for the    ber government or to the government of a territory of a
convenience of its donors and other interested parties.  member if principal or charges with respect to any such
Interim Fund Credits are overdue by more than six
The Interim Trust Fund conducts its operations in the    months, unless IDA management determines that the
various currencies contributed to it. Development  overdue amount will be collected in the immediate
resources are translated at market rates of exchange at   fuLiture. In addition, if loans by IBRD or development cred-
the end of the accounting period. Contributions are  its by IDA to a member government are placed in nonac-
translated in the manner described below. Income and    crual status, all Interim Fund Credits to that member
expenses are translated at the market rates of exchange    government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by
INTERIM TRUST FUND SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 245



the Interim Trust Fund. On the date a member's Interim  A summary of the currency composition of Invest-
Fund Credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges  ments Immediately Available for Disbursement at
that had been accrued by IDA, as administrator, on   June 30, 1997 is as follows:
Interim Fund Credits outstanding to the member which
remained unpaid are deducted from IDA's income from   In millions of US. dollars equivalent
development credits of the current period. Charges on
nonaccruing development credits are included in IDA'S  Canadian dollars                          $ 5.5
income only to the extent that payments have actually  Canadin dars                              $1.5
been received by IDA. On the date a member pays in full    Deutsche mark                          11.7
all overdue amounts to IBRD, IDA and the Interim Trust  French francs                              6.9
Fund, the member's Interim Fund Credits emerge from   Japanese yen                                10.4
nonaccrual status, its eligibility for new Interim Fund  Pounds sterling                           7.4
Credits is restored, and all overdue charges (including                                          $41.9
those from prior years) are recognized by IDA as income                                          $41.9
from development credits in the current period. If col-
lectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the
time of arrears clearance, or if IBRD, IDA or the Interim  NOTE C-DONOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Trust Fund refinances/reschedules nonaccruing loans,  At June 30, 1997, receivables from contributions was
development credits or Interim Fund Credits to a mem-    $3.8 million, all of which was not yet due. Subscrip-
ber so that no debt-service payments remain overdue, its   tions and contributions not yet due at June 30, 1997
loans, development credits and Interim Fund Credits  will become due as follows:
may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status,
even though its eligibility for new loans, development
credits or Interim Fund Credits may have been restored.    In mulions
The previously overdue interest and other charges are  Period
not recognized as income by IDA in the period the refi-  July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1998       $0.8
nancing/rescheduling occurs. After a suitable period of  July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999         0.8
payment performance has passed from the time of      Thereafter                                    2.2
arrears clearance, a decision on the restoration of accrual    Total                              $3.8
status is made on a case-by-case basis.              Totl_3_
Investments
The Interim Trust Fund carries its investment securi-  NOTE D-FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL
ties and related financial instruments at market value.    INSTRUMENTS
Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are    Investments: Since the Interim Trust Fund carries its
included in Income from Investments.                 investments at market value, the carrying amount rep-
NOTE B-INVESTMENTS                                   resents the fair value of the portfolio. These fair values
are based on quoted market prices, where available.
Interim Trust Fund resources are invested in time    The fair value of short-term financial instruments
deposits including certificates of deposit, bankers'  approximates their carrying value.
acceptances, and other obligations. A summary of the
Interim Trust Fund's investment portfolio by instru-  Interim Fund Credits: Interim Fund Credits have a
ment for Investments Immediately Available for Dis-  significant grant element because of the concessional
bursement at June 30, 1997 is as follows:            nature of their terms. Discounting the Interim Fund
Credits using the standard 10% discount rate of the
In milions                                           Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the
Average    Net gains     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop-
daily balance   (losses)  ment provides an estimate for the grant element of
Carrying    during the  for the
value      period      period       Interim Fund Credits. Using the 10% DAc discount
Government                                          rate indicates that the typical Interim Fund Credit
and agency                                         contains a grant element of 75% to 80% of the nomi-
obligations    $ 0.6       $ 4.2        $-         nal credit amount at the time the credit is committed.
This grant element calculation considers interest rates,
Time deposits    41.3        44.4          -         maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. It
does not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, mul-
$41.9       $48.6        $          tilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other
risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating
fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not
practicable. However, the fair value of Total Interim
Fund Credits is substantially lower than the $1,628.0
million reflected on the Statement of Sources and
Applications of Development Resources.
246  THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



NOTE E-INTERIM FUND CREDITS                       NOTE F-INCOME AND EXPENSES
At June 30, 1997, Interim Fund Credits made to or  Charges paid by borrowers on Interim Fund Credits
guaranteed by Bosnia and Herzegovina with an aggre-   are paid to IDA as compensation for its services as
gate principal balance outstanding of $5.2 million,  administrator of the Interim Trust Fund.
none of which was overdue, were in nonaccrual status,
consistent with IBRD and IDA policy by which all Bosnia
and Herzegovina debt is in nonaccrual status.
INTERIM TRUST FUND SPECIAL PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 247



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON SPECIAL
PURPOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Price Waterhouse  The Hague             New York
(International Firm)   Beijing         Tokyo
Hong Kong            Washington
London
Price Waterhouse                                                               0
July 28, 1997
President and Board of Governors
International Development Association,
as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund
We have audited the special purpose Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources, the Sum-
mary Statement of Interim Fund Credits, and the Statement of Contributions as of June 30, 1997, and the related
special purpose Statements of Changes in Accumulated Surplus and of Cash Flows for the year ended June 30,
1997, expressed in terms of United States dollars, of the Interim Trust Fund, which appear on pages 241 through
247 of this Report. These financial statements are the responsibility of management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Stan-
dards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assess-
ing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development
resources and the Interim Fund Credits, and contributions of the Interim Trust Fund to comply with Section 2(e)
of the Board of Governors' Resolution of International Development Association (IDA) and Article VI, Section
I I (a) of the Articles of Agreement as described in Note A, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States or with International Accounting Standards.
In our opinion, the special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, in
terms of United States dollars, the sources and applications of development resources, and the Interim Fund Cred-
its, and contributions of the Interim Trust Fund at June 30, 1997 and the changes in its accumulated surplus and
its cash flows for the year then ended, on the basis of accounting described in Note A.
This report is intended solely for the information of the Board of Governors, IDA's management as Administrator
of the Interim Trust Fund, contributors to and borrowers from the Interim Trust Fund, and members of IDA.
However, under IDA's Board of Governors' Resolution establishing the Interim Trust Fund, this report is included
in the Annual Report of the Executive Directors to the Board of Governors of IDA and is therefore a matter of
public record and its distribution is not limited.
248 THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 1997



INDEX
Adjustment lending, 117-118, 119 (table)                      Gender, 12,21-2,62
Administrative Budget, 3, 79, 128-9                           Global Coalition for Africa, 45
African Development Bank, 2 (box), 27, 45                     Global Environment Facility (GEF), 25, 27, 54, 73,82-3, 124, 128
Africa region, 37-45, 117, 122, 123,140 (box)                 Governance, 60, 78-9
AIDS, 18, 35, 36, 44, 62                                      Grameen Bank, 63 (box)
Annual Report on Portfolio Performance, 115                   Guarantees (World Bank guarantees), 10, 29, 32-3, 60, 87,
Argentina, 1, 18, 19, 25, 26, 74, 76, 77, 81, 116, 118          118, 122
Asian Development Bank, 24, 56, 59                            Guatemala, 76, 79 (box)
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), 54                  Headquarters construction, 131
Banking Sector, 6 (see also Financial sector)                 Health, nutrition, and population, 7, 17, 17 (figure), 18
in Central and Eastern Europe, 6, 68, 69                  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HiPc) Debt Initiative, 1,
in EastAsia, 48, 55                                         2 (box), 11, 40, 113, 125, 133
in Latin America, 77-8                                    Human development, 17-21
in South Asia, 60                                             in South Asia, 62
Bosnia and Herzegovina, 6, 10, 65, 66, 73,122, 123, 126, 135      in Latin America and the Caribbean, 75
Bulgaria, 6, 19, 65, 68                                       Human Development Network, 7, 21, 62, 75
Business Partnership Center, 6                                Human resources 3, 130
Capacity building, 25, 84, 126-7                              Implementation completion reports (ICRs), 4, 115
in Africa, 1, 10,39, 45 (box)                             India, 10, 18, 25, 27, 35, 118, 126 (box)
China, 10, 21, 25, 33, 35, 36, 44, 57, 79, 130, 131           InfoDev (Information for Development) Program, 34
Cofinancing, 121-3, 124 (table)                               Infrastructure, private participation and, 7, 31-2, 32 (table)
Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE), 11-12,             in East Asia and the Pacific, 49-5, 54 (box)
19, 115                                                         in the Middle East and North Africa, 87
Communications, 21, 26, 35, 36                                    in South Asia, 61
Consultant Trust Fund, 125, 126                               Inspection Panel, 127, 128 (box)
Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research    Institutional Development Fund (IDF), 81 -2, 127
(CGIAR), 28-9                                                 Inter-American Development Bank, 2 (box), 24, 76, 122
Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP), 34           Interim Trust Fund, see International Development Association
Corruption, 4-5, 10, 51, 64, 79                               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Country Assistance Strategies (cAss), 6, 11, 13, 19, 22, 28, 39,  assistance to the poorest countries, 9, 9 (figure)
56, 61, 83, 89, 114, 116, 129                                   borrowings, 133, 135-8
Dams, 116 (box), 117                                              capital subscriptions, 139
Debt see HIPC Debt Initiative                                     interest waivers, 134
Development Committee, 2 (box)                                    Lending:
Development effectiveness, 4, 11-2,34, 114-7                            commitments, 5 (figure), 8 (table), 117
Disbursements, by source of supply 118-121                              disbursements, 5 (figure), 8 (table), 118, 134
East Asia and the Pacific Region, 48-56                           lending rate, 134
Economic Development Institute (EDM), 5, 6, 15, 19, 22, 22        loans in non-accrual status, 135
(box), 25,30, 36, 44-5, 47, 55, 59-60, 66, 68, 69, 73, 79, 82,  sigle-currency loan program, 9, 133, 134
84, 113, 129, 130liudastmaaeet7,1413
Education, 87-8                                                   membership, 9
lending for, 17, 17 (figure), 18-9, 51-3                      net income, 133, 141
of girls 19, 28, 53, 62, 88                                   portfolio concentration management, 133-4
Emergency assistance and reconstruction, 6                        provision for possible loan losses, 134, 138-9
and Bosnia, 6, 67, 73                                         reserves, 139
Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), 34       International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Environment, 24-8, 35, 53-5, 73, 82-3, 88-9                     Tropics (IcRisAT), 28 (box)
(see also Global Environment Facility)                   International Development Association (iDA)
Environmental assessments, 24, 25                                 assistance to the poorest countries, 9, 9 (figure)
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development              commitment authority, 139
Network, 7                                                      comtntment fee, l
Europe and Central Asia Region, 65-73, 113, 117,123               eleventh replenishment, 139-141
European Union (Eu), 1, 45, 65, 67-8, 73, 74, 86, 122, 123        Interim Trust Fund, 117, 139 (box), 141
Executive Directors, 10-12                                        Lending:
see also Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE)              commitments, 4, 5 (figure), 8 (table), 117
disbursements, 4, 5 (figure), 8 (table), 118
Field offices see Resident Missions                               membership,9
Financial sector, 1, 6, 10, 31 (see also Banking sector)          review  of the 1994-96 (IDA- IO) program, 140 (box)
in Latin America and the Caribbean 77-8                   International Finance Corporation, 6, 25, 29, 31, 38,41,49, 56,
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Development          60-1, 66, 69, 75, 76, 78, 85, 86, 87
Network, 7                                                  International Labour Organization, 14, 21
Focus Initiative, 28, 40, 80                                  International Monetary Fund, 2 (box), 5, 10, 31, 37, 40,
Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), 29, 30, 33, 41, 78  68-9, 122, 130
Forest Market Transformation Initiative, 15                   Internet, 6, 14, 20, 22, 45, 128
INDEX 249



Japan, 7, 34, 35, 59, 122, 123, 124                                Resident missions, 7, 14, 56, 63-A, 73, 79, 81, 83, 91, 113,
see also Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (ruxRD)     130, 131
Knowledge Management, 3, 7,319, 20, 22, 26-7, 36, 41-5, 113,      Road Maintenance Initiative, 45-6
130                                                             Rural development, 7, 10, 2 7-8
in Africa, 40
Labor market issues, 51                                                in South Asia, 62
Latin America and the Caribbean Region, 74-83                      Russia, 6, 10, 16, 19, 32, 68, 69 (box), 72Ri1626b73
Lending- see Intemeat tional Bank for Reconstruction and          Russia, 6,10,16,19,32,68,69 (box), 72, 73, 114
Development and International Development Association           Safety nets, 1, 13, 17, 72-3
Learning and Leadership Center, 130                                Sector investment programs, 39-40, 47
Market transformation initiative, 26                               Sector strategy papers, 7, 19
see alo Forst Maket Tansfomatio InitativeSingle-currency loans see International Bank for Reconstruction
Mexican crisis (1994-95) effects of, 57, 74                           al aesslopments, 23
Microcredit, 62, 63 (box)                                          Social dimentsion odevelpent, 10, 22-4
Microenterprises, 40-4 1                                           Social densionsofSevelopmentTroup, 11, 23
Middle East and NorthAfrica Region, 84-91, 122, 123                Social proecone,t 17,k 17G(figur, 19, 692(box)
Multilateral Insurance Guarantee Agency (MbGA), 29, 30, 38,        Social safety nets, see safety nets
41, 49, 56, 60-1, 65, 75, 78, 85                                Social security reform, 76, see also pension systems rejorms
Net transfers                                                      South Asia region, 5 7-64, 122
Africa region, 41 (table)                                     Special Program of Assistance for Africa (sPA), 37, 121-2
East Asia and Pacific region, 51 (table)                      Staff training see Learning and Leadership Center
South Asia region, 60 (table)                                 Staffing, 131
Europe and Central Asia region, 67 (table)                    Strategic Compact, 14, 11, 24, 31, 38, 113, 129
Latin America and Caribbean region, 78 (table)                Task Force on Multilateral Development Banks, 113
Middle East and North Africa region, 88 (table)               Technical assistance, 30, 31, 91, 124, 126-7
Networks, 113                                                     Telecommunications, 3 0, 3 2
see also Human Development Netwvork, Environmentally and      Trust funds, 34, 121, 124-6
Socially Sustainable Development Network, Finasnce, Private
Sector and Infrastructure Development Network, and Poverty    Uganda, 2 (box), 22, 25, 40, 41,U46
Reduction and Economic Management Network                     Ukraine, 1, 19, 30, 32, 35, 65, 69, 72
Nongovernmental organizations (NGns), 6, 14-7, 15 (figure),        United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), 14, 21, 35
16 (table), 25, 38, 40,447, 56, 62, 67, 72, 127                 United Nations Development Programme, 14, 21, 34, 35,
NiGO haison coordinators, 6, 14, 81                                  124, 127
NGo-World Bank Committee, 15                                       Vietnam, 20, 25, 48, 50, 55, 56, 118, 127
Operations evaluation, 7, 12, 63, 115-7, 128                      West Bank and Gaza, 29, 84, 85, 86, 88,W90 (box), 118
Participation in Bank activities, 15, 19, 24, 62, 81-2, 89-90          Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank, 8, 84, 90 (box)
sn evaluation, 11 5                                           World Development Indicators, 4, 36, 113
Partnerships, 3, 5-6, 15, 16-7, 21, 25-6, 34, 35-6, 41, 56, 59,    World Developsent Report, 14, 3 5
72, 82, 113                                                     World Food Summit, 28
Pension reform, 21, 56, 67, 69 (box)                              World Health Organization (wi-on), 21, 35
see also social security system reform                        World Links for Development, 45
Performance monitoring indicators, 1 1344                         World Trade Orgaenization (wTO), 5
Policy and Human Resource Development Fund, 125,
126 (box)
Portfolio improvement
in Africa, 46-7
in EastAsia and Pacific, 55-6
in East Europe and Central Asia, 73
in MENA, 90-1
In Latin America and the Caribbean, 79-83
in South Asia, 62-4
Portfolio improvement program, 4, 114
Poverty assessments, 6, 13, 22
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network, 7, 13
Private sector development, 3, 29-31, 30 (figure)
in Africa, 40-1
in South Asia, 60-1
in Latin America and the Caribbean, 78
Program of targeted interventions (PTI), 13, 14 (table), 92-112
Projects at risk, 4, 114
Public expenditure reviews (PERs), 44, 69
Public Information Center (Pic), 127-8
Quality Assurance Group, 114-5
Research program, 34-6, 44, 56
250  THEWORLD BANKANNUAL REPORT 1997






THE WORLD BANK
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433. U.S.A.
TELEPHONE         (202) 477- 1 234
FACSIMILE        (202) 477-6391
TELEX             MCI 64145 Worldbank
MCI 248423 Worldbank
CABLE ADDRESS    INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON DC
WORLD WIDE WEB  http://www.worldbank.org/
E-MAIL            Books@worldbank.org
ISBN 0-8213-3760-2



