10917
INTERNATIONAL
BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Ix( )t I J R'l -I .1 A NN 19 49 1  I 41' I'() R I
1 9 4 8- 1-'34'3



I



FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
1 948-1949
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
WSINGT1NA
WASHINGTON, D. C.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
September 13, 1949
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have been
authorized by the Executive Directors to submit to the Board of
Governors this Fourth Annual Report of the Bank. The report
includes financial statements as of June 30, 1949, based on an audit
of the accounts of the Bank made pursuant to Section 19 of the
By-Laws. It also incorporates, pursuant to Section 19 of the By-
Laws, an administrative budget for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1950.
While the financial statements cover the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1949, the remainder of the report reflects the activities
of the Bank for the period from September 1, 1948, to August
20, 1949.
Sincerelv yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President.
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
INTRODUCTION .......................................................................5
ROLE OF THE BANK ....................................................................... 7
Economic   Development  ......................................................................                                                       7
Nature  of  the  Problem  ......................................................................                                              7
Technical Assistance .......................................................................  10
Financial Assistance  ......................................................................                                                12
European    Recovery   Program  ......................................................................                                             14
LOAN   ACTIVITIES   ......................................................................                                                                  16
Loans Granted  and  Loan  Discussions ......................................................................                                        16
Latin  America  ......................................................................    16
Europe  ........................................................ .                                                     ............    24
Asia, Africa  and  the  AMiddle  East ......................................................................                                29
Results  of  Operations  and  Use  of  Loan   Proceeds ........................................... ..................   34
MARKETING ACTIVITIES ............................................                                                                                           35
Additions to Loanable Resources ............................................                                                                       35
Market Record of Bank Obligations ............................................                                                                      36
Legislative Program  ............................................   37
MISCELLANEOUS ............................................. 38
Management and  Organization .............................................                                                                         38
Relationship with Other International Organizations                                                 ..................................  38
Advisory Council                                      ..3..........................                                            .......... 39
Training Program ............................................. 39
Membership   and   Subscriptions .............................................                                                                     40
Financial  Statements  and   Reports .............................................                                                                 40
Administrative Budget .............................................  40
Additional Reports to Board of Governors                                              ...........................................  40
Appendices ............................................. 40
A.   Balance  Sheet as of June 30, 1949 ...........................................................                                         42
B.  Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the Fiscal Years
Ended  June  30, 1948  and  June  30, 1949 ...........................................................                              43
C.    Statement  of Loans  as  of June  30, 1949 ...........................................................                               44
D.  Statement of Members' Currencies Held by the Bank as of June 30,1949 .......  45
E.  Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power of
Members  as  of  June  30,  1949 .......................................................                                       46-47
F.    Notes  to  Financial  Statements .......................................................                                        48-49
G.    Opinion   of  Independent  Auditor .......................................................                                           50
H.   Administrative   Budget   .......................................................    51
1. Governors and Alternates as of August 20, 1949 .52
J.  I'oting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of August
20, 1949.                                                                                                                            53
K. Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Powers as of
August 20, 1949 .54
L.    Principal Officers of the  Bank  as of August 20, 1949 ................................ ..........   56



INTRODUCTION
THIS FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT of the International Bank for Reconstruction and De-
velopment describes the work of the Bank during the period from September 1, 1948 to
August 20, 1949. During this period, the Bank granted eight loans, aggregating
$191,600,000, for productive projects in Belgium, Brazil, Colombia, Finland, India, Mexico
and The Netherlands. These loans, however, give only a partial indication of the extent of
the Bank's activities. As the report shows, additional projects in about 20 member coun-
tries are under active study and investigation. Discussions are likewise proceeding with a
number of other countries to determine how the Bank can help most constructively in the
solution of their problems. And there has been a substantial expansion of the amount of
technical assistance of various kinds furnished by the Bank to its member nations at
their request.
The Bank's bonds have had a very satisfactory market record. As a result of
legislative or administrative action in over 40 states, the bonds are now eligible invest-
ments for most institutional investors in the United States and there is at present a sub-
stantial unsatisfied demand for the bonds. Congressional authorization has been obtained
for national banks in the United States to deal in the Bank's bonds and for the Bank to
sell its own bonds or bonds guaranteed by it without registration with the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission. The Bank has also had a satisfactory earnings
record which has enabled it to make a promising start in building up reserves.
The Bank cannot and should not be expected to provide the answer to all or even
a major part of the world's financial ills. It is beyond both the purpose and the power of
the Bank, for example, to cure the "dollar shortage," or to assure the maintenance
of full employment throughout the world, or to satisfy short-term budgetary and balance
of payments requirements. While the operations of the Bank do contribute in some measure
to the solution of these general problems, its essential objective is narrower and more
precise; its basic mission is to assist its member countries to raise production levels and
living standards by helping to finance long-term productive projects, by providing tech-
nical advice and by stimulating international investment from other sources. That is a
broad enough field of activity for all the resources, vigor and imagination which the Bank
can possibly bring to bear. As shown by the record of activities set forth in this report,
the Bank has already made a substantial contribution in this field and the groundwork
has been laid for increasingly significant action in the future.
[5 l






ROLE OF THE BANK
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
An outstanding feature of the year under   program succeeds in expanding the techni-
review has been the increased attention   cal and financial resources available to the
given to the problem of economic develop-   underdeveloped countries, it will assist and
ment, not only by the Bank but also by   strengthen the Bank in carrying out its de-
other international organizations and na-   velopment responsibilities.
tional governments, and in business and    The Bank's basic objectives in this ficld
financial circles as well.               are essentially the same as those of the
From the standpoint of the underdevel-   Point IV program. For an understanding
oped countries, the need to expand produc-   of the common task of economic develop-
tion and thereby to raise living standards is  rnent, therefore, it may be useful to set
obvious. But the problem has direct and   forth briefly some of the general conclu-
important implications for the more ad-   sions which the Bank has reached as a
vanced nations as well. This is not only  result of its activities in this field.
because the general conditions of poverty
in the underdeveloped areas have created   Nature of the Problem
political and social tensions which, if un-  Both the need for development and the
relieved, may have serious and widespread   potentialities of development are plainly
consequences. It is also because full em-   revealed by a single set of statistics. Accord-
ployment and effective utilization of the   ing to estimates prepared by the Statistical
resources of the more developed countries   Office of the United Nations, average in-
depend largely upon a continually expand-   come per head in the United States in 1947
ing world trade; increased production in   was over $1400, and in another 14 coun-
the underdeveloped areas is one of the prin-  tries ranged between $400 and $900. In the
cipal means to this end.                 same year, in 25 other nations and most of
These considerations were mentioned   the Non-Self-Governing Territories, con-
by the President of the United States when,  taining together substantially more than
in his inaugural address on January 20,   half the world's population, average income
1949, he announced that the United States   was less, and sometimes much less, than
intended to adopt, as a fourth major point   $100 per person. The size of this gap indi-
in its foreign policy, a new program of as-  cates not only the urgency of raising stand-
sistance for the underdeveloped areas. This  ards of living in the underdeveloped coun-
program, which the President stated was  tries, but also the great possibilities which
to be carried out to the fullest extent prac-   exist for doing so, for the economic ad-
ticable through international channels, has   vances that have already been made in the
become popularly known as "Point IV."   more developed countries are a tangible
As of the date of this report the full impli-  demonstration of what can be achieved if
cations of the Point IV program, and the   capital and modern techniques are applied
precise method of its implementation, are   effectively to develop natural resources
not yet entirely clear. From the standpoint   and increase the productivity of labor.
of the Bank, however, the program  is of   Through the Bank and other interna-
vital interest, for, to the extent that the   tional organizations, as well as through na-
[ 7 ]



tional agencies, substantial technical and   large expenditure of money, technical help
financial assistance has already been made   in such matters as training teachers and
available to the underdeveloped countries   doctors, establishing and operating schools
and efforts along these lines are being in-   of many different kinds, improving sanitary
tensified. For such assistance to be of max-   and public health facilities and eradicating
imum use, however, the problems of de-  such wide-spread and debilitating diseases
velopment must be properly set forth.   as malaria, can do as much, in the long
There is no quick and easy way to raise   run, as any other single factor towards
production levels and living standards; in-   creating the conditions necessary for accel-
deed, to raise hopes of a spectacular trans-   erated economic progress, particularly in
formation may only invite disillusionment  the under-populated countries.
and failure.                                 A second important set of limiting fac-
The Bank is convinced that, through its  tors is political in character. In some un-
loans and its efforts to stimulate the flow    derdeveloped countries, frequent changes
of capital from other sources, it can help  in government result in economic and
substantially to speed the rate of develop-   financial insecurity and prevent the con-
ment. But it must be emphasized that it  sistency of policy ard continuity of admin-
is only the amount of productive invest-  istration that are so important for develop-
ment which takes place, and not the mere   ment. The level of competence in public
availability of money, which is important.  administration is also frequently unsatis-
Money alone is no solution; in fact, loans   factory. Moreover, any government, how-
for unproductive purposes or for projects  ever good, is apt to be forced by political
which are poorly planned or executed can   necessity to put more emphasis on short-
be a positive detriment. Perhaps the most  run objectives which promise immediate
striking single lesson which the Bank has   advantage than on the long-run develop-
learned in the course of its operations is   ment of the country, particularly since that
how limited is the capacity of the under-   normally entails some sacrifice of imme-
developed  countries to  absorb  capital   diate benefits and may adversely affect im-
quickly for really productive purposes.    portant local  interests.  Certainly  no
There are many reasons why develop-   amount of external aid, technical or finan-
ment is necessarily a gradual process. Of   cial, can replace the essential will and
fundamental importance is the low level of   determination on the part of the govern-
education and health prevailing in most   ment of the country concerned to adopt the
underdeveloped countries. Without intel-  often difficult and politically unpopular
ligent, skilled and vigorous manpower, the   economic and financial measures necessary
economic progress of any country is likely  to create a favorable environment for devel-
to be slow, however amply it may be en-   opment.
dowed with natural resources and however     Mention must also be made of the diffi-
substantial the assistance of foreign capital.  culties arising from  the social structure
Yet to improve educational and health   of many of the underdeveloped nations
standards in many of the less developed   where there are wide extremes of wealth
countries is a time-consuming and laborious   and poverty. In such cases, strong vested
undertaking. Technical assistance in these   interests often resist any changes which
fieids l-is been and can increasingly be of   would alter their position. In particular,
s:1 *J)Qn flportance. lVithout requiring any   the maintenance in a number of countries
8]



of inefficient and oppressive systems of land   have been the relatively simple one of allo-
tenure militates against increase in agricul-  cating its resources among various claimnant
tural output and improvement in the gen-   schemes. In point of fact, however, the
eral standard of living. On the other hand,   principal limitation upon Bank financing in
attempts to reorganize the social order  the development field has not been lack of
often go to the other extreme and result   money but lack of well-prepared and well-
in policies and measures which make pro-   planned  projects ready  for immediate
ductive investment so hazardous as to   execution.
frighten away both local and foreign cap-   The explanation lies in the gap which
ital. The problem of making necessary ad-   exists between the concept of development
justments in traditional social relationships   potentialities, on the one hand, and the for-
without destroying the stability essential for   mulation of practical propositions designed
development is one which requires excep-   for the realization of those potentialities,
tional understanding and leadership on the   on the other. Before the usual development
part of the governing authorities.       project can be brought to the point where
Development is also hampered by the   money can usefully be employed, its tech-
limited resources of domestic capital avail-  nical feasibility must be established, if nec-
able in most underdeveloped countries. Ex-   essary through detailed engineering studies,
ternal expenditures are only a part, and   market surveys must be made, the avail-
usually a minor part, of the cost of a   ability and cost of the necessary equipment
development project; the remainder must   must be ascertained and the economic va-
normally be derived from sources within  lidity of the project in the light of estimated
the country concerned. The insufficiency   cost and benefit must be demonstrated.
of domestic capital for this purpose in most   Comparison must also be made between
underdeveloped countries is partly a re-  the expected economic advantages of this
flection of their low levels of national in-   particular project and of other proposed
come, which leave little margin for savings   projects which might have to be postponed
over consumption requirements, but in part   or abandoned if this one be undertaken.
it results also from inadequate machinery   Finally, an organization must be created
and incentives for encouraging the produc-  to carry out the project and competent
tive investment of such savings as do exist.   management must be obtained.
These difficulties intensify a problem   All of these steps take time. But ex-
already inherently complex. In the best of   pansion of productive facilities in even the
circumstances, development is not some-   most highly industrialized nations is a
thing which can be sketched on a drawing-   painstaking, lengthy operation, requiring
board and then translated into reality sim-   the most careful and detailed planning.
ply through the provision of finance. If  In the underdeveloped areas, the task is
proof of this be needed, it is supplied by the   still more difficult both because there is
numerous reports which have been com-
piled during recent years suggesting large-  less technical and administrative skill avail-
scale development schemes for various areas   able and because data of all kinds, techni-
of the world, most of which are now gather-   cal and economic, are frequently fragmen-
ing dust on library shelves. If money were  tary and unreliable. To take only one ex-
all that was required to bring those projects  ample, the need for hydro-electric power
to fruition, the Bank's primary task would   and irrigation will in many countries take
[9]



some years to satisfy simply for lack of  lems, can in appropriate cases supplement
geological and hydrological information.  their efforts with financial help.
The existence of these practical ob-      Several underdeveloped countries have
stacles to development does not detract in  requested the Bank to make a general sur-
any way from the validity and importance   vey of their development needs, potentiali-
of the Bank's task. Rather, their existence  ties and problems to provide the basis for a
emphasizes the need for prompt and vigor-  long-term investment program and to indi-
ous action to overcome them and at the   cate what changes, if any, in existing ad-
same time indicates the directions in which   ministrative and financial mechanisms and
such action is likely to be most fruitful. The   economic and financial policies are neces-
major effort must clearly be made by the   sary to carry it out. A Bank mission is now
underdeveloped countries themselves; in-   engaged in making such a study in Colom-
deed, many of the problems which have   bia. The mission is headed by Dr. Lauch-
been mentioned can be solved only at the   lin Currie, a distinguished economist and
national level. But external assistance,  former administrative assistant to Presi-
both technical and financial, can be a pow-   dents Roosevelt and Truman. It includes
erful accelerating force. That is the basic   members of the Bank staff, a member of
premise underlying the Bank's activities in  the staff of the International Monetary
the development field.                    Fund, experts nominated for the mission by
the Food and Agriculture Organization of
Technical Assistance                     the United Nations and by the World
A substantial number of requests have   Health Organization, and other outside
been received by the Bank from its member  technicians specially employed for the mis-
countries for technical advice and assist-  sion. On the basis of the mission's survey,
ance of various kinds. The increasing im-   the Bank hopes to be able to make specific
portance of this aspect of the Bank's activi-  recommendations to the Colombian Gov-
ties has resulted in part from a growing   ernment which will contribute to the for-
recognition by the Bank that, if its loans   mulation and execution of a constructive
are to be sound and productive, it must aid   development plan. The mission is regarded
its underdeveloped member countries to   by the Bank as simply the first step in a
analyze their development problems and   long-range program  of cooperation with
potentialities, to formulate practical invest-   Colombia. The Bank has indicated to Co-
ment programs adapted to their particular  lombia that, provided appropriate domes-
needs and to mobilize their resources and   tic measures are adopted to carry out the
otherwise strengthen their financial posi-   Bank's recommendations, the Bank will
tion. Equally, however, it has resulted from    stand ready to provide continuing techni-
an increased realization by the Bank's mem    cal advice and to consider sympathetically
s that the Bank is in a particularly good   the financing of appropriate development
position to help them. This is so not only   projects.
pocasiti  tohelpthem.nk  Ths is sob e inoits oThe cost of this mission is being shared by
beCauSe the Bank can be objective in its  the Bank and the Colombian Government
approach but also because it maintains a   and this arrangement is expected to be the
continuing close relationship with its mem-   normal pattern. If this type of assistance
bers and, as they themselves move forward   proves to be as valuable as is expected,
in the solution of their development prob-   similar missions will be sent to other coun-
[10 ]



tries which request such aid and are in a   closely with the International Monetary
position to use it effectively.            Fund.
The actual process of working out de-      In order to be in a position to employ or
velopment policies and programs and ob-   recommend qualified technicians, the Bank
taining their general acceptance usually   has started to build up rosters of experts in
involves political as well as technical con-   various fields. The Bank hopes to be in-
siderations. The basic issues must therefore   creasingly useful to its members in helping
be decided by the governing authorities in  them  obtain suitable technical personnel.
the country itself. But assistance by the    In assessing the importance of these ac-
Bank can frequently bring to bear the ex-  tivities of the Bank and the significance of
perience of other countries in dealing with   the technical assistance aspects of the Point
similar problems and may sometimes help   IV program in general, certain observations
to accelerate decisions or to reconcile con-   based upon the Bank's experience may be
flicting local interests.                  of value.
In addition to helping its member coun-    In the first place, for technical assistance
tries in these broad fields of analysis and   to be effective, more is required than com-
advice, the Bank has been called upon to   petence on the part of those providing the
provide technical assistance in connection   assistance. There must be as well a sincere
with more specific development problems.   desire on the part of the recipient country
Some requests have been received, for ex-  to secure the advice and a sufficient con-
ample, for the advice of experts to help   tinuity of contact to provide some assur-
in preparing plans for various industrial,  ance that recommendations once accepted
agricultural or utility projects. In a few   will be carried out. While external tech-
such cases, the Bank has been able to pro-   nical assistance can be of tremendous help
vide the advice requested through its own   in making more effective the efforts of
technical staff or by obtaining a special  those within the country who are seeking
consultant from some other agency; nor-  to speed the pace of its development, the
mally, however, the Bank prefers to assist   most carefully drawn plans of foreign ex-
in obtaining qualified independent experts   perts will be of little value in the absence of
for employment directly by the country  local enterprise and initiative.
concerned.
Monerned. feetthBkiakbys                  In the second place, although many types
Me    frehelp in devis  and putt    of technical assistance can best be provid-
membrs or elpin  eviingandputing ed by national or international agencies-
into effect measures to strengthen their     eXatole o internatonal  enci-
financial position. Such assistance is fur-  for example, in the fields of health, educa-
nished~~~~~~~~~ in vaiu.astruhavc    tion, public finance and governmental ad-
thehedin  Bank'us peranenth haf vine   ministration-other types of assistance can
given by the Bank's permanent staff in the   be made available effectively only as a con-
regular performance of their duties, by
means~~~~ of spca miso. ymlyn    comitant of private investment. In par-
i .ndvda eperts to assios speciic     g   ticular, the extent to which an underdevel-
individual experts to assist specific mem-   oe   onr   a    aeavnaeo  h
ber countries with particular problems, and   oped country can take advantage of the
by suggesting qualified economic or tech-   technical knowledge and managerial com-
nical advisers to be employed directly by   petence of industry in the more advanced
the countries concerned. In providing tech-   countries depends largely on the incentives
nical assistance of this kind, the Bank works   it is able to provide for the private enter-
[ 11 ]



prises which have that knowledge and   through coordination, at the working level,
competence to utilize them in practical op-   of the efforts of all agencies engaged in re-
eration within the country. In this field the   lated activities. But it will be hindered
scope of useful activity by public agencies   rather than advanced by attempts to inte-
is apt to be limited.                      grate unrelated technical assistance activi-
A final observation relates to the prob-   ties within a single all-embracing plan.
lem of coordinating technical assistance
programs. The importance to economic de-   Financial Assistance
velopment of concurrent progress in many     It is the policy of the Bank that three basic
different fields emphasizes the necessity for   criteria must be satisfied before a loan can
continuing collaboration among all agen-   be granted. First, the Bank must be sat-
cies, national or international, which can   isfied, on the one hand, that the loan can-
contribute expert knowledge and experi-  not be obtained privately on reasonable
ence to the underdeveloped countries. To   terms, and, on the other, that there are
this end, the Bank has cooperated closely   reasonable prospects of repayment. This re-
with the United Nations and the other   quires an examination of the economic and
specialized agencies in the formulation of  financial situation and prospects of the bor-
plans for expanded technical assistance ac-   rowing country and, in some cases where
tivities. It must be emphasized, however,  unsatisfactory conditions are found to exist,
that the types of assistance required are   making the loan conditional upon the initia-
extremely varied in character. To use ex-  tion of remedial action. Second, the loan
amples selected at random from the pro-   must be for a sound and productive purpose.
grams of various international organiza-   In order that the Bank may be satisfied on
tions, requests have been received for help  this score, a loan is granted only after the
in such diverse matters as improving finan-   project or program to be financed is suffi-
cial mechanisms and administrative serv-   ciently worked out to permit detailed
ices, drafting air safety regulations, oper-   appraisal of its merits, both technical and
ating agricultural experimental stations,  financial. Finally, since the capacity of most
procuring educational, scientific and tech-   countries to service additional foreign debt
nical publications and controlling infec-  is at present limited, the Bank must satisfy
tious diseases.                           itself that the object of the loan is of suffi-
Because the needs are so varied, and are   cient importance to the economy of the
so great in relation to the resources which   country concerned to warrant incurring
in the best of circumstances will be avail-   a foreign exchange liability to finance it.
able to meet them, the creation of elaborate  In applying these criteria, the Bank has
overhead machinery in an attempt to blue-   recognized that it is Intended to assume
print a single, integrated program of tech-   greater risks than private investors are
nical assistance to be provided by all inter-   either able or willing to assume; indeed,
national agencies seems neither realistic   none of the loans which the Bank has made
nor desirable. Success of the technical   could have been privately financed. How-
assistance effort will in the last analysis   ever, although the Bank is ready to accept
depend upon the effectiveness of action   calculated risks, it is willing to do so only
taken in a multitude of different concrete   when it is convinced that the object of the
situations. This objective will be advanced   loan is sound and productive and that the
[ 12 ]



financing will strengthen the economy of   course, that the resources which the Bank
the borrowing country. This policy is based   commands are adequate to satisfy all of
on the premise that, whatever the short-run   the world's development needs-far from
interests of a particular government may   it. There is a vast difference between the
be, in the long run it is a disservice to any   amount of money that can usefully be em-
country to enable it either to over-borrow    ployed for development at any given time
or to borrow for ill-conceived or poorly-   and the amount that would theoretically
planned projects.                         be needed to exploit all development pos-
The implementation of this policy has  sibilities. There is a vast difference, too,
necessitated, in the case of almost every   between the amount of money which can
loan application, an intensive on-the-spot   usefully be employed and the amount of
investigation of the economic and financial  additional external debt which the under-
position and prospects of the applicant   developed countries can prudently assume.
country and of the merits of the particular   At best, therefore, Bank financing, which
projects proposed for financing. These in-  imposes an additional burden of external
vestigations have proved of substantial  debt, can provide only a part of the for-
value both to the Bank and to the countries   eign capital necessary for development.
concerned. In some cases, they have indi-    In the judgment of the Bank, foreign de-
cated the desirability of modifying, post-  velopment financing should preferably be
poning or abandoning certain projects; in   derived mainly from private sources. Over
other cases, they have resulted in the sug-  the long run, it is only the sustained flow
gestion of new projects, either as substitutes   of private capital that can provide external
for or as supplements to those originally  financial assistance in amounts sufficient to
proposed. In many instances, too, they   make a significant inroad on the world's
have revealed a need for changes in the   development needs. In particular, it is
financial policies of the government or im-   plainly desirable that direct private invest-
provement of its administrative and finan-  ments, on mutually fair terms, be the major
cial machinery. To undertake investiga-  source of foreign capital for development,
tions of this type, and especially to arrive  in order to avoid an undue burden of fixed
at a satisfactory solution of the difficulties   charges and, more important, to take ad-
so frequently uncovered by the investiga-   vantage of the essential technical and man-
tions, involves the expenditure of much   agerial skills which are normally associated
time and effort, but this is inescapable if  with such investments and often are not
the Bank's resources are to be wisely and   obtainable in any other way.
productively used.                          At present there are many obstacles to
The Bank's experience to date indicates   private international investment. Not least
that the Bank now has or can readily ac-  important are the conflicting conditions
quire sufficient resources to help finance   demanded by governments of underdevel-
all the sound, productive projects in its  oped countries and by prospective investors.
member countries that will be ready for   It is easy to appreciate the fears of both
financing in the next few years, that can   sides and their consequent desire for secu-
appropriately be financed through repay-   rity, but it is certainly no remedy for each
able foreign loans and that cannot attract  simply to reiterate the justice of its claims.
private capital.  This does not mean, of   In point of fact, there is usually so much
[ 13 I



common ground of interest that reconcili-  sources or with funds borrowed from
ation of their claims is not too difficult,  abroad.
provided only that it is sought in an at-  The desire of the underdeveloped coun-
mosphere of mutual trust and confidence.  tries to set the speed of their develop-
During the last year or two, some prog-  ment faster than their own resources and
ress has been made in this direction. The   existing international resources will permit
public pronouncements made in recent  has sometimes led to the suggestion that
months by the leaders of such impor-  loans should be made, either by the Bank
tant nations as Brazil, Chile and India,  or by some new agency created for the pur-
welcoming the investment of foreign capi-  pose, at nominal interest rates and repay-
tal in their countries, are significant indica-   able over a very long period of time. Such
tions of an improving climate. The Bank,  loans, it should be noted, would probably
by fostering increased confidence on the   involve a substantial international subsidy
part of both investors and the recipient   and to that extent a disguised grant to the
countries, hopes to contribute to this de-   borrower. If the governments of those few
velopment. Substantial progress may also   countries in a position to provide intema-
result from measures being considered to  tional subsidies should consider it desirable
implement the Point IV program, in par-  in certain instances to provide supplemen-
ticular investment treaties, tax revisions  tary grants in order to expedite the proc-
and perhaps guarantees against certain  esses of economic development, it would be
risks peculiar to international investment.  the Bank's judgment that such assistance
It is true that an increased flow of  should be rendered as outright grants
private capital will not satisfy all devel-  rather than in some form of "fuzzy" loans
opment financing requirements.  Private   which would tend to cast discredit upon
international investments tend at present  the integrity of normal international in-
to be concentrated in a relatively few   vestments.
countries and industries, particularly the  In the long run, international capital
raw material and foodstuff export indus-  in any form  can provide only a minor
tries; investments in production for the   part of the capital needed for develop-
domestic markets of the underdeveloped   ment. The larger share must come from
countries are less favored. Moreover, there   domestic sources through the increase and
are many projects basic to development-  productive investment of local savings. The
primarily in the fields of education, health,   Bank hopes, however, that it can make a
road construction, irrigation and reclama-  substantial contribution to this end by help-
tion and the like-which are unsuited to  ing to finance projects which will raise the
private investment and are yet beyond the  level of production and thereby augment
present economic capacity of many coun-  the available resources of the borrowing
tries to undertake either from  local re-   countries.
EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM
Considerable misunderstanding persists  cause the Bank will necessarily play a sec-
as to the impact upon the Bank's activities   ondary role in Europe during the ERP
of the European Recovery Program. It has   period, the Bank's position as a major in-
sometimes been said, for example, that, be-  strument of international investment has
[ 14 ]



been impaired. This type of thinking mis-   ERP funds are made available in the form
conceives the purposes for which the Bank   either of grants or of loans on terms more
was established.                          attractive than the Bank can offer, so that
The Bretton Woods conference was not  the participating countries have naturally
concerned with providing a solution to the   preferred ERP to Bank financing. In any
anticipated short-run problems of Europe   event, the requirements of the participating
during what was expected in many quar-  countries have been so large in relation to
ters to be a brief transitional period after  the Bank's resources that Bank financing
the war, but rather with the creation of   could at best have met only a small part
permanent agencies which would operate   of the need.
primarily in the post-transitional period.  However, present plans call for termina-
As events have proved, both the magnitude   tion of ERP by June 30, 1952 and for a
of the short-run difficulties and the length   gradual reduction in the amount of aid
of the period of transition were underesti-  provided between now and then. As these
mated at Bretton Woods. But the existence   cutbacks occur, it is reasonable to expect
of Europe's extraordinary immediate re-  that the ERP countries will again look to
quirements and the creation of ERP to sat-  private investors and to the Bank as the
isfy them neither impair the validity of the   principal sources of foreign capital for their
conception underlying the Bank nor threat-  long-term investment projects. Discussions
en the Bank's ability to achieve its objec-   now in progress concerning Bank financing
tive, for the Bank was designed to meet a   for the development of overseas territories
long-term need which will remain when   are a first step in this direction, and there
the present emergency is over-the need   are indications that the Bank may soon be
for a continuing organization to promote   called upon to consider other long-range
international investment on a scale suffi-  projects designed primarily to increase
cient to ensure a balanced development of   European production  in  the post-ERP
the world's resources and a general rise in   period.
its living standards. ERP does not obviate  A  description of each of the loans
that long-term need; on the contrary, it is  granted during the past year is included in
designed to make possible the creation of  the account which follows of the Bank's
economic conditions in Europe in which   activities in its various member countries.
the Bank can play the role for which it was   The  account is necessarily  illustrative
originally intended.                     rather than exhaustive. The Bank has en-
The countries participating in ERP have   gaged in discussions of one sort or another,
not had occasion, during the past year, to   with regard to loans or technical assistance,
call upon the Bank to any great extent for   with most of its 48 members; many of the
financial assistance. This has been due in   discussions, too, have been confidential in
part to the fact that the immediate prob-   nature. Nevertheless, the descriptions be-
lems facing most of those countries have   low should serve to indicate the nature and
been so pressing that their governments  extent of the Bank's activities, the major
have not been able to give high priority to   problems which have arisen in the course
long-range  investment plans.  In  even   of its work and the manner in which it is
greater part, however, it has been because   moving to solve them.
[15 ]



LOAN ACTIVITIES
LOANS GRANTED AND LOAN DISCUSSIONS
The following table shows all of the loans granted by the Bank to date:
Principal
Member            Borrower (if       Amount (in
Country            other than        Millions of
Date         Concerned          Government)        U. S. Dollars)                  Purpose
9 May 47    France            Credit National           $250.0   Industrial and transportdtion equipment, fuel,
industrial materials
7 Aug 47    Netherlands                                 $195.0   Ships, industrial equipment, fuel, feeding grains
and cakes, fertilizer, industrial materials
22 Aug 47    Denmark                                     $ 40.0   Agricultural, textile and chemical equipment,
irndustrial materials
28 Aug 47    Luxembourg                                  $ 12.0   Steel mill and rolling stock
25 Mar 48    Chile             Corporaci6n de            $ 13.5   Hydro-electric and irrigation facilities
Fomento and Empresa
Nacional de Electricidad
25 Mar 48    Chile             Corporaci6n de Fomento   $  2.5   Agricultural machinery
15 Jul 48     Netherlands      Nederland Line            $  2.0   Purchase of S.S. Raki
15 Jul 48     Netherlands      Nederland Line            $  2.0   Purchase of S.S. Roebiah
15 Jul 48     Netherlands      United Netherlands
Navigation              $  2.0   Purchase of S.S. Almkcrk
15 Jul 48     Netherlands      Holland-America Line      $  2.0   Purchase of S.S. Alblasserdijk
15 Jul 48     Netherlands      Rotterdam  Lloyd          $  2.0   Purchase of S.S. Friesland
15 Jul 48     Netherlands      Rotterdam  Lloyd          $  2.0   Purchase of S.S. Drente
6 Jan 49     Mexico           Nacional Financiera and
Comisi6n Federal de
Electricidad            $ 24.1   Power facilities
6 Jan 49     Mexico           Nacional Financiera and
Comisi6n Federal de
Electricidad            $ 10.0   Power facilities
27 Jan 49     Brazil           Brazilian Traction, Light
& Power Co.             $ 75.0   Power and telephone facilities
i Mar 49    Belgium                                     $ 16.0   Two steel mills and a power plant
29 July 49    Netherlands    iHerstelbank                $ 15.0   Industrial modernization and reconstruction
i Aug 49    Finland          Bank of Finland            $ 12.5   Power facilities, woodworking  industry  and
limestone production
18 Aug 49    India                                       $ 34.0   Railroads
19 Aug 49    Colombia          Caja de Cr6dito Agrario,
Industrial y Minero     $  5.0   Agricultural machinery
Total              $716.6
LATIN AMERICA                               Government. Both loans are guaranteed by
Mexico                                                    the Government.
On  January  6, 1949, the  Bank  made                     The first loan, of $24,100,000, was made
two loans, totalling $34,100,000, to agencies             to finance purchases by the Federal Elec-
of the  Mexican  Government for electric    tricity Commission of equipment and mate-
power development in Mexico. The joint    rials necessary for completion of a number
borrowers in  each  case are  the  Comisi6n               of projects in the Commission's 1947-1952
Federal de Electricidad  (Federal Electric-    program   of construction, comprising  new
ity  Commission), a Mexican  Government    steam   and  hydro-electric  generating  sta-
agency  charged  with  the  development of    tions, transmission  lines  and  distribution
electric   power  facilities,  and   Nacional    systems in various parts of Mexico.  The
Financiera, an official financing institution             loan is for a term  of 25 years and carries
whose functions include the negotiation of    an  interest rate  of 3'/2%, plus the  usual
foreign  loans  on  behalf of the  Mexican                commission  charge  of  1 %   per  annum.
[ 16]



Amortization payments begin in the fifth   $26 million, to be used to refund the short-
year.                                    term credit and to finance further costs of
The second Mexican loan, of $10 mil-  the expansion program.
lion, was made to enable Nacional Finan-   These loans are the outcome of negotia-
ciera and the Federal Electricity Commis-  tions which began, in April 1947, with the
sion to finance, by way of a loan of like   application by Mexico for a large loan for
amount to The Mexican Light and Power   a series of hydro-electric, irrigation, oil
Company, Limited, part of the cost of  pipeline, railway, port and highway proj-
equipment and materials necessary to carry   ects. Several of these projects, however,
out a program for expansion of the electric   were in too early a stage of planning for the
generating and distribution facilities of that  Bank to be able to give them immediate
Company and its subsidiaries. The Com-   consideration. Furthermore, the applica-
pany, which is incorporated under Cana-  tion presupposed extensive Bank financing
dian law, is responsible, together with its  of local currency as well as foreign ex-
subsidiaries, for most of the generation and   change costs, a course which would have
all of the distribution of electric power in  imposed an undue burden of foreign debt
Mexico City and the surrounding area, the   on Mexico. As simultaneous financing of
most densely populated and industrialized   the local currency costs of the whole pro-
portion of the country. The loan, which   gram from internal Mexican sources would
matures on December 31, 1949, covers only   have been beyond the capacity of the
expenditures required prior to that date in  economy, a (determination of the relative
connection with the Company's expansion   priority of the projects had to be made.
program, although that program  is not  In the fall of 1947, therefore, a Bank rep-
scheduled for completion until 1953 and   resentative was sent to Mexico to gather
the total foreign expenditures required   additional information and to assist the
therefor are estimated at $26,000,000. The   Government in framing a revised applica-
loan carries an interest rate of 3127%, plus  tion.
the usual 1 To commission charge. The loan  It became clear that the electric power
was made through Nacional Financiera and   projects had a special claim on the Bank's
the Federal Electricity Commission, rather   attention, since they were not only at a
than directly to the Company, because   more advanced stage of study and plan-
under the existing financial structure of the   ning than other parts of the program, but
Company any Bank loan would have been   were also fundamental to the progress of
subordinate to a substantial prior indebted-  that program. It was therefore agreed be-
ness. The terms, amount and nature of the   tween the Bank and the Government that
loan are designed to permit the expansion   the power projects should be given priority.
program to go forward pending consumma-  In May 1948 and the following months,
tion of a reorganization of the Company's  technical advisers of the Bank paid a num-
financial structure which is now  being   ber of visits to Mexico to study the plans of
undertaken. If the reorganization is satis-  the Federal Electricity Commission and The
factorily completed and if no obstacles arise   Mexican  Light and  Power Company,
in connection with the general position of  which they found well-adapted to meet
the Company or the Mexican economy,   Mexico's requirements, and to determine,
the Bank will be prepared to negotiate a   in agreement with the Government, which
long-term loan to the Company of about   projects were most urgently needed.
[ 17]



It was also necessary for the Bank to   of money and credit has been kept under
evaluate Mexico's general economic posi-  control and, in June 1949, the peso was
tion and her ability to sustain the burden   stabilized. On the other hand, Mexico's
of additional foreign indebtedness, and for  foreign debt remains high, the inflow of
this purpose a mission headed by the Eco-   external private capital is still insufficient,
nomic Director was sent to Mexico in Au-   and serious problems of domestic finance
gust 1948. The Mexican economy expand-   and foreign payments remain. Extensive
ed rapidly during the war, but difficulties  further development of the country's oil
encountered in the post-war period came   resources still awaits adequate prosecution.
to a head with the suspension of a fixed   Although the difficulties are appreciated,
parity for the peso in July 1948. A rapid  it would appear that one course which
increase of population made necessary a   might bring about a quick transformation
high rate of capital formation, in the face   of Mexico's economic situation would be
of inadequate private savings and a fairly  the conclusion of appropriate arrange-
rigid pattern of external trade. Mexican   ments for oil exploration and production,
governments had consequently tended to   of a type which has proved successful in
finance extensive agricultural, industrial  other countries.
and public utility programs by inflationary
means which, in turn, had reacted adverse-   Brazil
ly on the balance of payments.             On January 27, 1949, the Bank lent
In October 1948, however, the Mexican   $75 million to the Brazilian Traction,
Minister of Finance announced his Gov-   Light and Power Company, Ltd., a Cana-
ernment's intention to balance the budget,  dian corporation, to finance most of the
to limit public works, to maintain credit  foreign exchange costs of a four- to five-
restrictions, and to fix a new parity for the   year program of expansion for the hydro-
peso in consultation with the International  electric power and telephone facilities of
Monetary Fund. The peso exchange rate  the  Company's  Brazilian  subsidiaries.
remained stable during the latter part of   These subsidiaries operate in the Rio de
1948, and the 1949 budget involved no in-   Janeiro and Sao Paulo areas, the most
flationary expedients. Moreover, after a   densely populated and industrialized parts
long period of unsettled relations with for-  of Brazil. The program provides for ex-
eign investors, Mexico had made efforts  pansion of the presently overloaded power
in recent years to reestablish her external   generating and distribution equipment by
credit and to attract foreign capital. The   more than 50%o and necessary additions to
Bank therefore concluded that, while in-  the facilities supplying water for power
vestment in Mexico was not free from risks,  purposes. Local telephone services will also
the situation was such as to justify the   be increased by about 40%o, and long dis-
financing requested.                     tance traffic capacity will be expanded.
Since the loans were granted, there has   These projects will substantially reduce the
been a further depreciation of the peso and   deficiencies in power supply and communi-
a fall in New York metal prices which ad-   cations which have been important ob-
versely affects export prospects. However,  stacles to Brazil's development and are in
production has increased, prices and wages   accordance with the objectives set by the
have remained fairly stable, the trade defi-   Government's  comprehensive  five - year
cit has been sharply reduced, the volume   "Salte" plan.
[ 18 ]



The loan is for a term of 25 years and   Agreement, and from delays in the intro-
carries an interest rate of 3V2%o, plus the   duction and passage of necessary enabling
usual 1  commission charge. Amortization   legislation in the Brazilian Congress.
will begin in 1953. The loan is guaranteed  The Bank continues to have an active
by the Government of Brazil.             interest in the realization of Brazil's poten-
Brazilian Traction first made applica-  tialities for development. A  number of
tion for a loan of $100 million on May 1,  additional projects have been  brought
1947. The company's plans had to be ex-  to the Bank's attention by various inter-
tensively revised, however, to take account   ests in Brazil. They cover a variety of
of a sharp rise in the cost of equipment and   proposed undertakings in many different
of local labor, and the revised application,   parts of the country. Only a few, however,
presented at the end of 1947, reduced the   have so far received support from  the
requested amount to $75 million by post-   Brazilian Government. The most impor-
poning a part of the hydro-electric construc-  tant of these is a project for the hydro-
tion to a later date and eliminating pro-   electric development of the Sao Francisco
posed expenditures for gas, water and   River in the Brazilian Northeast, which calls
tramway facilities.                      for an initial development of 120,000 kilo-
Meanwhile the Bank undertook a study   watts at what is potentially one of the two
of Brazil's economic position. As in other  largest sources of hydro power in South
Latin American countries, the wartime ac-   America.  An engineer engaged by the
cumulation of foreign exchange and sub-   Bank for the purpose is now in Brazil mak-
sequent deficit financing by the Govern-  ing a survey of power demand in connec-
ment had led to internal credit expansion   tion with this project.
and consequent acute inflation of prices. In  No final order of priority for develop-
the post-war years, the increased need to   ment has been established by Brazil. All
rely on the dollar area for essential raw   the projects favored so far have related
materials and capital goods, together with  to hydro-electric power which, according to
the inconvertibility of holdings of certain  the conclusions reached by the Joint Brazil-
currencies, resulted in a shortage of dollars   U. S. Technical Commission, is one of the
which may continue for some time, despite   prime needs of the country. The expected
the fact that over-all foreign exchange re-   approval by the Brazilian Congress of the
ceipts and payments have been nearly bal-   Government's  "Salte"  plan,  however,
anced. The Government has, however,  should provide a general framework and
made efforts to restrict imports, to stimu-   guide for future development.
late exports and to arrest inflation. In July
1948, the par value of the cruzeiro was   Chile
fixed in consultation with the International  Two loans for projects in Chile-$13.5
Monetary Fund.                           million for hydro-electric development and
A considerable delay in concluding the   $2.5 million for the purchase of agricul-
loan negotiations resulted from the need   tural machinery -  were authorize(d in
for extensive discussions between the Bank   March 1948 and are described in the Third
and the Government to agree on the form    Annual Report. This authorization was
of guarantee to be extended by Brazil, in  subject to the guarantee of the loans by the
accordance with the Bank's Articles of   Chilean Government, which was given on
[ 19 1



March 23, 1949, after the passage of the   of seven years, with amortization to begin
necessa:y legislation.                  on May 15, 1952. Interest is at the rate
During its early consideration of the   of 2 27o plus the usual 1 % commission.
Chilean application, the Bank drew the    Additional mechanization of agriculture
attention of the Government to the exist-  in Colombia will make possible increased
ence of certain conditions which, in the   yields on lands already cultivated and will
Bank's view, were likely to impair the effi-  permit new lands to be brought into pro-
cacy of a loan and to deter the resump-   duction. Thus it will help to raise the
tion of international investment in Chile.  country's nutritional standards and tend to
The Chilean Government moved promptly  reduce the need for food imports which
to rectify these conditions. Measures were   must be paid for largely in hard currency.
taken to balance the national budget, to   The Colombian Govemment has assured
improve Chile's foreign exchange controls  the Bank that it will continue to provide
and to check the decline in the country's  sufficient foreign exchange to finance the
gold and foreign exchange reserves. Agree-  maintenance and replacement of agricul-
ments were reached with committees rep-  tural machinery already in the country, so
resenting foreign bondholders for settle-  that the equipment to be purchased with
ment of the external debt, which had been  the proceeds of the Bank's loan will repre-
in partial default since 1931.          sent a net addition to the equipment pres-
The improvement in Chile's economic  ently available.
position during 1948 was encouraging.     This loan is the first outcome of discus-
The value of exports increased by 19%,  sions initiated on an informal basis in July
while imports were held at the 1947   1948 by Colombian  representatives in
level; international payments were about in   Washington. In the same month the Bank
balance. The budget showed a surplus of  sent a mission to Colombia to acquaint it-
some 10%, and the rate of inflation was  self generally with the country's economic
slowed down. Major advances were regis-  situation and problems. The mission's con-
tered in both industrial and agricultural  clusions, which were communicated to the
output and substantial progress was made   Colombian Government, stressed the im-
in agricultural mechanization and in the   portance of balancing the national budget
expansion of industrial facilities. These   and of action to comply with recommenda-
advances should help to mitigate the ef-  tions of the International Monetary Fund
fects upon the Chilean economy of the   with respect to reorganization of the coun-
recent sharp decline in copper prices.  try's foreign exchange controls and estab-
lishment of a new par value for its cur-
Colombia                                rency. Legislation designed to accomplish
On August 19, 1949, the Bank made  these ends and authorizing the Government
a oan Auf $5,000000 to the Caja de Cre-  to guarantee Bank loans has been enacted.
dito Agrario, Industrial y Minero, an au-    In December 1948, a second Bank mis-
diton   ro,us development bank in which the   sion was sent to Colombia to study specific
tonomons development bankon h the   projects proposed by the Colombian Gov-
Colombian Government holds the major   ernment. The loan described above has
interest, to finance the importation of agri-  been granted for one of these projects, and
cultural machinery. The loan is guaran-   negotiations for a loan to finance another
teed by the Government. It is for a term   are in progress.
[ 20 ]



The Bank also suggested to the Govern-   and tentative stage. Discussions were there-
ment the desirability of a comprehensive   fore concerned mainly with determining
survey of Colombia's economic resources  the order of priority of the projects from
and needs, with a view  to indicating   the point of view of economic importance
the most promising lines of development,  and suitability for Bank financing, and
the principal obstacles in the way, and the   with arrangements for further technical
means by which they might be surmounted.   appraisal and planning.
The Government agreed with this sugges-     There is agreement between the Gov-
tion and, at its request, the Bank organized   ernment and the Bank that improvement
a special mission for this purpose. This  of Ecuador's agricultural output should be
mission, which is described in more detail  given special emphasis at the present time.
in an earlier section of this report, is now   It has also been agreed that, in view of
in Colombia; the Vice President of the   Ecuador's balance of payments position, at-
Bank joined the mission during its first gen-  tention ought to be concentrated primarily
eral discussions with the Government. On   on projects which would directly earn or
the basis of the mission's findings, the Bank   save foreign exchange. After studying the
expects to be able to make recommenda-  report of the mission, the Bank informed
tions to the Colombian Government de-  the Government that it would be willing
signed to help it in formulating a long-term   to consider granting financial assistance
program of development and the economic  to Ecuador, initially on a modest scale,
and financial measures necessary to carry   and that two projects appeared to qualify
it out. It is hoped that the mission's find-  for Bank financing provided that detailed
ings will also serve to indicate the direc-  studies and proposals proved satisfactory:
tions, financial and otherwise, in which the   the first to establish a mechanized farm
Bank can best assist in the further develop-  service unit to help in reducing the cost
ment of Colombia.                        of agricultural production, especially rice;
and the second to provide equipment for
Ecuador                                  constructing new irrigation works. A third
During the visit of the President of the   project, a scheme for the propagation
Bank to Ecuador in April 1948, the Gov_  and distribution of high-yield cacao strains
ernment outlined a proposed development  resistant to the diseases which have long
program  comprising farm mechanization,  handicapped  the  countryhs cacao produc
irrigation and cement projects. A Bank  tson, also appeared to the Bcak tbhou
mission visited Ecuador in July 1948 to  special importance to Ecuador  Although
make a general economic survey and a pre-  as the Government had pointed out, this
lima  a genal economic srveytan ape    scheme would not necessarily call for ex-
iurtner discussions on  the  projects but  ternal financing, the Bank expressed its
willingness to assist the Government in ob-
ings were interrupted by the election of a   ta*ing expert technical advice and to con-
new government.                          sider any case for its financing that detailed
At the invitation of the new President of   proposals might reveal. In addition, at the
Ecuador another mission visited the coun-  request of the Government, the Bank has
try in April 1949, for consultation on proj-  sent an expert to Ecuador to make a study
ects under consideration by the Govern-   of the rehabilitation needs of Ecuador's
ment. These projects are still in an early  textile industry.
[ 21 ]



The Bank received the news of the   and improve its power and communication
severe earthquake of August 5 with deep   facilities.
sympathy. It is still too soon for the Bank
to be able to assess the precise economic   Costa Rica
implications of the disaster and its bearing  A Bank mission visited Costa Rica in
on the Government's development plans   September 1948 and gathered information
and on the Bank's approach.              on the economy of the country and on vari-
ous projects selected by the Government for
Uruguay                                  possible Bank financing.
A representative of the Uruguayan Gov-   After a subsequent visit to Costa Rica
ernment, in September 1948, presented to   by the President of the Bank in Decem-
the Bank an application for a loan to cover   ber 1948, the Bank informed the Gov-
various development projects, including   ernment that, in its opinion, the financing
power, telephones, railways, ports and cer-  of projects in Costa Rica could be most
tain private undertakings. In October-  fruitful if certain economic, financial and
November 1948, a mission headed by the   administrative measures were adopted to
Bank's Loan Director visited Uruguay to  strengthen the country's economy. It sug-
study the country's economic and financial  gested that these ends might be advanced
situation and to investigate the proposed   by the appointment of an economic and
projects. The mission recommended that  financial adviser who would recommend
active consideration be given first to a loan   policy and coordinate the work of experts
for expansion of electric power and tele-  in specific fields. In the meantime the Bank
phone facilities. A second mission in Feb-   agreed to cooperate with Costa Rica in
ruary-March 1949, which included con-   elaborating certain selected projects. The
sulting engineers on power and telephones,   Costa Rican Government agreed fully with
investigated the financial and technical as-  the Bank's views and recommendations and
pects of the proposed projects in more de-  requested the Bank's assistance in the se-
tail. Negotiations are now in progress.  lection of an adviser.
Development in Uruguay is already well    In June 1949, the Bank was informed
advanced in comparison with that in most  that there had been a change in the pro-
other countries in Latin America. Average   gram of the present Government and of
income per head is roughly the same as that  the President-Elect, and that a detailed
in Western Europe, and the groundwork   proposal for a new integrated agricultural
has been laid for further economic progress.  project, to include some of the projects
Difficulties exist, however, as a result of the   which had previously been put forward in-
world-wide dollar shortage. Although Uru-   dividually, would be presented to the Bank
guay's over-all balance of payments deficits  in the near future. This proposal is now
in recent years have been manageable,  awaited.
hard currency receipts have been insuffi-
cient to permit capital imports from the   El Salvador
dollar area on the desired scale. The pro-  The Government of El Salvador has for
posed Bank loan is designed to help over-  some time had in mind a project for the
come these difficulties by enabling Uruguay   hydro-electric development of the Rio
to purchase equipment needed to expand   Lempa and had set up a Hydro-electric
[ 22 ]



Executive Commission for the Rio Lempa    The President of the Bank visited Guate-
as the agency responsible for carrying out   mala in November 1948. Thereafter, in
the project. The possibility of an application   March 1949, the Guatemalan Develop-
for a loan to finance this project was first  ment Institute requested assistance from
mentioned to the Bank in 1947, and the   the Bank in arranging for experts to study
subject was again raised during a visit by   and elaborate projects for irrigation, min-
the President of the Bank to El Salvador in  ing and electric power development. The
November 1948. In March 1949, the Com-   Bank felt that before large expenditures
mission informed the Bank that plans for   were incurred by Guatemala for intensive
the project were sufficiently advanced to  studies of this kind, it would be advisable
justify technical examination with a view   for a survey of development possibilities to
to possible Bank financing, and the Bank   be carried out and an order of priority de-
accordingly sent a mission to El Salvador  termined. This view was conveyed to the
to make studies of the project and of the   Development Institute and the Central
general economic situation. After consider-   Bank during a visit by members of the
ation of the report of this mission, the Bank   Bank's staff in June 1949.
advised the Commission that it was pre-   At the request of the Government of
pared to enter into immediate negotiations.   Paraguay the Bank sent a mission to make
These negotiations are expected to com-   a general economic survey of that country.
mence shortly. At the request of the Salva-  It concluded that promising possibilities for
dorean Government the Bank also arranged   development exist in several fields. A re-
for the services of an expert on agricultural   port of this mission was presented to the
credit, borrowed from the United States   Paraguayan Government.
Farm Credit Administration, to advise on  At the request of the Minister of Finance
problems connected with the operations of   of Venezuela, the Bank sent a mission to
the Mortgage Bank of El Salvador. His  that country in September 1948, to review
report and recommendations have been   with the Development Corporation and
transmitted to the Mortgage Bank.       other agencies of the Venezuelan Govern-
Other Latin American Countries          ment the country's economic situation and
development plans. No loan has been re-
A Bank mission was sent to Bolivia and   quested by Venezuela.
Peru, at the request of those countries, in  During the course of a trip throughout
March-April 1948. Its conclusions have   the Central American and Caribbean area
been communicated to the two Govern-  in November-December 1948, the Presi-
ments. In each case the Bank emphasized   dent of the Bank visited the Dominican Re-
that a necessary prerequisite of any loans   public, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.
would be a willingness on the Government's   A general review of the economic position
part to adopt certain measures to strength-   and potentialities of each of these countries
en the country's financial position. In addi-  has been made and there have been pre-
tion, at the request of Peru, the Bank ob-  liminary discussions concerning projects
tained the services of an irrigation expert  proposed for Bank financing. The Presi-
from FAO to assist in reviewing Peru's irri-  dent also visited Cuba in February 1949,
gation program and working out plans for   and at that time and on the occasion of a
the Piura Valley irrigation project.    subsequent visit by Bank representatives,
[ 23 ]



discussions took place with officials of the   been rapid, the maintenance of its position
Cuban Government as to how the Bank   depends upon the continued reequipment
might best assist in promoting the further   of its industries so that it can lower export
development of the country's economy.    prices. This loan accords with the Bank's
policy of supplementing ERP by helping to
EUROPE                     finance projects, in addition  to those
Belgium                                   financed by ECA, which will permanently
expand or modernize Europe's productive
On March 1, 1949, the Bank made a   capacity in cases where reasonable pros-
loan of $16 million to the Kingdom  of   pects of repayment exist.
Belgium, for the purpose of providing       The Bank has kept in close touch with
United States dollars for imports of equip-   economic and financial developments in
ment for the construction of two steel mills   Belgium and has consulted with the Gov-
and a power plant in the industrial district  ernment concerning its general investment
of Li6ge. The loan is for a term of 20 years   program in order that the Bank might be
and carries an interest rate of 3'4 '%, plus   familiar with these matters should it ap-
the usual 1 o commission charge. Amor-   pear necessary and appropriate at some
tization payments will start in the fifth  later stage for the Bank to finance addi-
year.                                    tional Belgian projects.
The proceeds of this loan will be allo-
cated as follows:                        Finland
a) $4.5 million to the Compagnie des      On August 1, 1949, a loan of $12.5 mil-
Fers Blancs et Toles a Froid (Ferblatil)  lion was made to the Bank of Finland,
-a subsidiary of the largest Belgian steel  guaranteed by the Finnish Government.
producer, S. A. John Cockerill-to import   The purposes of the loan, and the approxi-
equipment for the construction of a cold   m
rolling and tin plating mill              mate amounts to be used for each purose
b) $5.8 million to Societe Anonyme   are as follows:
d'Ougree-Marihaye, the second  largest      a) completion of the elec-
steel works in Belgium, to import equip-       tric power program      $2,000,000
ment for a blooming mill; and               b) modernizing  and  im-
d) $5.7 million to Union des Centrales       proving the efficiency of
Electriques de Li6ge-Namur-Luxembourg          the woodworking indus-
(Linalux), a cooperative company engaged      tries                    10,000,000
in transmission and distribution of power,  c  increasing   production
having among its members the leading min-
ing and manufacturing enterprises of the       of limestone powder for
Li6ge Basin, for imports of equipment to       agriculture                350,000
erect a power generating plant.             d) to be allocated            150,000
These projects will help to modernize   The term of the loan is 15 years. The rate
and expand two of Belgium's key industries   of interest is 3%, plus the usual 1 7o com-
and thereby will contribute to an increase   mission. Amortization pavments will begin
in the country's productivity. Although   on February 1, 1953, after the scheduled
Belgium's post-war economic recovery has   end of reparations deliveries.
[ 24 ]



Finland became a member of the Bank   new Government has achieved substantial
on January 14, 1948, and in February of  internal financial stability. Finally, Fin-
that year the Government indicated its in-  land's debt record has been excellent and,
tention of applying for a loan. A substan-  viewed against the background of her for-
tial list of projects was submitted, including   eign trade and favorable balance of pay-
projects in agriculture, the woodworking   ments prospects, the foreign debt is not ex-
industries, electric power, the railroads, the   cessive. The Bank also considered the fact
cement and limestone industry, the mer-  that the deficiency of timber and wood
chant marine and ports and harbors. A   products in Europe is being made up by
Bank mission was sent to Finland in   dollar imports from the Western Hemis-
October-November 1948, to appraise the   phere, and that development of produc-
country's economic situation and examine  tion in Europe will contribute to reducing
the projects.                            the size of Europe's dollar deficit.
In considering Finland's application the  In the choice of specific projects to be
Bank had to face several difficult questions.  financed by the loan, the Bank gave pri-
There were, first, certain internal and ex-  mary consideration to their immediate con-
ternal political risks which, because of their  tribution to increasing Finland's produc-
direct economic implications, could not be  tion and exports and reducing production
ignored by the Bank. Following the election   costs. The electric power part of the loan
of July 1948, a coalition government had   will help to finance a program of develop-
been replaced by one composed solely of  ment already in progress and scheduled
representatives of a single party, which de-  for completion by 1951. Power shortages
pended for its parliamentary majority on   have been causing winter stoppages in im-
support from other major parties repre-  portant branches of the Finnish woodwork-
senting widely divergent views. Further-  ing industries. In those industries them-
more, Finland's geographic positioll inevit-  selves, the Bank's loan, supplementing an
ably involved her in the uncertain interna-   earlier loan of $10 million from the Export-
tional situation.                        Import Bank, will finance extensive mod-
A further problem arose from Finland's  ernization; such modernization is essential
reparations to the U.S.S.R., nominally  if efficiency is to be increased and Finland
amounting to $300 million but actually  is to maintain her competitive position in
representing more than twice as much at  a period of declining world prices. In-
present prices. The residual reparations ob-  creased production of limestone powder for
ligation, as of July 1, 1948, was halved by   agriculture is considered perhaps the most
the Soviet Union but reparations deliveries  important single step in raising agricul-
will still continue to be a heavy burden on   tural output.
the Finnish economy until the fall of 1952.
On the other hand, by sacrifice and self-   The Netherlands
discipline Finland has discharged three-   On July 29, 1949, the Bank made a
quarters of her reparations obligations in  loan of $15 million to the Finance Corpora-
four years. Her economy has recovered   tion for National Reconstruction (Herstel-
rapidly from the effects of the war; exports  bank), guaranteed by the Netherlands
-mainly timber, pulp, paper and board-   Government. The loan is for a 15-year pe-
have reached 70% of pre-war volume. The   riod, with amortization payments to begin
25  i



at the end of three years. Interest is at 37o,  except in connection with the timber loan
plus the usual 1 o commission.            referred to below.
The Herstelbank will make the proceeds
of the loan available to 24 Dutch corpora-   Italy
tions in various industries to finance part of  In August 1947, the Italian Government
their requirements for imports of equip-   applied for a loan to be used for the gen-
ment from hard currency areas required   eral requirements of the Italian economy.
for reconstruction  or modernization  of   A Bank mission was sent to Italy about a
plant. Nearly $9.5 million of the loan will   month later to make a general survey of the
be expended for requirements in the chemi-  economic picture. In January 1948, the
cal and textile industries, and the remain-   Bank suggested that it would be desirable
der will be divided among the glass, ce-  for Italy to reframe its application in terms
ment, pharmaceutical, metallurgical, engi-  of specific projects. A second mission was
neering, electrical and paper industries,  sent to Italy in April 1948, at the Govern-
The loan will complement financing ob-   ment's request, to assist the latter in the
tained from other sources. The Herstelbank   selection of projects. Since that time Italy's
has estimated that the increased produc-   most urgent needs have been financed
tion made possible by this financing will  through ERP funds and, therefore, discus-
enable exports to be increased and imports  sions of an immediate Bank loan have not
to be reduced substantially, and that much   been actively pursued. There has, how-
of this benefit will accrue in hard curren-   ever, been some preliminary investigation
ces, principally Belgian francs.           of the possibility of Bank assistance in
The economic position of the Nether-  financing the Government's development
lands is a difficult one. Its readjustment to 
program for Southern Italy, together with
a sounder basis (especially the elimination
11                         the financing of some other development
of the dollar deficit in the balance of pay-   plans.
ments) may require drastic action by the
Netherlands authorities and further de-   Norway
mands for sacrifices on the part of the
Dutch people.                                In January 1948, representatives of the
Norwegian Government approached the
Czechoslovakia                            Bank with regard to possible financing of
In July 1946, the Czechoslovak Govern-  its shipbuilding program. In subsequent
ment applied for a general reconstruction   discussions the indicated purpose of the
loan of $350 million. The Bank requested   loan was changed to that of refinancing
further information concerning the pur-  short-term credits for ships already pur-
poses of the proposed loan and the general   chased in the United States. The Bank
economic condition of the country. In Jan-   undertook general studies of the Norwegian
uary 1948, the Government presented to   economy and of the merits of the proposed
the Bank a revised application for a smaller   project as a basis for considering a loan. In
loan to finance a group of selected projects.  the fall of 1948, however, the Norwegian
Subsequently, in May 1948, Bank repre-   Government indicated that it did not desire
sentatives visited Czechoslovakia to study   to pursue this loan request but might wish
conditions on the spot. No active loan ne-   at some later date to submit a new pro-
gotiations have, however, been undertaken,   posal. Suggestions for financing some pri-
[ 26 ]



vate projects in Norway, advanced from     The Bank is strongly impressed with the
non-governmental sources, have been re-   opportunities for economic development in
ferred to the Norwegian Government for   Turkey, although recognizing the current
determination as to whether it wishes to   difficulties. At present, Turkey's exports
sponsor them.                            are small in relation to her import needs,
Poland                                   and, in her balance of payments, she is in
substantial current account deficit with the
The Polish Government first approached   sterling area. She has already contracted a
the Bank in the Autumn of 1946 for a $600   considerable external debt, in both sterling
million loan to finance its plans for the   and dollars, which involves relatively heavy
development of the Polish economy. After   annual service charges. It is, moreover, un-
a series of discussions with the Bank, the   certain how much additional dollar debt
Polish representatives in the Spring of 1947   will be assumed under ERP. Military ex-
applied for a smaller loan to be devoted to   penditures impose a heavy burden on the
coal mining and related industries. The   Turkish economy, and, for as long as the
Bank then sent a fact-finding mission to   Turkish Government considers them neces-
Poland to study both the Polish economy   sary, will continue to absorb resources
and the projects for which the Government   which, in other circumstances, could be
had  requested  financing.  Negotiations   devoted to development purposes. More-
thereafter took place in Washington con-   over, obstacles to the growth and efficient
cerning a possible loan for development of   operation of private enterprise have inhib-
the coal mining industry, but no agreement  ited the development of Turkey's economy
was reached on the terms, and negotiations  in certain fields. The Government has been
were suspended in the late Spring of 1948.   giving active consideration to these prob-
There have been no significant develop-  lems and to the initiation of remedial meas-
ments since that time.                   ures where possible.
The Bank has indicated its desire to give
Turkey                                   every possible aid in working out long-
On March 30, 1948, representatives of  range solutions to Turkish problems. The
the Turkish Government approached the   Government has requested assistance from
Bank to discuss a possible loan to help  the Bank in making a broad survey of Tur-
finance Turkey's 1948-52 development pro-   key's resources, in preparing a general plan
gram. After a preliminary analysis of this  for their development, and in devising and
program  and exploratory talks with the   carrying out measures to strengthen Tur-
Turkish representatives, a Bank mission   key's fiscal and administrative structure
visited Turkey in January-March 1949, to   and to foster private enterprise. The Bank
appraise the general situation and to exam-   has agreed to furnish this assistance and is
ine and help select projects which might be   actively engaged in the selection of suitable
suitable for Bank financing. The Vice Pres-   personnel. MIeanwhile, the Bank is pro-
ident of the Bank also visited Turkey in   ceeding with a review of the following
March and joined the mission in general  specific projects in Turkey: grain storage
policy discussions with the Government.  facilities; the Seyhan Dam for irrigation,
The Government thereafter submitted a   flood control and electric power; and port
formal application to the Bank for a loan   construction  and  improvement works.
to finance a number of varied projects.  Technical specialists will visit Turkey in
[ 27 ]



September to make a detailed evaluation   consider what steps could be taken to meet
of these projects.                       the serious current and prospective short-
YugoslaVid                               age of timber in Europe. Thereafter, the
problem was considered at various meetings
On December 26, 1947, the Yugoslav   o     pca   ibrCmiteo  h
Government addressed a letter to the Bank   Ut  Nation Eom ic Commission for
requesting a loan of $500 million for the   Urope,  on w chnboth timberiimpor
purpse f lnd mprvemnt nd he en-Europe, on which both timber importing
purpecofrl and improve    ment a e       and exporting countries were represented,
roads and rail communications, mines and   and of various working groups of the West-
electricd powr facilities. Nosupptines man   ern European timber importing countries.
electric power facilities. No supporting ma-  It was concluded by the Timber Committee
terial was supplied, but the Governnent in-  that production and exports of sawn soft-
dicated that additional data would be   wo   n   iposcudb  usatal
forthcoming. In subsequent informal dis-  increased if equipment could be obtained
cussions, extending over a considerable pe-  from Western Europe and the United States
riod, the Bank took the position that the   by five timber exporting tountries, Austria,
economic situation and prospects of Yugo-  Czechoslovakia, Finland, Poland and Yugo-
slavia did not justify a loan of the size re-  slavia.
quested. It suggested, however, that it    After extensive discussions, a working
would welcome designation by the Govern-
ment of priority projects to be considered          t       i       c     i
a meeting in May 1948, advanced a pro-
as objects for a smaller loan.           posal for Bank financing which, though
In May and June 1949, discussions were
renewed by the Yugoslav Governmnent,  sic moife  in imotneset,po
renwhi   submitted detailed infovermatonwit,  vided the basic patterns for the loans now
rphich submitted detailed imformation wth   being discussed. This proposal was devel-
respect to projects for the importation of  oe   tfrhrmeig  fteTme
oped at further meetings of the Timber
agricultural and  irrigation  machinery,  Committee in Geneva in June and Septem-
transportation equipment, and equipment  ber 1948. Representatives of the Bank par-
for the mining, metallurgical and a num-  ticipated in those meetings and remained
ber of smaller industries. General data on  in Europe for a period of about three
the country's economic position were also   months in order to assist in working out
furnished.                               practical arrangements for the project.
The Bank is currently engaged in a study   Since then the Bank has continued to work
of the economy of Yugoslavia, and a mis-  in close cooperation with representatives of
sion is now in that country to obtain addi-  the importing and exporting countries and
tional information as a basis for considera-  the Timber Committee.
tion of a loan of moderate size. In addition  In brief, the following are the principal
to an examination of Yugoslavia's general  aspects of the proposals considered by the
economic and financial position, the mis-  Bank: The Bank would make loans to the
sion, aided by technical specialists, will  timber exporting countries of amounts nec-
examine the specific projects which appear  essary to finance the dollar purchases of
to be most urgent and productive.        equipment (approximately $8,000,000 in
Timber Project                           the aggregate); the Western European
An international timber conference was   equipment would be obtained by other
held in Czechoslovakia early in 1947 to   agreements between the countries involved;
[ 28 ]



the timber exporting countries would agree  this project is to tap subsoil water with
to export at reasonable market prices in-  deep-well pumps.  Its foreign exchange
creased quantities of timber, provided the   cost is estimated at the equivalent of $23
necessary equipment could be obtained,  million. In subsequent discussions with
and the Western European timber import-  Egyptian representatives it was agreed that
ing countries would enter into Timber Pay-  the Bank would send a mission to study the
ments Agreements with the borrowers  country's financial and economic situation
under which the importing countries would  and to consider the Government's plans for
pay dollars to the Bank for a sufficient part  economic development, especially the Qena
of the timber to be imported by them to  project, and that a formal loan applica-
assure repayment of the loans.          tion might best await the outcome of this
The project has been approached as an  survey.
experiment in the cooperative development    The Vice President and his party includ-
of East-West trade in Europe. The proposed   ed Egypt in their tour of the Middle East
multilateral arrangements, however, have   early in 1949, and a special mission, includ-
been difficult to work out and problems   ing an irrigation consultant, visited the
arising in connection with the proposed   country shortly thereafter. They made cer-
Timber Payments Agreements have not yet  tain suggestions with regard to the sub-
been resolved. Certain of the timber im-  stance and administrative coordination of
porting countries had indicated their will-  Egypt's long-term  development program,
ingness to enter into such Agreements pro-  which are being considercd by the Govern-
vided that dollars obtained under the Euro-   ment in reviewing its plans. Meanwhile,
pean Recovery Program could be used for  the Bank is giving active consideration to a
that purpose. It now appears, however,  loan to finance the dollar import require-
that this will not be possible. Those coun-  ments of the initial stage of the Qena proj-
tries are now considering whether or not to  ect.
proceed with such Agreements on a differ-
ent basis. In other respects, negotiations  India
for these loans have reached an advanced  On August 18, 1949, the Bank granted
stage with Yugoslavia, Finland and Czecho-   a loan of $34 million to the Government
slovakia. Poland, in November 1948, ad-  of India to finance the purchase of locomo-
vised the Timber Committee that it could  tives, boilers and locomotive spare parts.
obtain from Western Europe all the equip-  The loan is for a term of 15 years, with
ment it would need and would not require  amortization payments to begin in August
Bank financing for this purpose.        1950. The interest rate is 3%  plus the
ASIA, AFRICA AND THE              usual 1 o commission.
MIDDLE EAST                    The Indian rail transport system has suf-
fered since the war from a serious shortage
Egypt                                   of locomotives, as a result of inadequate
In December 1948, the Government of  wartime replacements and the longer hauls
Egypt submitted informally to the Bank a   necessitated by partition. This has im-
project for irrigating about 250,000 acres   peded the distribution of goods within the
in Qena Province. With presently available  country and the movement of export prod-
water from the Nile already substantially  ucts. Acquisition of the equipment to be
utilized for irrigation purposes, the aim of  financed by the Bank loan will help sub-
[ 29



stantially to ameliorate this situation. The   ance scheme and is making further investi-
Indian Government has recently taken ad-   gations of the other project.
ministrative and operational measures to    Harnessing of India's water resources
increase the efficiency of the railways.  would serve not only to increase the supply
This railway loan is the initial outcome   of cheap electric power, which is a basic
of discussions with the Government of In-   requisite for expanding India's industrial
dia extending over several months. In De-   output, but also to irrigate large areas of
cember 1948, the Government invited the   agricultural land and to reduce flood dam-
Bank to send a mission to survey economic  age. The Bank mission examined two of
conditions and obtain first-hand informa-  these large multi-purpose schemes - the
tion on the need for external assistance in   Bokaro thermal electric plant in the Damo-
the development of Indian resources.  A    dar River Valley in Bihar, and power fa-
mission headed by the Bank's Assistant   cilities in the northern part of East Punjab.
Loan Director, and including a railway   Discussions of a loan for the first stage of
consultant, visited India in January-March   the Bokaro project are expected to begin
1949; it travelled widely and studied the   shortly.
major aspects of the Indian economy. Offi-   These proposed agricultural and power
cials of the Government furnished valuable  schemes would require large amounts of
information and assistance to the mission   local financing. At present, the rate of sav-
and discussions between the Bank repre-  ings in India is low. But the Government,
sentatives and the Government regarding   aware of the threat toits development plans
the latter's policies were frank and con-  inherent in this situation, is preparing plans
structive.                                for the reduction of unproductive expendi-
In addition, the Bank is giving active   tures and is taking measures to create con-
consideration to proposals by the Govern-   ditions which would enhance savings and
ment of India for increasing crop yields   channel them into investment. A gradual
and expanding the area of arable land   increase in the rate of capital formation
through reclamation and irrigation works,  may be expected.
and for the multi-purpose development of     India has repaid almost all debt obli-
water resources.                          gations to the United Kingdom  (which
In view of the serious effects of the defi-   was virtually her only creditor) and has ac-
cit in domestic food production, which   cumulated considerable balances of sterling.
keeps India's standards of nutrition and   However, an adverse balance on current
health at a low level and necessitates costly   account has developed over the past three
imports of food from abroad, measures for   years, as a result of exceptionally heavy
expanding agricultural output are clearly  imports needed to satisfy  accumulated
of prime importance. Two large-scale rec-   demands, for new  capital developments
lamation projects were proposed by the   and to make up the large shortage in
Government for Bank consideration-clear-  the domestic food supply. This unfavor-
ance of one and one-half million acres of   able balance is likely to continue for a time,
jungle and reclamation of four million   but there are grounds for optimism with
weed-infested acres. The Bank is currently   respect to the long-term  prospects. The
engaged in discussions with the Govern-   extent of India's success in eliminating the
ment with regard to a possible loan for the   shortage of food production, in increasing
purchase of machinery for the weed clear-  the volume of her exports in the pursuit of
[ 30 



sound financial and development policies,  development program is administered ef-
and in finding a satisfactory and lasting   fectively and sound economic policies are
basis for economic cooperation with Pakis-  followed. Accordingly, the Bank has agreed
tan will be of major importance in the   to study the possibility of participating, ini-
realization of these prospects.          tially on a modest scale, in financing some
of the development projects recommended
Iran                                     by Overseas Consultants, Inc., for early
In October 1946, the Government of   execution.
Iran informed the Bank of its intention to  In June, a Bank mission made a short
apply for loans for the coordinated devel-  visit to Teheran to observe the progress
opment and modernization of agriculture,   made in establishing the necessary admin-
industry and transport. The Bank indicated   istrative machinery to carry out the Plan.
its willingness to engage in preliminary dis-   On its return, the Bank suggested to Iran
cussions regarding the program and asked   that, with the completion of the OCI over-
for further data on Iran's economic posi-  all report, a definitive schedule of projects
tion.                                    for the first years of the Plan should be
Initial investigations by the Bank's staff   prepared with the help of OCI, for study
showed a need for careful analsyis of the   by the Bank.
appropriateness, relative priority and inter-
relationships of the various projects inciud-  iraq
ed in the Iranian program. In August 1948,  The Government of Iraq made an in-
Iran requested the Bank to advise in the   formal approach to the Bank in May 1947,
selection of a number of foreign experts in   and in October of that year submitted eco-
various fields to assist the Supreme Plan-   nomic and financial data about the coun-
ning Board in working out better inte-  try. At the same time, representatives of
grated plans. In reply the Bank suggested   the Government informed the Bank that
the selection of a coordinating consultant   Iraq was considering the early establish-
to pull together the work of the various   ment of a Development Board, which
experts needed, and that from the stand-   would have responsibility for coordinating
point of continuity over a period of years  the plans for various projects into an inte-
an established organization might be pref-  grated development program. In reply the
erable to an individual adviser for this   Bank agreed that early discussions would
purpose. The Government accepted this  be desirable  regarding  projects which
suggestion and named Overseas Consult-   might be suitable for Bank financing and
ants, Inc., a consortium of outstanding en-   expressed its willingness to make staff
gineering firms, to study Iran's Seven-Year   members availablc from time to time, at
Plan and to make recommendations as to  Iraq's request, for consultation with the
its implementation.                      proposed Development Board.
In March 1949, the Vice President vis-   The Bank's representative in the Middle
ited Iran to survey the general situation.   East visited Iraq in December 1948 and
He arrived at the conclusion that Iran's  January 1949. He was presented with a
resources and foreign exchange position   request for a loan to cover the foreign ex-
were such as to provide grounds for con-   change requirements of a number of devel-
siderable optimism about the country's de-   opment projects which it was proposed to
velopment potentialities, provided that the   carry out over a four-year period. The
[ 31 ]



funds requested were to be used for flood   situation in view of changes in the political
control and irrigation projects, a silo proj-   picture in the Levant and in the light of
ect, railways and roads. In April 1949,   newly acquired data on the Lebanese econ-
staff members of the Bank visited Iraq for   omy. After analysis of the findings of these
general discussions with officials of the   two missions, the Bank informed the Leb-
Government. The latter were informed   anese Government that, subject to the sub-
that if the public finances were put on a   mission of satisfactory projects, preferably
sound basis and an appropriately consti-  in the field of agriculture, the Bank would
tuted Development Board established to   be willing to consider opening negotiations
coordinate and execute the development   promptly for a loan of modest size.
program, the Bank was prepared to give
early consideration to a loan for flood con-   The Philippines
trol projects.                               The Philippine Republic was the first
A Bank mission, including an engineer-     Th  Phlppn  Reulcws h is
country in Asia to enter into close working
ing adviser, was sent to Iraq in June of   relations with the Bank. In November 1947,
this year to initiate an economic survey of  the Government informed the Bank that it
the country, investigate the technical status
of the flood control plans, and advise the   wshedcto adi    thefn       pofrit rn-
>   .                          ~~~~~~~~struction and developmnent program; and
Government in a general way on the estab-   the following January, on the invitation of
lishment of the Development Board. Dur-  the Government, the Bank sent a fact-find-
ing the course of the mission's visit, discus-  ing missin  t mhe a genera  fact The
sion  als  tok plce  ith  egad tothe ing mission to make a general survey. The
sions also tookplacewithregardtmission's conclusions pointed out that the
financial requirements for the further de-   factors which had produced a favorable
velopment of the countrv's railroad system.
The report of the mission is now under   foreign exchange position in the Philippines
study.                                     were temporary, and stressed the need to
conserve foreign exchange, restrict infla-
The Lebanon                                tionary local financing, take measures to
In April 1948, a representative of the   lessen the impact of the expected reduction
Government of the Lebanon made prelim-   in dollar receipts, and secure technical aid
inary inquiries concerning a loan to finance   in the planning of specific development
a series of agricultural projects. The proj-   projects.
ects included irrigation works, purchase of  In July 1948, in response to a suggestion
farm machinery, construction of grain han-   from the Bank, further talks were held in
dling facilities and an agricultural training   Washington with a Philippine technical
program.                                   and economic mission. These discussions
At the invitation of the Government a   covered almost every important aspect of
Bank mission, including an agricultural  the country's development program and its
specialist loaned by FAO for the purpose,   economic and financial problems. In Au-
visited the Lebanon in September 1948 to   gust 1948, the Government submitted a for-
survey its economic position, particularly   mal application for a loan to cover the ex-
its ability to absorb and service a foreign   ternal costs of several hydro-electric proj-
loan. A member of the Bank's staff visited   ects and a chemical fertilizer plant to be
the Lebanon again in April 1949, for the   established in connection with one of the
purpose of making a new appraisal of the   power projects. In November, the Secre-
[ 32 ]



tary of Finance informed the Bank by let-   Overseas  Resources Development Act,
ter of the Government's intention to pro-   1948, and authorized, inter alia, to make
ceed rapidly to put into effect the economic  equity investments in commercial under-
and financial measures which had been  takings in the dependent overseas territories
recommended by the Joint Philippine-   of the United Kingdom-wrote to the Bank
American Finance Commission. The Bank   outlining the Corporation's plans and re-
then informed the Government that, in re-   questing consideration of a loan to finance
liance upon these assurances, it was pre-  the dollar costs of establishing an equip-
pared to enter into negotiations for a loan   ment pool, which would serve a number of
of up to $15 million towards the foreign ex-   CDC projects in various British colonies
change costs of two of the hydro-electric  and dependencies. Discussions ensued in
projects on the island of Luzon, provided   Washington arid London to define the form
that their technical and economic merits  and agree on the terms of a loan and the
were satisfactorily established. The Bank   necessary government guarantee. An initial
stated further that it would be prepared to  loan to CDC to assist in financing its equip-
give careful consideration to the financing   ment needs to the end of 1950 may be
of additional projects when there had been   negotiated shortly.
an adequate opportunity to observe the     The Overseas Food Corporation - an-
measure of the Government's success in   other corporation established under the
carrying out the Joint Finance Commis-   Overseas  Resources  Development Act,
sion's recommendations, and when the   1948, but independent of and separate from
technical preparation of additional projects   CDC-has also indicated its interest in ob-
had been completed.                      taining a Bank loan to finance the purchase
Further discussions concerning the hydro-   of ground-clearing and agricultural ma-
electric projects await the submission of the   chinery in connection with a project for
technical project reports and receipt of sat-  raising ground nuts in East Africa. Infor-
isfactory evidence that the economic and   mation about the revised OFC program is
financial measures recommended by the   expected shortly, when a detailed examina-
Joint Finance Commission are being imple-  tion of the project will be undertaken.
mented.                                    There have been some informal discus-
sions in Washington and Paris between the
Bank and the French authorities, with re-
In March 1948, a representative of the   gard to the possibility of loans for develop-
United Kingdom Colonial Office informal-   ment projects in the French colonies. The
ly discussed with the Bank the possibility of  French Government has brought a number
Bank financing for development operations   of projects to the Bank's attention, but ac-
in British colonies and dependent terri-  tive consideration of them  has awaited
tories. Some of the policy questions in-  resolution of certain broad policy questions.
volved in loans for colonial projects were
explored in preliminary fashion at that  Ethiopia
time, and further informal conversations
took place in London in July.              In February 1948, a representative of
On September 28, 1948, the Chairman   the Government of Ethiopia presented in-
of the Colonial Development Corporation   formally to the Bank the Government's pro-
- a corporation  established under the  jected development program, which in-
[ 33 ]



cluded a wide range of projects, particu-   Washington of an adviser to the Ethiopian
larly in the field of transportation. The   Government at the end of the year, pro-
Bank requested certain general economic  vided opportunities for further conversa-
data to serve as the basis for more detailed  tions of a general character, but no loan
discussions. A visit to Ethiopia by the   discussions have yet begun pending receipt
Bank's representative in the Middle East  of the economic information which the
in the Fall of 1948, and the presence in   Government has undertaken to compile.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND USE OF LOAN PROCEEDS
During the fiscal year ended June 30,  deficit, was allocated to Surplus. The Ex-
1949, the Bank received the full amount  ecutive Directors are recommending to the
due as interest, commission and other  Board of Governors that the net income for
charges on its loans; its income from such  the fiscal year ended JunIe 30, 1949, in the
charges, on an accrual basis, amounted to  amount of $10,610,247, also be allocated to
$21,669,646. In addition, $600,000 of the   Surplus.
principal of the Dutch shipping loans has  Total disbursements made on the Bank's
been repaid, this being the first and only  loans up to June 30, 1949, amount to the
amortization payment due up to the end of  equivalent of $526,291,014. From June 30
the fiscal year.                       through August 20, further disbursements,
As shown in the Statement of Income   amounting to the equivalent of $11,893,035,
and Expenses which appears as Appendix   were made as follows: Belgian Loan
B to this report, the Bank's operations for  $4,029,608; Brazilian Loan $5,878,923;
the twelve months ended June 30, 1949,  Chilean Agricultural Loan $450,000; Chil-
resulted in an excess of income over ex-  ean Hydro-Electric Power Development
penses amounting to $10,610,247, exclu-  Loan $540,572; and Mexican Loans $993,-
sive of loan commissions credited to the   932, of which $613,381 was for The Mexi-
Special Reserve. The total excess of in-  can Light and Power Company project
come over expenses for the entire period   and $380,551 was for the Federal Elec-
of the Bank's operations up to June 30,  tricity Commission project.
1949, amounted to $13,641,094. In addi-    Supervision of the end use of goods
tion to this net income, $4,989,210 was set  financed out of the proceeds of the Bank's
aside in the Special Reserve during the year  initial loans has proceeded along the lines
ended June 30, 1949; the total amount in  indicated in the Third Annual Report.
the Special Reserve was thereby increased   Policies and procedures have been estab-
to $8,074,141.                         lished, in cooperation with the borrowers
In accordance with Resolution No. 35   concerned, for the supervision of loans
passed by the Board of Governors at the   granted for the development of specific
Third Annual Meeting, $3,030,847, being   projects. Under these arrangements the
the net income of the Bank at June 30,  Bank not only checks all disbursements to
1948 after deducting the June 30, 1947  see that they accord with the loan agree-
34



ments, but also receives regular progress                           Amount
reports on the projects which it is financ-  Area of               (in millions
ing, so that it may be in a position at all  Expenditure        of U. S. Dollars)
times to compare the progress actually       United States           $400.4
achieved with the estimates on the basis     Canada                     14.4
of which the loans were granted.
As in previous years about three-quarters        Amerc5.4
of the total expenditures financed by Bank   Europe                     55.3
loans were made in the United States. The    Near East                   2.5
geographical distribution of total expendi-  Africa                      2.2
tures financed by the Bank up to June 30,    Far East                    .1
1949, in round numbers by groups of
countries, was as follows:                        Total              $526.3
MARKETING ACTIVITIES
Additions to Loanable Resources          four mutual savings banks, $16 million
Marketing activitie durg tprincipal amount of 3 %T sinking fund bonds
Marketing~~~~~~ ~ aciiisdrigtepro    of the Kingdom of Belgium received under
covered by this report have involved main-      .               . 
ly preparations for future security issues  the Belgian loan; the services of two invest-
rather than new offerings. Sufficient funds   ment banking firms designated by the Bel-
were available throughout the period to   gian Government were employed to carry
out the negotiations involved in this sale.
meet all loan requirements, and no sales   The sale price on both the shipping notes
of direct obligations of the Bank were nec-   and the Belgian bonds was par and accrued
essary. As of June 30, 1949, current funds  interest.
on hand available for lending aggregated   A total of $28 million has thus been
approximately $390 million, which appears  transferred from the Bank's loan portfolio
ample to meet near term needs.           to private investment accounts through
Replenishment of $19.9 million in funds   sales of guaranteed obligations. Although
loaned or committed by the Bank was ef-  the amounts of these portfolio sales to date
fected through sales of securities held in the   have been small in comparison with the
loan portfolio, all of which were sold with   Bank's public issues, they have provided a
the Bank's unconditional guarantee. The   test of the market for credits guaranteed
balance of $3.9 million of mortgage notes   by the Bank and have afforded valuable ex-
received by the Bank under its loans to four   perience in the technique of such offerings.
Dutch shipping companies were sold to sev-   While portfolio sales may continue to be
eral mutual savings banks; this sale com-   useful as a secondary means of approach-
pleted the disposal of the $12 million of  ing the market in addition to direct bor-
such notes acquired under those loans, the   rowing operations, the present expectation
first $8.1 million having been sold to a   of the Bank is that they will not be em-
group of commercial and mutual savings   ployed frequently.
banks in August 1948. The Bank also sold,  In addition to the sums raised in this
to a leading life insurance company and   manner, there have been encouraging,
[ 35 1



though moderate, additions to the Bank's  posed of a part of the bonds to two com-
loanable resources as a result of consents   mercial banks located in Switzerland. As
given by member governments to the   mentioned above, guaranteed obligations
Bank's use. of a part of the 18%  portion   comprised $16 million of Belgian bonds
of their capital subscriptions paid in in   and $11.4 million (net after repayment' of
local currency. During the past year, Can-   $600,000) of Dutch shipping notes.
ada consented to use by the Bank in its
lending operations of $8 million, the United   Market Record of Bank Obligations
Kingdom consented to the use of 500,000    During the summer of 1948 prices of
and Denmark consented to the use of   high-grade bonds in the United States
599,876.25 kroner, from this source. It may   market moved to lower levels and there
be hoped that the change from a sellers'  was considerable uncertainity as to future
to a buyers' market in international trade   price trends. Since that time, however,
may facilitate the Bank's efforts to secure  the market has improved notably. During
additional consents in the future. It is  this improvement the Bank's issues have
plainly desirable that the non-dollar por-   displayed a better-than-average recovery,
tion of the Bank's paid-in capital should  thereby indicating that the bonds are now
increasingly become a substantial source of   considered seasoned securities. The bonds
loanable funds in order to reinforce the   of both issues are widely distributed among
Bank's international character and to en-   established investing institutions, large and
able it to realize its potentialities more fully.  small. As a group mutual savings banks
During the past year the Bank has given   hold the largest amount of both of the
further consideration to the possibility of  Bank's dollar issues, and life insurance com-
an offering of dollar bonds in one or more   panies and commercial banks follow in
countries outside the United States, and of  that order. Both issues are selling well
the sale of bonds in currencies other than   above par, with few bonds being offered for
dollars, although no definite decision has  sale and a mubstantial demand remaining
been reached with regard to any particu-   unsatisfied.
lar sale. Any issue sold outside the United  For the foreseeable future the United
lar sale. Any issue sold outside the United States will necessarily continue to be the
States at the present time would be small  major source of investment funds for the
In amount.
Bank. In order to establish a broad and
As of June 30, 1949, the Bank had direct  sound market in the United States for its
and guaranteed obligations outstanding in   bonds, the Bank has carried on an exten-
the principal amount of $281,355,788. Of   sive program of information to acquaint in-
this sum $250 million of direct obligations   vestors not only with the character of and
was payable in dollars as follows: $ 100 mil-  security behind its obligations but also with
lion Ten Year 2%47 Bonds due July 15,  its general policies and operations. Periodic
1957; and $150 million Twenty-Five Year  information conferences, held at the Bank's
3% Bonds due July 15, 1972. In addition,   headquarters in Washington, have been at-
the Bank had outstanding Swiss Francs 17  tended by more than 400 persons con-
million of 2/2To Swiss Franc Serial Bonds   cemed with institutional investment, in-
of 1948, due 1953-54. The latter issue was   cluding representatives of investment bank-
sold in 1948 to the Bank for International  ing firms, commercial and savings banks,
Settlements in Basle, which has since dis-  insurance companies, and state banking
[ 36 ]



and insurance departments. Members of        For savings banks in 29 of the 36 states
the Bank's staff have kept in close contact   having such institutions, and in the Dis-
with the investment community through   trict of Columbia;
attendance at meetings of financial organi-  For insurance companies in 36 states;
zations and visits to financial and invest-  For trust funds in 33 states and the Dis-
ment centers throughout the United States.  trict of Columbia.
Legislative Program                          There is less occasion for gratification in
The Third Annual Report described   connection with the efforts of the Bank to
briefly the program  undertaken by the   have its securities made eligible investments
Bank to obtain national and state legisla-  in countries other than the United States.
tion  and  administrative  action  in  the   A number of practical problems are in-
United States in order to make the Bank's  volved; for example, it is difficult for the
obligations  eligible  for investment by   Bank to obtain a clear picture of the status
banks, insurance companies and other in-   of its obligations under the laws of its vari-
stitutional investors. This program  has   ous member countries, and even more diffi-
been continued during the period covered   cult to obtain current information regard-
by this report with gratifying success.   ing proposals to amend applicable insur-
In June 1949, the United States Con-   ance or banking legislation. Nonetheless
gress enacted, and the President approved,  the results to date have been less than
legislation authorizing national banks and   might reasonably have been anticipated.
state banks which are members of the Fed-   So far as the Bank has been informed, only
eral Reserve System to deal in and under-  four of its member countries, other than
write obligations issued by the Bank, and
designating securities issued or fully guar-                                 . .f.i
anteed by the Bank as exempted securities   action to qualify the Bank's securities for
under the securities acts of the United   investment. In Turkey the Ministry of
States. The Bank expects that this legisla-   Finance has registered the Bank's bonds on
tion will contribute to a broader market in  the Istanbul Stock Exchange, with all the
the United States for its obligations. The   privileges and registration fee exemptions
Bank appreciates the cooperation and as-   accorded to Turkish state obligations. Aus-
sistance of the United States Government  tralia and Canada have taken action to
in obtaining enactment of this legislation.   make the Bank's bonds permissible invest-
Since the date of the Third Annual Re-   ments for insurance companies and South
port 11 states, by legislative or administra-   Africa has made them eligible for invest-
tive action, authorized institutional invest-   ment by commercial banks.
ment in the Bank's securities. Subject to    The Bank attaches great importance to
the qualifications and conditions contained
in th  vaiu.tttsadrlns  h    the legal status of its obligations in various
inthe varou  stttsadrlns*h    markets of the world.  A more detailed
Bank's securities are or soon will be legally   markets of the wrld.   atmor   detl
authorized investments for institutions as
follows:                                   ommendations as to action which might be
For all national banks, and for other  taken by member countries are the subject
commercial banks in 45 states and the Dis-   of a separate report to the Board of Gov-
trict of Columbia;                         ernors.
[ 37



MISCELLANEOUS
Management and Organization                The only changes made during the year
resigned as Presi-  under review in the Bank's organization
Mr.t Jofthe Bank J. d cC hairoa  .    and the functions of its several departments
dxenutiof threcBank and Cairman of the9 a have been a transfer of responsibility for
Executive Directors on May 18, 1949, and
his resignation became effective on July 1   budgeting and budgetary control from the
1949. He was succeeded by Mr. Eugene R.  Treasurer's Department to the Administra-
tion Department ancl a concentration of
Black who had been United States Exec-  t.o  Depa         a
utive Director of the Bank since March   the responsibility for the technical analysis
1947. The Bank wishes to record its deep   of projects in the office of the Engineering
appreciation of Mr. McCloy's distinguished   Adviser, which is part of the Loan Depart-
service and of the great contribution which   ment.
he made during the crucial formative       As of August 20, 1949, the staff of the
period of the Bank's operations.         Bank consisted of 392 regular members of
21 nationalities.
Mr. E. Fleetwood Dunstan resigned as
Director of Marketing on December 21,  Relationship With Other International
1948, and was succeeded on April 1, 1949   Organizations
by Mr. Norman M. Tucker. Mr. Dunstan
joined the Bank in April 1947, directed the  The  Bank continues to maintain close
Bank's initial marketing of securities and   liaison with the Interinational Monetary
assisted in the establishment of a broad in-   Fund, with the various organs of the United
vestment market for its securities.      Nations and with other international or-
On March 1, 1949, Lieutenant General   ganizations on matters of mutual interest.
R. A. Wheeler (Ret.), formerly chief of    TheagreementbetweentheBankandthe
Engineers, United States Army, assumed   United Nations, which has been in effect
the position of Engineering Adviser to the   since November 15, 1947, continues to
Bank. He succeeded Mr. Michael J. Madi-  prove satisfactory. The Bank is in accord
gan who, serving as a consultant, had  .   with the conclusion of the Secretary-
rected the Bank's engineering activities   General of the United Nations, in his report
since August 1947.                       to the Economic and Social Council on the
general working of the agreements between
the United Nations and the Specialized
loyal and valuable services rendered by   Agencies, that no changes in the agreement
Mr. Dunstan and Mr. Madigan.             are required.
Mr. Chester A. McLain resigned as Gen-   In addition to attendance at meetings of
eral Counsel on August 19, 1949, effective   the United Nations General Assembly,
August 31, 1949, to be succeeded by Mr.  representatives of the Bank have regularly
Davidson Sommers as General Counsel.  participated in meetings of the Economic
Mr. Ansel F. Luxford has been appointed   and Social Council of the United Nations
Associate General Counsel. The Bank is  and its subsidiary bodies, and have pre-
deeply indebted to Mr. McLain for his  pared studies on subjects of mutual interest
exceptional contributions to the success of  for their use. The President of the Bank
the Bank during his three years as General   participated in the meeting of the Eco-
Counsel.                                 nomic Committee of the Economic and
[ 38 ]



Social Council,  which  discussed  the   and sessions of the UNESCO  Executive
Third Annual Report of the Bank, and   Board in Paris. In addition, the Bank
in meetings of the Fourth Session of the   was represented at the FAO Annual Con-
Economic and Employment Commission.  ference in Washington in November 1948,
The Bank was also represented at meetings   and at the Paris meeting of the FAO Coun-
of the two sub-commissions of the Eco-   cil in June 1949. FAO has been most co-
nomic and Employment Commission, at   operative with the Bank in supplying tech-
meetings of the Economic Commission for   nical experts to assist the work of the Bank
Europe and at the second session of the   on agricultural projects in a number of
Economic Commission for Latin America.  different countries. Mention has already
To assist in the work of the Economic Com-   been made of the cooperation received
mission for Asia and the Far East, the Bank   from WHO and the Fund, as well as from
lent the services of one of its economists to   FAO, in connection with the Bank's mis-
this Commission for several months. At the   sion to Colombia.
request of the United Nations, the Bank
prepared an analysis of methods of financ-   Advisory Council
ing the economic development of under-    On February 15, 1949, the Executive
developed countries which was presented to   Directors adopted rules for the proceedings
the Economic and Social Council at its  of the Advisory Council, which are being
Ninth Session.                          submitted for review by the Board of Gov-
The Bank has continued to participate  ernors in a separate report. This separate
actively in the work of the Administrative   report also covers the Second Annual Meet-
Committee on Coordination (which con-  ing of the Council, which was held at the
sists of the Secretary-General of the United   principal office of the Bank from July 18
Nations and the executive heads of the spe-  to July 22, 1949, and makes certain recom-
cialized agencies) and of its various sub-   mendations with regard to the Council.
sidiary committees. The most important
task undertaken by the ACC during the   TrainingProgram
past year was the preparation of a report  At the beginning of 1949, the Bank in-
to the Economic and Social Council, at its  augurated a course of training for junior
request, entitled "Technical Assistance for   professional and administrative staff, last-
Economic Development." Members of the  ing for about one year. The initial phase of
Bank's staff took an active part in the draft-  the training consists of indoctrination lec-
ing of those parts of the document relat-  tures and of short periods of observation in
ing to the objectives, conditions and   each of the Bank's departments; thereafter
administrative arrangements governing the   each trainee is assigned to one department
provision of technical assistance through   for a seven- or eight-month period and par-
international channels. The Bank also par-  ticipates in the regular work of the depart-
ticipated in the preparatory work and   ment.
organization of the International Civil    For the first course under this program,
Service Advisory Board and is defraying   beginning in January 1949, seven persons
part of the cost of that Board.         were selected, one each from the following
Bank representatives attended meetings   member countries: Australia, Belgium,
in Geneva of the ILO Governing Board and   Canada, France, Greece, Guatemala and
of the Permanent Migration Committee  the Netherlands. The Bank is selecting a
[ 39 1



similar group of trainees for a second course  foresee all contingencies which may arise.
to begin in 1950.                       If, therefore, unanticipated conditions de-
velop which necessitate changes in pro-
Membership and Subscriptions             grams, appropriate adjustments in the bud-
With the admission of Thailand on   get will be required.
May 3, 1949, membership in the Bank has     .      .
been increased from 47 to 48. The Bank's  Additional Reports to Board of Governors
total subscribed capital was thereby in-    In addition to this Annual Report, the
creased from $8,336 million as of August  following reports are being submitted for
31, 1948, to $8,348.5 million as of August  consideration of the Board of Governors
20, 1949. The period in which Liberia may   at the Fourth Annual Meeting:
accept membership has been extended by     1 ) Report on the Allocation of Net In-
the Executive Directors to September 30,      come;
1949.                                      2) Report on the Advisory Council;
Financial Statements and Reports           3 ) Report of the Ad Hoc Committee of
the Board of Governors;
Attached as Appendices A to G, inclu-
sive, are a Balance Sheet showing the finan-  4) Report on Status of International
cial position of the Bank as of June 30, 1949,  Bank Obligations for Investment by
a Comparative Statement of Income and         Institutional Investors in Countries
a Comprativ  Statment o Incoe andOther than the United States.
Expenses for the Fiscal Years Ended June
30, 1948 and June 30, 1949, an Opinion   Appendices
of Independent Auditor, and a number of    In addition to the appendices containing
schedules giving further details concerning   the financial statements and reports and
the assets and liabilities, capital and finan-  the administrative budget of the Bank, to
cial operations of the Bank.            which reference has already been made,
Administrative Budget                    there are included in this report, for the
There is attached as Appendix H the  information of the Board of Governors, the
administrative budget of the Bank for the   following appendices:
fiscal year ending June 30, 1950. This bud-  Appendix I-Governors and Alternates
get has been prepared by the President and   as of August 20, 1949.
approved by the Executive Directors in     Appendix J-Voting Power and Sub-
accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws    scriptions of Member Countries as of
of the Bank.                                 August 20, 1949.
The budget as presented represents the  Appendix K-Executive Directors and
best estimate of the management and Exec-    Alternates and their Voting Power as
utive Directors of the minimum  cost of      of August 20,1949.
effective administration for the current   Appendix L-Principal Officers of the
fiscal year. It is not possible, however, to  Bank as of August 20, 1949.
1 40 1



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I



APPENDIX A
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1949
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Other Depositories-NOTE A
Member currency-United States ..............................................             $   17,809,756
Member currency-other than United States .........................                          117,736,182       $  135,545,938
Investment Securities
United States Government obligations
($445,553,000 face amount at cost) .................... ...............               $ 444,843,550
Accrued interest ...................................................................           1,643,637         446,487,187
Receivable from Members
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes-
NOTES A and B
Payable in member currency-United States ..................   $   40,785,000
Payable in member currency-other than United States               810,567,203       $  851,352,203
Calls on subscriptions to capital stock
Payment deferred-NOTE  C ............... ..............................                  4,915,000          856,267,203
Loans Outstanding Held by Bank-NOTEs D and E                                                                        622,100,000
Accrued Interest, Commitment and Service Charges on Loans-
NOTE E                                                                                                              3,894,208
Miscellaneous Receivables and Other Assets                                                                              221,022
Special Reserve Fund Assets-NOTE F
Due from  Banks-member currency-United States ..............                             $         9,671
Investment securities-United States Government obligations
($6,906,000   face  amount  at  cost) ..........................................            6,887,067
Accrued loan commissions-NOTE  E.... ....................................                      1,177,403           8,074,141
Staff Retirement Plan Assets-NOTE G                                                                                     715,848
Total Assets                                                                                     $2,073,305,547
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including $3,129,465
bond interest                                                                                              $    3,409,690
Undisbursed balance of loans
On loans held by Bank ....................................................             $  107,808,986
On loans represented by obligations of borrowers sold
under guarantee  ................................ ....................                   16,000,000         123,808,986
Bonds outstanding
Payable in United States Dollars--NOTE H
Ten Year 2414%  Bonds, due Julv 15, 1957 ......................                     $  100,000,000
Twenty-Five Year 3%  Bonds, due July 15, 1972 ..........                               150,000,000
Pavable in Swiss Francs
2'A2% Swiss Franc Serial Bonds of 1948, due 1953-54
(Swiss Francs 17,000,000) ..............................................               3,955,788         253,955,788
Special Reserve-NOTE F                                                                                                8,074,141
Stafg Retirement Plan Reserve-NOTE G                                                                                    715,848
Capital
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 83,485 shares ...................................................    $8,348,500,000
Less-Uncalled portion of subscriptions-NOTE  I ..........    6,678,800,000          $1,669,700,000
Excess of income over expenses
At June 30, 1948 ....................................................$    3,030,847
The twelve months ended June 30, 1949    .            ...............  10,610,247          13,641,094        1,683,341,094
Contingent Liability-Obligations of Borrowers Outstanding
Sold under Guarantee-NOTE  D ........................  $11,400,000
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital                                                          $2,073,305,547
[ 42 ]



APPENDIX B
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1948 and June 30, 1949
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statenents)
July I -June 30
1947-1948               1948-1949
Income
Interest  earned   on   investment  securities ............................................................                              $   3,593,623            $  4,893,360
Income from loans:
Interest  ............................................................                                                                   9,917,304              15,850,003
Commitment  charges   ............................................................                                                       2,136,027                   757,110
Commissions    ............................................................                                                              3,051,478               4,989,210
Service   charges   ............................................................                                                               ....                    73,323
Other   income   ............................................................                                                                       5,546                    4,617
Gross   Income   ............................................................                                            $18,703,978             $26,567,623
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commission appropriated to Special Reserve
(Note   F)   ............................................................                                                               3,051,478                4,989,210
Gross Income Less Reserve Deduction ................................................  $15,652,500   $21,578,413
Expenses
Administrative expenses:
Personal  services  ............................................................                                                      $   2,378,403          $   2,667,476
Expense allowances-Executive Directors and Alternates ............................                                                              6,546                  12,504
Fees and  compensation ............................................................                                                         107,171                  160,542
Representation               ............................................................                                                     24,015                   31,187
Travel ............................................................                                                                         423,966                  332,670
Supplies and  material ............................................................                                                           65,233                   26,884
Rents  and  utility  services ............................................................                                                  377,046                  330,151
Communication  services ............................................................                                                          88,956                   80,030
Furniture   and   equipment .............................................................                                                     97,962                   33,105
Motor  vehicles  ............................................................                                                                 10,522                     6,649
Books  and   library  services ............................................................                                                   14,775                  63,821
Printing  and  binding ............................................................                                                           72,866                   34,115
Contributions  to  staff  benefits .............................................................                                            315,784                  2     70,577
Insurance   ............................................................                                                                      38,292                   11,312
Handling  and  storage  of gold ............................................................                                                  25,662                     7,046
Other  expenses   ............................................................                                                                  1,683                       538
Total   Administrative   Expenses ................................................I...........    $  4,048,882                                   $  4,068,607
Interest on bonds ............................................................                                                               6,232,963               6,848,895
Bond registration, issuance and other financial expenses ..................................                                                  1,276,003                     50,664
Gross  Expenses   ..................$                                                                                           5..........................................  11,557,848  $10,968,166
Excess of Income Over Expenses ............................................................                                                  $ 4,094,652   $10,610,247
[ 43



APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1949
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Total Loans    Obligations of   Loans        Undisbursed
Dates of Loan                   Effective   Borrowers Sold   Outstanding     Balances of
Borrowers and Guarantors  Agreements     Maturities  Less Repayments Under Guarantee Held by Bank      Loans
Kingdom of Belgium      March 1, 1949    1953-1969    $ 16,000,000    $ 16,000,000      ....        $ 16,000,000
Loan Guaranteed by
United States of
Brazil
Brazilian Traction  January 27, 1949   1953-1974    75,000,000       ....        $ 75,000,000     60,133,038
Loans Guaranteed by
Republic of Chile
Fomento and Endesa  March 25, 1948    1953-1968     13,500,000       ....          13,500,000     13,495,472
Fomento             March 25, 1948    1950-1955      2,500,000       ....           2,500,000      1,000,000
Kingdom of Denmark      August 22, 1947   1953-1972     40,000,000       ....         40,000,000       ....
Loan Guaranteed by
Republic of France
Credit National    May 9, 1947     1952-1977     250,000,000       ....        250,000,000       ....
Grand-Duchy of
Luxembourg            August 28, 1947   1949-1972     12,000,000       ....          12,000,000      2,010,682
Loans Guaranteed by
United Mexican
States
Financiera and
Comisi6n          January 6, 1949    1953-1973    24,100,000       ....         24,100,000      23,978,201
Financiera and
Comisi6n          January 6, 1949  Dec. 31, 1949    10,000,000     ....         10,000,000       7,191,593
Kingdom of
The Netherlands       August 7, 1947    1954-1972    191,044,212       ....         191,044,212
May 25, 1948     1953-1954       3,955,788       ....          3,955,788       ....
Loans Guaranteed
by Kingdom of
The Netherlands
N.V. Stoomvaart
Maatschappij,
"Nederland"       July 15, 1948    1949-1958       3,800,000      3,800,000       ....
N.V. Vereenigde
Nederlandsche
Scheepvaart-
maatschappij      July 15, 1948    1949-1958       1,900,000      1,900,000       ....           ....
N.V. NCdCrlandsch-
Amerikaansche
Stoomvaart-
maatschappij,
"Holland-Amer-
ika Lijn"         July 15, 1948    1949-1958       1,900,000      1,900,000       ....           ....
N.V. Rotter-
damsche Lloyd     July 15, 1948    1949-1958       3,800,000      3,800,000       ....           ....
Total-NOTES D and E                             $649,500,000    $ 27,400,000    $622,100,000    $123,808,986
[44]



APPENDIX D
Statement of Members' Currencies Held by the Bank
June 30, 1949
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Total
Amount Expressed                                     Expressed in
Unit of      in Member Currency         Rate of Exchange           United States
Name of Member              Currency          (Restricfed)              (Note A)                   Dollars
Australia                   Pound                  111,690          $ =       0.310174           $   360,089
Austria                     Schilling              898,200           $ =     10.00                     89,820
Belgium                     Franc                14,358,220          $ =     43.8275                  327,608
Bolivia                     Boliviano              516,200           $ =     42.00                     12,291
Brazil                      Cruzeiro            349,559,587          $ =     18.50                 18,895,113
Canada                      Dollar                1,045,214          $ =      1.00                  1,045,214
Chile                       Pcso                195,181,196          $ =     31.00                  6,296,168
China                       Gold Yuan            21,581,589          $=      20.00                  1,079,079
Colombia                    Peso                 12,279,397          $=       1.949981              6,297,188
Costa Rica                  Colon                 2,014,650          $ =      5.615                   358,798
Cuba                        Peso                    62,990           $ =      1.00                     62,990
Czechoslovakia              Koruna               11,095,972          $ =     50.00                    221,919
Denmark                     Krone                  497,160           $ =      4.79901                 103,596
Dominican Republic          Peso                      3,349          $ =      1.00                      3,349
Ecuador                     Sucre                 7,776,550         $ =      13.50                    575,300
Egypt                       Pound                  770,590           $=       0.241955              3,184,850
El Salvador                 Colon                  445,880           $ =      2.50                    178,352
Ethiopia                    Dollar                1,340,388         $=        2.484472                539,506
Finland                     Markka              930,018,074          $ =    136.00                  6,838,368
France                      Franc               192,010,613          $=    214.392                    895,605
Greece                      Drachma          22,500,000,000          $ =  5,000.00                  4,500,000
Guatemala                   Quetzal                356,420           $ =      1.00                    356,420
Honduras                    Lempira                  3,600          $ =       2.00                      1,800
Iceland                     Krona                 1,165,263         $=        6.48885                 179,579
India                       Rupee                 2,319,825          $=       3.30852                 701,167
Iran                        Rial                  1,940,380          $=      32.25                     60,167
Iraq                        Dinar                    2,133           $ =      0.248139                  8,597
Italy                       Lira              7,287,494,669          $=    225.00                  32,388,865
Lebanon                     Pound                 1,772,146          $=       2.19148                 808,653
Luxembourg                  Franc                  693,177           $ =     43.8275                   15,816
Mexico                      Peso                101,191,492          $=       8.65                 11,698,438
Netherlands                 Guilder               1,215,099          $=       2.65285                 458,035
Nicaragua                   Cordoba                720,000           $=       5.00                    144,000
Norway                      Krone                  436,544           $=       4.96278                  87,964
Panama                      Balboa                  36,000           $ =      1.00                     36,000
Paraguay                    Guarani                773,109           $=       3.09                    250,197
Peru                        Sol                    192,549           $=       6.50                     29,623
Philippine Republic         Peso                  2,392,467          $=       2.00                  1,196,233
Poland                      Zloty                21,992,852          $=    100.00                     219,929
Syria                       Pound                   25,592           $ =      2.19148                  11,678
Thailand                    Baht                 22,332,391          $ =      9.92558               2,249,988
Turkey                      Lira                    199,825          $ =      2.80                     71,366
Union of South Africa       Pound                   44,189           $ =      0.248139                178,083
United Kingdom              Pound                 1,059,603          $ =      0.248139              4,270,199
United States               Dollar               16,964,177                 None                   16,964,177
Uruguay                     Peso                  2,863,418          $=       1.5190495              1,885,006
Venezuela                   Bolivar               4,568,287          $=       3.35                   1,363,668
Yugoslavia                  Dinar               359,975,397          $=      50.00                  7,199,508
Restricted Currency (NOTE K) .$134,700,359
Unrestricted Currency (All held in United States Dollars) .845,579
Total (Note J) ...........$.......... j135,545,938
[ 45



APPENDIX  E
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock.
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Amounts Paid In
Subscriptions                                   (Note A)
In Currency of
Member Other
Amount              United States          Than United
Member                Shares            (Note L)                Dollars             States Dollars
I Australia                   2,000          $ 200,000,000           $  4,000,000         $   360,131
2 Austria                       500              50,000,000             1,000,000               90,000
3 Belgium                      2,250            225,000,000             4,500,000             2,344,422
4  Bolivia                       70               7,000,000               140,000               12,600
5 Brazil                       1,050            105,000,000             2,100,000            18,900,000
6 Canada                       3,250            325,000,000             6,500,000             1,585,000
7 Chile                         350              35,000,000               700,000             6,300,000
8  China                       6,000            600,000,000             9,000,000             1,080,000
9  Colombia                     350              35,000,000               700,000             6,300,000
10  Costa Rica                    20               2,000,000                40,000              360,000
11  Cuba                         350              35,000,000               700,000               63,000
12  Czechoslovakia              1,250            125,000,000             1,875,000              225,000
13 Denmark                       680              68,000,000             1,020,000              122,400
14  Dominican Republic            20               2,000,000                40,000                3,600
15  Ecuador                       32               3,200,000                64,000              576,000
16  Egypt                        533              53,300,000             1,066,000             3,200,000
17  El Salvador                   10               1,000,000                20,000              180,000
18  Ethiopia                      30               3,000,000                60,000              540,000
19 Finland                       380              38,000,000               760,000             6,840,000
20  France                      5,250            525,000,000             10,500,000             979,719
21  Greece                       250              25,000,000               375,000             4,500,000
22  Guatemala                     20               2,000,000                40,000              360,000
23  Honduras                      10               1,000,000                20,000                1,800
24  Iceland                       10               1,000,000                20,000              180,000
25  India                       4,000            400,000,000             8,000,000              720,383
26  Iran                         336              33,600,000               672,000               60,480
27  Iraq                          60               6,000,000               120,000               10,800
28  Italy                       1,800            180,000,000             3,600,000            32,400,000
29  Lebanon                       45               4,500,000                90,000              810,000
30  Luxembourg                   100              10,000,000               200,000               18,014
31  Mexico                       650              65,000,000             1,300,000            11,700,000
32 Netherlands                  2,750            275,000,000             5,500,000              496,098
33  Nicaragua                      8                800,000                 16,000              144,000
34 Norway                        500              50,000,000             1,000,000               90,000
35  Panama                         2                 200,000                 4,000               36,000
36  Paraguay                      14               1,400,000                28,000              252,000
37  Peru                         175              17,500,000               350,000               31,500
38  Philippine Republic          150              15,000,000               300,000             1,200,000
39  Poland                      1,250            125,000,000             1,875,000              225,000
40  Syria                         65               6,500,000               130,000               11,700
41  Thailand                     125              12,500,000               250,000             2,250,000
42  Turkey                       430              43,000,000               860,000               77,400
43  Union of South Africa       1,000            100,000,000             2,000,000              180,000
44  United Kingdom             13,000           1,300,000,000           26,000,000             4,390,750
45  United States              31,750          3,175,000,000           594,215,000
46  Uruguay                      105              10,500,000               210,000             1,890,000
47  Venezuela                    105              10,500,000               210,000             1,365,000
48  Yugoslavia                   400              40,000,000               600,000             7,200,000
83,485         $8,348,500,000          $692,770,000         $120,662,797
[ 46 ]



APPENDIX E
and Voting Power of Members-June 30, 1949
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Amounts Paid In
(Note A)
Non-Interest-Bearing,                Amounts Pay-              Subject to Call
Non-Negotiable                    ment of Which             to Meet Obliga-                    Number
Demand Notes                       is Postponed              tions of Bank                        of
(Notes B and J)                      (Note C)                   (Note I)                         Votes
$ 35,639,869                    $       -                   $ 160,000,000                       2,250   1
8,910,000                           -                       40,000,000                        750   2
38,155,578                           -                       180,000,000                      2,500   3
1,247,400                           -                        5,600,000                        320   4
_                             -                       84,000,000                      1,300   5
56,915,000                           -                       260,000,000                      3,500   6
-  --                   28,000,000                       600   7
106,920,000                     3;000,000                    480,000,000                      6,250   8
-                             -                       28,000,000                        600   9
-                              -                       1,600,000                        270  10
6,237,000                           -                        28,000,000                       600  11
22,275,000                       625,000                     100,000,000                      1,500  12
12,117,600                       340,000                     54,400,000                        930  13
356,400                            -                        1,600,000                       270  14
-  -                     2,560,000                       282  15
6,394,000                           -                       42,640,000                        783  16
_                              _                         800,000                        260  17
_  -                     2,400,000                       280  18
-                             -                       30,400,000                        630  19
93,520,281                           -                       420,000,000                      5,500  20
-                         125,000                     20,000,000                        500  21
_                             -                        1,600,000                        270  22
178,200                            -                         800,000                        260  23
-                             -                          :1800,000                      260  24
71,279,617                           -                      320,000,000                      4,250  25
5,987,520                           -                        26,880,000                       586  26
1,069,200                           -                        4,800,000                        310  27
_- __144,000,000                                       2,050  28
_                             -                        3,600,000                        295  29
1,781,986                           -                        8,000,000                        350  30
-                             -                       52,000,000                        900  31
49,003,902                           -                       220,000,000                      3,000  32
_                             -                          640,000                        258  33
8,910,000                           -                       40,000,000                        750  34
_                             -                          160,000                        252  35
_                             -                        1,120,000                        264  36
3,118,500                           -                        14,000,000                       425  37
1,500,000                           -                        12,000,000                       400  38
22,275,000                       625,000                     100,000,000                      1,500  39
1,158,300                           -                        5,200,000                        315  40
_                             -                       10,000,000                        375  41
7,662,600                           -                       34,400,000                        680  42
17,820,000                           -                       80,000,000                       1,250  43
229,609,250                           -                     1,040,000,000                     13,250  44
40,785,000                            -                    2,540,000,000                    32,000  45
_                             -                        8,400,000                        355  46
525,000                            -                        8,400,000                       355  47
-                        200,000                      32,000,000                        650  48
$851,352,203                    $4,915,000                  $6,678,800,000                    95,485
[47]



APPENDIX F
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1949
NOTE A                                    shall return to such member within a
Amounts in currencies other than United  reasonable time an amount of that mem-
States dollars have been translated into  ber's currency equal to the increase in
United States dollars at the rates used by  the value of the amount of such cur-
member countries in making capital pay-   rency described in (a) above.
ments. In the cases of thirty-nine members   (c) The provisions of the preceding
these rates are the established par values  paragraphs may be waived by the Bank
under the International Monetary Fund     when a uniform proportionate change in
Agreement. In the cases of nine members    the par values of the currencies of all its
(Austria, China, Finland, France, Greece,  members is made by the International
Italy, Poland, Thailand and Uruguay), the  Monetary Fund.
par values of their currencies have not been   NOTE B
so established.
so establishd.    .Demand notes delivered to the Bank in
No representation is made that any of  substitution for currency of member, in ac-
such currencies is convertible into any   cordance with Section 12 of Article V.
other of such currencies at any rate or
rates.                                  NOTE C
Article II, Section 9, of the Bank Ar   nPayments postponed until June 25, 1951,
Articles    I, Areenticontains the follow-   naccordance with the provisions of Article
ticles of Agreement                         Sectina8ini .theseamounsoar
ing provisions with regard to maintenance   II, Section 8 (a) (i) These
of value of certain currency holdings of the   payable in gold or United States dollars.
Bank:                                   NOTE D
(a) Whenever (i) the par value of a   The Bank has sold under its guarantee
member's currency is reduced, or (ii)   $12,000,000 of 21/2 %  serial notes and
the foreign exchange value of a mem-   $16,000,000 of 3% sinking fund bonds re-
ber's currency has, in the opinion of the   ceived by the Bank in connection with its
Bank, depreciated to a significant extent  loan operations. The notes mature semi-
within that member's territories, the   annually in equal installments commenc-
member shall pay to the Bank within  ing January 15, 1949 through July 15,
a reasonable time an additional amount   1958. A total of $600,000 was thus retired
of its own currency sufficient to maintain   on January 15, 1949. The bonds mature
the value, as of the time of initial sub-   March 1, 1969. The sinking fund provi-
scription, of the amount of the currency   sions become operative on or before Sep-
of such member which is held by the   tember 1, 1953, and semi-annually there-
Bank and derived from currency orig-   after, in equal aggregate principal amounts
inally paid in to the Bank by the mem-   of $500,000. Of the total of $27,400,000 of
ber under Article II, Section 7(i), from    obligations outstanding under guarantee,
currency referred to in Article IV, Sec-  $16,000,000 is reflected in the balance sheet
tion 2(b), or from any additional cur-  as a direct liability subject to withdrawal.
rency furnished under the provisions of  NOTE E
the present paragraph, and which has    The principal outstanding on loans dis-
not been repurchased by the member for   bursed, and the accrued charges for inter-
gold or for the currency of any member  est, commitment fee, service charge and
which is acceptable to the Bank.      loan commission are payable in United
(b) Whenever the par value of a   States dollars except the following amounts
member's currency is increased, the Bank   for which the dollar equivalent is shown:
[ 48 ]



Currency Payablc
Swiss        Belgian     Canadian
Francs        Francs      Dollars       Total
Principal Outstanding .................. $3,955,788    $2,005,835    $538,179    $6,499,802
Accrued Interest, Commitment
and Service Charges ................   32,141  22,851       826         55,818
Accrued Loan Commissions ........    9,889       7,031         236        17,156
Totals .......................$ 3,997,818    $2,035,717    $539,241    $6,572,776
NOTE F                                   cipal of loans made by the Bank out of
The amount of commissions received by   such currencies may be exchanged for
the Bank on loans made or guaranteed by   other currencies or reloaned, only with the
it is required under Section 6, Article IV,   approval in each case of the member
to be set aside as a special reserve to be kept   whose currency is involved; provided, how-
available for meeting obligations of the   ever, that, if necessary, after the Bank's
Bank created by borrowing or guaranteeing   subscribed capital is entirely called, such
loans. On all loans granted to date the ef-  currencies may, without restriction by the
fective rate of commission is 1 7 per an-   members whose currencies are offered, be
num.                                     used or exchanged for the currencies re-
quired to meet contractual payments of in-
NOTE G                                   terest, other charges or amortization on the
Assets segregated and held in trust for   Bank's own borrowings or to meet the
the Staff Retirement Plan.               Bank's liabilities with respect to contrac-
NOTE H                                   tual payments on loans guaranteed by it.
The United States has approved the use by
As a sinking fund for the Twenty-Five   the Bank in the making of loans of such
Year Bonds, the Bank has agreed to pur-   18%7o of the subscription of the United
chase and retire or redeem bonds of said   States to the capital stock of the Bank.
issue commencing July 15, 1958, in varying   Similarly, Belgium has approved the use of
amounts calculated to retire 50%o of the   the Belgian Franc equivalent of $2,000,-
total issue by maturity.                 000; Canada has approved the use of the
NOTE I                                   Canadian dollar equivalent of $8,000,000
and the United Kingdom has approved the
Subject to call by the Bank only when   USC of the Sterling equivalent of $2,0l 5,-
required to meet the obligations of the   000. (Article IV, Section 2(a) and ( ',.
Bank created by borrowing or guarantee-
ing loans.                               NOTE L
NOTE J                                     In terms of United States dollars of the
The currencies of the several members   weight and fineness in effect on July 1,
and the notes substituted for any part of   1944.
such currencies are held on deposit with
hesignated depositories in the territories of   GENERAI
the respective members.                    The Board of Governors adopte d .- 0f
NOTE K                                   tober 29, 1948, by vote without mectintr, a
These currencies are derived from the   resolution authorizing the admission of
1^.- of the subscriptions to the capital   Liberia to membership in the Bank, with a
C.0ck oi the Bank which is payable in the   Sid;s r1ption of $500,000. Liberia has until
currencies of the respective members. Such   Sc:pitenmber 30, 1949, to comply with the
18 % may be loaned by the Bank, and funds  terms and conditions of said resolution and
received by the Bank on account of prin-  to accept membership in the Bank.
[ 49



APPENDIX G
Opinion of Independent Auditor
PRICE. WATERHOUSE & CO.
AMERICAN SECURITY BUILDING
WASHINGTON 5. D. C.
July 28, 1949
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT,
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of
June 30, 1949. Our examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included
such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing pro-
cedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes there-
to, present fairly the financial position of the Bank at June 30, 1949,
expressed in United States currency, and the results of its opera-
tions for the twelve months then ended, in conformity with gen-
erally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent
with that of the preceding year.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1949                    APPENDIX A
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for
the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1948 and
June 30, 1949                              APPENDIX B
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1949               APPENDIX C
Statement of Members' Currencies Held by the
Bank-June 30, 1949                         APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and
Voting Power of Members-June 30, 1949      APPENDIX E
Notes to Financial Statements                  APPENDIX F
[ 50 ]



APPENDIX H
Administrative Budget
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1950
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1950, as prepared by the President and
approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section
19 of the By-Laws. For purposes of comparison there is also out-
lined below the administrative expenses incurred during the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1949.
1948-1949    1949-1950
Expenses      Budget
Personal Services ..........................  $2,377,602    $2,298,369
Fees and Compensation .159,694                    181,000
Representation .20,739.................... 20,739  21,500
Travel .243,810.................. . 243,810       257,300
Supplies and Materials .25,531                     30,000
Rents and Utility Service .327,860                324,000
Communication Services .78,73        78,733        87,000
Furniture and Equipment .31,302                    18,000
Motor Vehicles .6     486...................... 6,486  2,500
Books and Library Services .63,821                 52,000
Printing and Binding .32,638                       33,000
Contribution to Staff Benefits .270,577           270,000
Insurance .1 1,3 12................... . 11,312     8,000
Handling and Storage of Gold          7,046
Other Expenses .538
Contingencies  -..........................-       100,000
Total  $........................ .... $3,657,689  $3,682,669
Office of Executive Directors .325,336            361,000
Annual Meeting, Board of Governors
and Advisory Council .85,582                       81,700
Total Administrative Expenses.... $4,068,607    $4,125,369
In submitting the 1948-1949 Administrative Budget, it was
estimated that expenditures, excluding bond registration and issu-
ance expense, would aggregate $4,676,524. Expenses for this pe-
riod as shown above amounted to $4,068,607. In addition $50,664
was expended during the year in payment of commissions incident
to sales of securities from the Bank's portfolio.
No estimate has been made of bond registration and issuance
expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1950. The amount
of bonds which may be issued by the Bank during such year is not
known. It has been estimated, however, that such expenditures
will amount to $725,000 for each $100 million of bonds which the
Bank may issue. It is also estimated that commissions incident
to the sale of securities in the Bank portfolio will amount to $2,500
for each million dollars of securities which the Bank may sell.
[ 51]



APPENDIX I
Governors and Alternates
As of August 20, 1949
COUNTRY                        GOVERNOR                    ALTERNATE
AUSTRALIA                   J. B. Chifley                   N. J. 0. Makin
AUSTRIA                     Georg Zimmermann                Assen Hartenau
BELGIUM                     Gaston Eyskens                  Maurice Frere
BOLIVIA                     Hector Ormachea Zalles          Jaime Gutierrez Guerra
BRAZIL                      Francisco Alves dos Santos-Filho   Octavio Paranagua
CANADA                      D. C. Abbott                    R. B. Bryce
CHILE                       Arturo Maschke                  Fernando Illanes
CHINA                       Kan Hsu                         T. L. Soong
COLOMBIA                    Emilio Toro                     Diego Mejia
COSTA RICA                  Julio Pena                      Angel Coronas-Guardia
CUBA                        Luis Machado                    Joaquin E. Meyer
CZECHOSLOVAKIA              Leopold Chmela                  Bohumil Sucharda
DENMARK                     Carl Valdemar Bramsnaes         Hakon Jespersen
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC          Jesus Maria Troncoso            A. Alvarez Aybar
ECUADOR                     Pedro L. Nunez                  Simon Canarte Barbero
EGYPT                       Ahmed Zaki Bey Saad             Ahmed Nazmy Abdel Hamid
EL SALVADOR                 Catalino Herrcra                Manuel Melendez-Valle
ETHIOPIA                    Jack Bennett
FINLAND                     Sakari Tuomioja                 Ralf Torngen
FRANCE                      Maurice Petsche                 Pierre Mendes-France
GREECE                      George Mavros                   Grigorios Zarifopoulos
GUATEMALA                   Manuel Noriega Morales          Leonidas Acevedo
HONDURAS                    Rafael Heliodoro Valle          Rene Cruz
ICELAND                     Jon Arnason                     Thor Thors
INDIA                       Sir B. Rama Rau                 N. Sundaresan
IRAN                        A. H. Ebtehaj                   Mocharraf Naficy
IRAQ                        Ahmed Izzet Mohammed            Amin Mumayiz
ITALY                       Donato Menichella               Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
LEBANON                     Charles Malik                   Georges Hakim
LUXEMBOURG                  Pierre Dupong                   Pierre Werner
MEXICO                      Ramon Beteta                    Antonio Carrillo Flores
NETHERLANDS                 P. Lieftinck                    A. M. de Jong
NICARAGUA                   Guillermo Sevilla Sacasa        Enrique Delgado
NORWAY                      Gunnar Jahn                     Ole Colbjornsen
PANANIA                     Octavio Vallarino               Aquilino Vallarino
PARAGUAY                    Juan Plate                      Ruben Benitez
PERU                        German Fernandez Concha         Carlos Donayre
PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC         Miguel Cuaderno                 Emilio Abello
POLAND                      Konstanty Dabrowski             Janusz Zoltowski
SYRIA                       Faiz El-Khouri                  Husni A. Sawwaf
THAILAND                    Prince Viwat                    Kajit Kasemsri
TURKEY                      Nurullah Esat Sumer             Nahit Alpar
UNION OF SOUITH AFRICA      N. C. Havenga                   M. H. de Kock
UNITED KINGDOM              Sir Stafford Cripps             Sir Henry Wilson Smith
UNITED STATES               John W. Snyder                  William L. Clayton
URUGUAY                     Carlos Quijano                  Nilo Berchesi
VENEZUELA                   Manuel Reyna                    Carlos M. Lollet C.
YUGOSLAVIA                  Lavoslav Dolinsek               Dragoslav Avramovic
[ 52 ]



-juaoiDd g((- um4i ssaq I
00,00T                                 v Rvi's                                 00,001                                 SOV 0                                                  ...................................................    l" O.L
St"                                    0,0                                    89'                                    099                                     .....          .................. ..................................                      VlAtIsoBnA
El'                                    9,0  I                                  ZE'                                    99C                                                    ..................................I....................    np nzauA
El'                                   S,01                                     LS'                                    qgf                                                ...... .................I.................... ..............    Azn.Srurl
M     E                               O,gtl,E                                  W     EE                               OW       N                                      ......................................................   &Jiejs                               pzillurl
....................I........... ........... ......... caoPSUIX Pn
49'si                                 o,ooc,l                                  so'El                                  ogzlgt                                                                                                                                           ! Ufl
OZ' I                                  0,001                                    TE'l                                  OGZ,i                                    ....... ...................................... ta!jjV                          qlnoS             jo     uo!u l
19'                                   O'Cil                                   IL'                                    099                                     .........I................................. ..........................                             AaqtnL
1,                                    9,Z  1                                  6C'                                    SLE                                     .........          ......................................................    PULHU14.1,
90'                                    9,9                                     FE'                                    sic                                     ... ............................................. .........................    U!.14S
O,qzT                                   49,1                                   00V    I                                .....I................... ... I....... I I.....I.......I.....I..............   PUEJOJ
............. ..........I...... ....... ...... D!IqndaW au!ddi[!ilf
91'                                    0,91                                    Zi"                                    ooil
IZ'                                   9'4  1                                  0     ,                                gzfl                                     I...............................I...........................................   ruaj
ZO'                                    fl, I                                   oz,                                    "    Z                                  ... ......I..........................................................   Asn2leauj
z ,                                     9z,                                    Z96                                    ................ I ......I....... ........ ......... I I............. ...   mueuLq
09'                                    0,09                                    64'                                    094                                     .............   ................. ................... .................    Av,.Alom
10,                                   S'                                       4z,                                                                                                    ...........I......................... - - ......
R    'S                                O,Lz                                   tI'S                                   ow       c                              .................   ........................ ....................
84'                                    0,99                                    116'                                   006                                      ...................................   .....I............................  ODXgA
Zf'                                    0,01                                    Ls'                                    cgs                                     .....................I..............                    ....................    kinoqLuaxnl
90'                                    9'il                                    IC'                                    R                                      ....- ..........I............ ................                             ............    uoueq;)-j
9  I'Z                                 0,081                                   GlIz                                   Oqo`z                                   ................................................... ......................                               (in  I
LO'                                    0,9                                     ZE'                                    OTC                                     ......I........................... ........... .............................   bL'JI
Ot'                                    91 9                                     19'                                   999                                     .....................I......................................................   ULil
64'i,                                  O'OOJI                                  0    3,                                ogz,i,                                              ................................I.........                     ..................   -cipul
10'                                   O'l                                      4Z'                                   09Z                                      .................................................................... -                              pugJ431
10'                                   O'l                                      4Z'                                   09Z                                      ............................................ ...... ..............                          m anpuoH
ZO'                                    O'Z                                     BZ'                                    OLZ                                     ...... I. ................................I.......................                        tlim       3lieng
OC'                                    O'GZ                                    Z9,                                    M                                       ......................... ..............................................   a.)D3.10
6Z'9                                  O,Sz9                                    94'9                                   oos,                                   ......................- ...............................................   Duvij
9V                                    O'st                                     99'                                    099                                     ............. I-   .....................................................    PurM                               il
f'O'                                   O's                                     66'                                    ouz                                     ................I............                 ..........I.......................    'S!dol    ra
10'                                   O'l                                     4Z'                                    09Z                                      ....................I...........................................  JOPLIAILS                                      la
f19,                                   S'Eq                                    Zs'                                    C94                                     ..............I.............................I........I.....I..............  idAft
f'O'                                   Z'S                                     09'                                    zoz                                     ..................I.........I.........................................  iopvnoa
ZO'                                   O'Z                                      BZ'                                    04Z                                     ..................................... ..........    ailqndad                                  uwnunuoCl
is'                                                                                                                                                          .................................I..............                         .............I            ,    -
0189                                    46'                                    OU                                                                                                                                     ][I-oww(I
09,1                                   W M                                     49'I                                   Dog'I                                   ..........................................................    M 3jVA0lSOq34ZD
Zf"                                   OU                                       E9.                                    009                                     ..................I.........................................I.............    Lqno
zo-                                   O'Z                                      VZ'                                    04Z                                     ..........................................I.....................   r3nd                                 visoc)
Zi"                                   O'GE                                     E9,                                    009                                     ...I....I............................ ..............................   iqtuoloo
6  I't                                0,009                                    SS,9                                   OGZ'9                                   ....... ................ ...................................I...... .... :.  'UTIAD
Zk'                                   O'Gc                                     F9,                                    009                                     .......I....I......... ............I....................I.................   0IN D
68'9                                   O'GZE                                   49'9                                   Om      's                              ......... ... ..........................................................    upmu-to
9z. 1                                 0,901                                    99,1                                   oos'l                                   ............... ....I...................................I.................   fizz-IR
80'                                   O*z                                      i1g,                                   OZE                                     ... ......................................................... ...........   2!A!jOq
69'Z                                   OV       Z                              Z9,z                                   oos'z                                   .......I..............................................................   um !sl;pg
09'                                    O'OG                                    6L'                                    094                                     ......................................................................                             v!jlsnV
.................................................................... t T
Oi"Z                                   o-ocz                                   99'Z                                   ogz,z                                                                                                                                      IwlsnV
lv;O.L                      (SAVnCq JO                                     101O.L                                  SPIOA                                                                SHIHJNLIoa aaffwtlw
10                          ruOqVN                                         10                                      to
;ua.wd                      u!) ;Uxou4v                                    ;U8.7.4ad                              Asgumm
suou                                                                          Aamod put
. IOA
6*61 loe jsn2nV lo sV
salijunoD jaquiaN fo suoj;djj.?sqnS puv joinod $u1joA



APPENDIX K
Executive Directors and Alternates and their
Voting Power as of August 20, 1949
VOTES BY        TOTAL
DIRECTORS           ALTERNATES         CASTING VOTES OF             COUNTRY         VOTES
APPOINTED
John S. Hooker        United States                 32,000         32,000
Sir Gordon Munro      Geoffrey H. Tansley    United Kingdom                13,250         13,250
Yueh-Lien Chang       Kuo-Hwa Yu             China                          6,250          6,250
Roger Hoppenot        Emmanuel Lamy          France                         5,500          5,500
N. Sundaresan         D. S. Savkar           India                          4,250          4,250
ELECTED
Czechoslovakia                1,500
Leon Baranski         Arnost Polak           Poland                         1,500
(Poland)              (Czechoslovakia)       Yugoslavia                      650 r        4,280
Finland                         630 J
Brazil                         1,300
Cuba                            600
Peru                            425
Jose Barreda-Moller    Javier Salazar        Philippine Republic             400
(Peru)                (Peru)                 Uruguay                         355          4,186
Bolivia                         320
Dominican Republic              270
Paraguay                        264
Panama                          252
Mexico                          900-
Chile                           600
Colombia                        600
Emilio Toro           Ignacio Copete-        Venezuela                       355
(Colombia)   LizarraldeEcuador                                    282405
(Colombia)              Lizarralde           Costa Rica                      270
(Colombia)          Guatemala                       270
El Salvador                     260
Honduras                        260
Nicaragua                       258
Thomas Basyn                                 Belgium                        2,500
(Belgium)                                    Denmark                         930           3,780
Luxembourg                      350J
Donald Gordon         J. F. Parkinson        Canada                         3,5001
(Canada)              (Canada)               Iceland                         260           3,760
J. W. Beyen           Alf Eriksen            Netherlands                    3,000
(Netherlands)         (Norway)               Norway                          750           3,750
S. G. McFarlane       J. M. Garland          Australia                      2,2501
(Australia)           (Australia)            Union of South Africa          1,250          3,500
Costantino            Francesco Giordani     Italy                          2,050
Bresciani-Turroni    (Italy)               Austria                         750           3,300
(Italy)                                      Greece                          500
Egypt                           7831
Turkey                          680
Mekin H. Onaran       Mohammad               Iran                            586
(Turkey)              Nemazee                Syria                           315           3,249
(Iran)          ~~Iraq                           310
Lebanon                         295
Ethiopia                        280
[ 54 ]



APPV2  K (CONT.)
In addition to the Executive Directors and Alternates shown
on the foregoing list, the following also served as Executive Direc-
tors or Alternates since the effective date of the Second Regular
Election:
EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS                 Data of Resignation
Yuen-Ting Shen (China)          November 28, 1948
Eugene R. Black (United States)    July 1, 1949
ALTERNATES
B. K. Madan (India)             October 31, 1948
Ole Colbjornsen (Norway)        February 28, 1949
Roland Wilson (Australia)       May 31,1949
Taghi Nasr (Iran)               July 9, 1949
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f, 



APPENDIX L
Principal Officers of the Bank
As of August 20, 1949
Eugene R. Black .............                                     President
Robert L. Garner .............                             Vice President
D. Crena de Iongh .............                                  Treasurer
Richard H. Demuth .............           Assistant to the Vice President
Drew  Dudley .............                 Director of Public Relations
William  A. B. Iliff .............                         Loan Director
*Chester A. McLain ..............                        General Counsel
Morton M. Mendels .............                                  Secretary
Chauncey G. Parker .............             Director of Administration
Leonard B. Rist ............. Economic Director
Norman M. Tucker ..............                   Director of Marketing
* On August 19, 1949, Mr. McLain submitted his resignation as General Counsel,
effective August 31, 1949. Davidson Sommers has been appointed to succeed him as
General Counsel and Ansel F. Luxford has been appointed Associate General Counsel.
[ 56



