10919
INTERNATIONAL
BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
SECOND ANNUTAL REPORT
1946 - 1947



K. S. Venkatraman



SECOND ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
(INCLUDING LENDING AND BORROWING OPERATIONS
TO AUGUST 10)
1947
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
WASHINGTON, D. C.






INTERNATIONAL BANNK FOR
RECONSTRUCTrIoN AND DEVELOPMENT
September 11, 1947
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have the honor to submit
to the Board of Governors the Second Annual Report of the Bank, as
approved by the Executive Directors. This report includes financial
statements as of June 30, 1947, based on an audit of the accounts of
the Bank made pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws. It also incor-
porates, pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws, an administrative
budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1948, prepared by the
President and approved by the Executive Directors.
While the financial statements cover the fiscal year ended June
30, 1947, the remainder of the report reflects the activities of the Bank
for the period from the first annual meeting of the Board of Governors
to August 10, 1947.
Sincerely yours,
JOHN J. McCLOY
President
THE RIGHT HONORABLE HUGH DALTON,
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
INTRODUCTION  .                        ............................................................    5
ROLE OF THE BANK .                              ........................................................    7
Unanticipated  Post-War Needs  .......................:                                                                                   7
Underlying  Concepts  ................                             .........................................                              8
The  Problems  .              ..............................................................                                              8
General ...................................................................   8
Europe ...................................................................   9
Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East .................................                                                    12
Restoration  of Investor Confidence  ..............................................                                                     14
Funds Available for Loans  .....................................................                                                        15
LOAN PRINCIPLES, PROCEDURE AND  OPERATIONS ..........................   15
Provisional Principles  .                    ........................................................                                    15
Loan  Procedure   .                 ............................................................                                        17
Loan Operations .                   ............................................................  18
BORROWING   OPERATIONS   ...................................................                                                                19
MANAGEMENT  AND   ORGANIZATION   .........................................                                                                  20
MISCELLANEOUS .                         ............................................................  22
Relationship  with  Other International Organizations  ................................    22
Increases in  Membership  and  Subscribed  Capital ..................................                                                   23
Subscriptions and  Voting  Power of Member Countries  ..............................    23
Election  of Additional Executive  Director  ........................................                                                   28
Financial Statements and  Reports  ...............................................                                                      23
Administrative  Budget  .............                             ...........................................                           23
Additional Reports to  Board  of Governors  ........................................                                                    23
Appendices  .             ................................................................                                              25
A     Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1947  .........................................                                                   25
B  Statement of Income and Expenses for the Twelve Months Ended June 30, 1947  26
C   Statement of Members' Currencies Held by the Bank as of June 30, 1947 .... .....   27
D Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power of Members as of
June 30, 1947 ....................................................... 28-29
E     Notes to  Financial Statements  ............................................                                                   30
F    Auditors' Report, August 6, 1947  ...........................................                                                   32
G  Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1948 .............                                                      33
H Governors and Alternates as of August 10, 1947 .34
I  Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of August 10, 1947 .35
J   Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power as of August 10, 1947. .  36
K  Standing Committees of the Executive Directors .37
L   Decisions of Executive Directors Interpreting Articles of Agreement and Resolutions
of Board of Governors .38



DURING THE YEAR that has elapsed since the First Annual Report was presented, the
International Bank has commenced its operations both as a lender and as a borrower;
it has developed and clarified many of its basic policies and procedures; and it has
strengthened its organizational structure. This Second Annual Report contains a record
of what has been done in these three fields.
It is axiomatic that reconstruction and development, the twin purposes of the
Bank, must move forward together. Creation of conditions of economic health through-
out the world requires an increase in the present world levels of industrial and agri-
cultural output and of international trade; this, in turn, requires both restoration
of productivity in war-devastated countries and increase of productivity in under-
developed nations.
To date the most pressing calls upon the Bank have been for purposes of recon-
structing the war-damaged nations of Europe; in that field there is for the moment not
only great urgency but also great opportunity for rapid improvement in the level of
productivity and, with it, improvement in the level of trade among all the members of
the Bank. But while European recovery has of necessity been stressed, plans for recon-
struction and development elsewhere have also been given consideration, and at a later
stage the emphasis will tend to be on the development phase of the Bank's activities.
It is not cause for despondency that, only two years after the conclusion of the
war, economic stability has not yet been achieved and much still remains to be done in
raising or restoring the standard of living. Reconstruction and development both take
time. They require the efforts of millions of individuals to repair and build up normal
life and activities. They require sound and detailed economic planning. They require
the development of sound budgetary policies to ensure financial and monetary stability.
They require the creation of fair and efficient government controls during the transition
period. These things cannot be quickly achieved after political, economic and human
dislocations of the magnitude experienced during the recent war.
Despite all obstacles, considerable progress toward increasing the level of pro-
duction throughout the world has been made. Given continuance of the will to succeed
by the peoples themselves, given willingness by their leaders to submerge individual
differences, that progress can be continued and its pace increased. It is the design and
purpose of the International Bank to contribute to this end.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Developrnent                  (5]






ROLE OF THE BANK
Unanticipated Post- War Needs                 enough to meet the needs. Several countries, it
When the Bank's charter was drafted at Bret-  is true, have proceeded rapidly with their re-
ton Woods in the summer of 1944, high hopes   covery programs, often at the cost of seriously
were held that the Bank would prove to be the  idepleting their monetary reserves. Others still
principal instrument for restoring the war-torn   require a large measure of assistance to enable
nations of the world to economic life, The criti-  them  to import the necessary food acd fuel,
cal short-range relief needs were to be met  fibres and fertilizers, to eradicate hunger and
through donations by UNRRA; the external   malnutrition and to achieve stability. These
financing needed for the more permanent re-   basic demands must be met; they necessarily
covery programs was to be supplied by loans   aggravate the difficulties in the way of importing
from the Bank. Recovery was conceived of pri-  the equipment and materials needed for purposes
marily in terms of the rebuilding of factories,   of long-range reconstruction
mines, railroads and other specific productive  The problem is not confined to the areas which
facilities.                                   were directly devastated. The dislocating conse-
We now know that the problem is deeper and   quences of the war have likewise extended to
more difficult than was envisaged at Bretton   many other countries, whose resources have been
Woods. The deadening effects of the utter and   strained  and whose plant and equipment have
prolonged disruptions of trade have been more   been impaired as a result of the heavy demands
serious than was anticipated in 1944, delays in   placed on their economies by the war.
satisfying the most elemental needs for food and  Because the requirements are greater than
fuel have been greater, and the dislocations of   anticipated, because the scope of activity and
the industrial mechanism, of governmental or-  loaniable resources of the Bank are limited, it is
ganizations and patterns, and of human re-   manifest that the Bank can provide only a part
sources, have been of more profound significance.   of the answer to the problems which confront the
Unforeseen political conflicts have accentuated   world today. There must be continued assistance
the economic difficulties. As a result, the re-   from other sources, such as that contemplated for
quirements of recovery today are not limited to   Europe by the so-called Marshall Plan, in fields
the rebuilding of individual productive facilities.   which are either beyond the competence or
They include rehabilitation and reconstruction   beyond the resources of the Bank. For both po-
of entire national economies.                 litical and economic reasons, such assistance
The resources of UNRRA did not prove suffl-   must be of limited duration and on a diminish-
cient fully to accomplish the purposes sought.  ing scale. For the same reasons, the assistance
Several countries made substantial additional   must be large enough to enable the recipient
amounts available in the form of credits and   nations to achieve stability-that is, to live with-
grants. Total post-war assistance extended by   out assistance-within a reasonably short period
Canada has been more than $2,050 million.   of time.
Swedish aid has been the equivalent of about    As of the time this report is written, the shape
$800 million and total credits and grants from    and content of the Marshall Plan are still in the
the United States have aggregated approxi-   process of formulation. The extent, the timing,
mately $15,000 million. In spite of its own heavy   even the form which United States assistance
war damage, the United Kingdom has made   may take, are not yet known. Developments in
credits and grants equivalent to approximately   this connection cannot help but greatly affect the
$3,800 million available to other war damaged   role of the Bank in the process of European re-
countries. Other devastated areas have also ex-   construction.
tended credit to those in even worse plight,    Statistical and economic material concerning
despite the immediate sacrifices involved.    the extent of the dollar needs of the world is set
All of this assistance, however, has not proved   forth in the Second Annual Report of the Inter-
lnternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development



national Monetary Fund; it will not be repeated   velopment of industry and agriculture. The stra-
here. But it does seem worth stressing that the   tegic use of comparatively modest sums can in
need for American dollars shown by the Fund's  this way have beneficial effects out of all propor-
report-the so-called "dollar problem"-is funda-   tion to the size of the investment.
mentally a matter of production. The great need  In the second place, the Bank believes that it
for American dollars today simply reflects the   should encourage necessary action by its member
facts (1) that the rest of the world is not yet pro-   governments to assure that the Bank's loans will
ducing enough to enable it to obtain the neces-   actually prove productive. The promotion of
sary goods and services through domestic pro-   sound financial programs, the removal of unnec-
duction and normal international trade channels,   essary trade barriers, and the regional integration
(2) that consequently these goods and services   of production plans, where appropriate, are some
are being purchased in large part in the United   of the fields in which the Bank, as it acquires
States because, with its immense productive    experience and builds up the confidence of the
mechanism intact, the United States is one of   responsible officials of its members, may be able
the few countries, and certainly by far the most  to exert a helpful influence.
important one, able to supply such goods and ser-  Implicit in what has already been said is the
vices, and (3) that procurement in the United   third fundamental concept which has been de-
States requires dollars. The present "dollar prob-   veloped, that the Bank must play an active rather
lem" will be solved when, and only when, pro-   than a passive role. The Executive Directors and
duction in the other nations of the world is in-   the management are convinced that it is not
creased to such an extent that the necessary   enough simply to examine and pass judgment
products can be obtained through the normal   upon loan applications as they are presented.
flow of international trade, with exports of goods   Rather the Bank must take advantage of its inter-
and services available to pay for essential   national cooperative character to initiate and de-
imports.                                       velop plans to the end that the Bank's resources
are used not only prudently from the standpoint
Underlying Concepts                            of its investors but wisely from the standpoint of
Although the Bank cannot meet relief needs,  the world.
although it cannot fulfill all pressing rehabilita-
tion requirements, it can make a substantial con-   The Problems
tribution to both reconstruction and develop-                      GENERAL
ment. The special problems which presently exist  The Bank's task is to help raise the level of the
in these fields are analyzed in the succeeding   world's production as greatly and as rapidly as
section of this report. In this section, there are   it can. It cannot accomplish this task simply by
set forth certain fundamental concepts concern-   examining the need of individual countries for
ing the Bank's functions which underlie its activi-   external assistance for their reconstruction or de-
ties in both areas.                             velopment. Rather, the Bank must emphasize
The first of these fundamental concepts is that   the financing of those projects or programs, be
the Bank cannot, and was never intended to,   they for reconstruction or development, which
provide the external financing required for all   promise the greatest increase in productive out-
meritorious projects of reconstruction and devel-   put in the shortest possible time.
opment. Rather, the Bank's function is to provide  It is not always possible, nor does it serve
a catalyst by which production may be generally   any useful purpose, to draw a sharp line of dis-
stimulated and private investment encouraged.   tinction between reconstruction and develop-
The Bank believes that its funds must be used   ment. Certainly the order of priority of claims
chiefly to finance programs or projects which will   upon the Bank's resources does not depend upon
eliminate bottlenecks to production, or which   any such distinction. It is normally true that
will generate increases in production of related   money spent on repairing a damaged source of
goods or in related areas, or which will otherwise   production will effect greater results, and in a
serve effectively to stimulate the revival or de-   shorter time, than the same amount spent in
[8]
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



building an entirely new source of production.   cleared of mines and war wreckage and restored
However, strategic new projects may make a   to the plow. Despite the unprecedented destruc-
similarly quick and essential contribution to pro-   tion of railroad bridges, marshalling yards, cars
ductive output. It is the extent of the contribu-   and locomotives, trackage and other facilities,
tion which matters, and not whether it results   remarkable strides have been made in the restor-
from  a development or reconstruction project.   ation of the railroad network. By the middle of
As the Bank's charter so wisely provides, it is   1947, in fact, reconstruction had proceeded so
"the more useful and urgent projects, large and   rapidly and the available equipment was being
small alike" which must be dealt with first, with   used with such intensity that, although less
"equitable consideration" to be given to both   equipment was available than before the war,
development and reconstruction.                 in many countries of Europe more passengers
and more freight were being carried than in
EUIROPE                       1938.
On the basis of the tests set forth in the pre-  In other fields, too, there has been encouraging
ceding paragraph, the Bank has up to now neces-   improvement. Cotton textile production in Eu-
sarily given particular emphasis to the problems   rope increased from about 500,000 net tons in
of European recovery. In Europe the need for   1945 to about 850,000 net tons in 1946 and is
assistance in repairing the devastation caused by    expected to reach 1,400,000 tons in 1947; this
the war is urgent. There, too, the productive    compares with about 1,600,000 tons average pro-
capacity and skills already exist; to put them to   duction in the immediate pre-war period. Con-
work by furnishing the necessary new machinery   sumption of raw rubber, both natural and syn-
and replacement equipment, and the necessary   thetic, increased from about 140,000 long tons
stocks of fuel and materials, presents a great and   in 1945 to approximately 285,000 long tons in
immediate opportunity to raise the level of world   1946 and will probably be about 310,000 tons in
output. Moreover, restoration of the productive    1947, indicating the rate of increase in the pro-
capacity of Europe will have prompt and impor-   duction of rubber goods. Cement production for
tant consequences on the expansion of the econo-   a selected group of European countries for which
mies of other regions. Europe will then be able   comparable  data  are  available  more  than
not only to supply more of the goods and of the    doubled from 1945 to 1946, from a monthly aver-
skilled technicians required for the expansion    age of 650,000 tons in 1945 to about 1,500,000 in
programs of countries in other areas, but also to   1946. At the beginning of 1947 European ship-
purchase more of the products of such other   yards had under construction about 3,165,000
countries and thus to contribute to their expan-   gross tons of merchant vessels, almost 50% above
sion.                                            the mid-1939 total; 1,540,000 gross tons were
The requirements of Europe are not limited   launched in 1946, as compared with 1,070,000
to reconstruction; there are a number of Euro-   in 1945.
pean countries, some devastated by war and         Progress has, however, by no means been uni-
others not, which are underdeveloped. In so far   form. Although in some countries total industrial
as the requirements of such nations are for de-   production has reached or exceeded pre-war
velopment, many of the same problems are pre-   levels, in others it is still considerably below
sented as are discussed in the succeeding section   that level, and agricultural production is far be-
of this report. To date, however, loan requests   low that of pre-war years. It should be empha-
from European countries have been primarily for   sized, too, that restoration of production to pre-
reconstruction programs and this section is ac-   war levels by no means indicates that the pre-
cordingly limited to a discussion of the problems   war standard of living has been attained. The
involved in such programs.                       extent of war devastation has been so great that
Much progress has already been made toward    a substantial portion of the gross national prod-
the reconstruction of the nations of Europe, due    uct of each of the countries concerned must be
both to their own efforts and to foreign grants   diverted from current consumption to reconstruc-
and credits. Vast areas of arable land have been   tion of the basic stocks of wealth-housing,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                    [ 9 1



transport, plants, tools, machinery and raw ma-   sary drain upon its dollar resources would be
terials,                                         removed.
The major bottlenecks remaining in the re-       Before the war European coal requirements
construction of Europe are food, fuel, and man-   were met primarily by production within Europe
power. It may be of value to examixe each of   itself. Germany and the United Kingdom pro-
these in turn.                                   vided almost three-fourths of the import needs
FOOD. Much of the arable land of Europe   of other European count-ies and Poland an addi-
served as a battleground in the war. Even after   tional 9%. Exports of United States coal to Eu-
such land has been cleared of mines and rubble,   rope were inconsiderable. Ia 1946, however, total
it cannot be restored quickJy to full productivity.   coal imports by all European countries fell to
v~ ~ ~~ ~ucl                productivity,o .    about one-half of their pre-war level, and Ger-
Lack of scientific cultivation during the war re-
quires now the intensive application of fertilizers,   many and the United Kingdom met only about
the world supply of which is comiderably short   36% of the reduced total. Poland contributed a
th  wde     sply of                         .    larger percentage share but less actual tonnage.
Of demand. Agricultural machinery, too, IS in
short supply in most European nations, and    To the limited extent to which they were met,
short supply in most Europearn nations, and   imDport requiremnents were satisfied primarily by
much of the existing machinery has been under-   *im   eqs pre Uirmtse  Statisfied pimi  by
maintained an  isrn 'on                      shipments of United States coal. D)espite the
maintained and is run down.high cost, the huge shipping expenses, and the
It took eight years after WRorld War I for   hig  cot h   uesipn   xess  n h
Itutookpeaniagricultuars afto er inoflld WaR fovery  lack of the qualities and types of coal desired,
European agriculture to recover in full. Recovery    United  States coal exports to Europe have
may proceed more rapidly this time, but even   soared. In 1946 these exports were 16.1 million
with increased production and imnroved har-   long tons. For the first half of 1947, they were
vesting, the requirements for imported foodstuffs   14.8 million and for the entire year will probably
will be on a large, if declining, scale for some                  . .
time to come. Th  mantd  of th  nee  isin    be about 37 millilon. Including the cost of ship-
ticed tocomehe estmagteutha  in 197  neuoe  wiin-   ping the coal in United States vessels (which
dimpote approxestimatel 13., miln  tons of broea    equals or exceeds the cost of the coal itself in
the Tnited States), Europe spent about $250 mil-
grains as compared with pre-war imports aver-
W  -  r          ~~~lion in 1946 and will probably spend about $535
aging 9.4 million tons a year. Because of rising    million in 1947 for American coal.
prices and the necessity for securing imports      Examination of all the loan applications which
from the high-priced dollar area, it is estimated
tha exenituesin 1947 for imotdgrain and    have been received from European members of
that expenditures in 1947 for imported grain     the Bank reveals that the basic need is fuel. It
grain products from the United States and Ar-   i
gentina alone will amount to $1200 million or   is of primary interest to the Bank, therefore that
s  prouct from te     the production of fuel, and particularly coal, be
siX times the cost of such products from these   i'cesd To d-i eid  h   aksn     ehi
areas in 1939.                      ~~~~~increased. To this end, the Bank sent a techni-
uroeas ine3   r   o    e  o                    cal group to survey the Silesian and Ruhr coal
aEproblemsneedfor ofosubsi ce. T t neeis as part   fields, and has been investigating the possibilities
a problem of subsistence. That need is also part   ope  to itt   ocrbt  o     ouino 7
and parcel of the basic problem  of restoring    open to it to contribute to a solution of the
Euroes c     i to  t rn      ou     prestoduc    problem. The Bank desires to do everything
For  cad  acte   to sup   andumaiai vital    within its power to assist in this matter, for with-
ity is as essential as adequate machinery to en-   out sufficient fuel even the existing capital equip-
ity,is as essential as ad full prdctivit yo.    nment of Europe cannot be fully used and the
able workers to achieve their full productivity.  pace of effective reconstruction will at best be
FUEL. The importance of energy resources, of   slow.
coal in particular, in the reconstruction of Europe
is so fundamental that it neither needs emnphasis   MANPOWER. The manpower deficiencies of
nor is capable of overemphasis. If European coal   Europe are not so easy to analyze quantitatively
production could be increased to pre-war levels,   as the needs for food and fuel. They are, how-
a large part of Europe's production problern   ever, equally important. Tremendous dislocations
would be on its way to solution, and an unneces-   of people occurred as a result of the war. Great
[ 10 I                                             International Baek foir R?c-ozstrvctior and Development



arnies were recruited; war casualties, both mili-  funds and materials required are to come from
tary and civilian, were heavy, and included many   within the country itself. Outside assistance is
of the most skilled technicians; a large segrment   vital, but it represents a small percentage of the
of the labor force was shifted from production   total effort.
for the civilian economy to the production of war  However, there are undoubtedly further con-
materiel; millions of workers were moved by   structive and essential steps which the European
force or persuasion away fromn their homelands.   nations, acting both individually and collectively,
Though great strides have been taken toward   can take. Largely these are not dependent upon
the reintegration into the economy of the labor   external aid. No objective analysis of conditions
forces thus dislocated, much remains to be done.   as they exist today can avoid facing them frankly.
There are still large pools of manpower which  One of the most important is the restoration of
are either employed in non-productive pursuits  financial stability within the various countries, to
or are not employed at all, The mnost striking   the extent that such stability can be achieved
example consists of the hundreds of thousands   through a balanced budget of current expendi-
of displaced persons who have been kept in idle-   tuLres, a sound and equitable tax systern, and the
ness in camps in Gernany and Austria, where   curtailrnent so far as possible of unproductive
they drain rather than contribute to the world's   governmental expenditures. With confidence in
productive output. There has also been, as a   his money, the laborer is more willing to work,
result of unsettled political conditions, an un-   the farmer more willing to sell the food he pro-
economic diversion of labor to the continued    duces. The ineentive to hoard food and other
maintenance of large armed forces and to the   products, as well as gold and foreign exchange,
military production necessary to supply them.   is removed. There is once more a stimulus to
Administrative staffs, particularly in government   save, without which the domestic investment re-
service, have tended to remain swollen in many    quired for reconstruction is unavailable. The
countries, at the expense of the labor force en-   drain of labor towards the black market is
gaged in directly productive work. All of these   eliminated; so too is the waste of manpower in-
pools represent potential sources of manpower   volved in the operation of the barter economy
for production. Fruitful results might be ob.   which inevitably arises when the money system
tained, too, bv further exploration of the possi-   deteriorates. These results can be accelerated
bilities of permitting the voluntary immigration   by foreign assistance, but they depend primarily
of German and Italian labor, not capable of   upon a willingness on the part of the peoples of
being employed with full effectiveness within   the countries involved to pay the costs and make
Germany and Italy themselves.                  the necessary sacrifices.
The need for financial reforms in mnany coun-
Etmopr rrstLu  must make the major contribu-   tries of Europe is generally recognized. But
tion to the solution of all of these problems. The   adoption of the measures necessary to achieve
future of every economic unit, whether it be a   such reforms is a difficult matter, particularly in
local region, a nation, or an integrated continent,   nations whose energies have already been se-
must depend primarily upon its willingness and   verely strained. Since, however, the alternative
ability to utilize to the full and for productive   to remedial action is only greater distress, this
purposes its own resources.                    problem  must be squarely and promptly met.
Before pointing out some of the fundamental   The deliberations now under way with respect
measures whieh are generally accepted as essen-   to the Marshall Plan, or discussions conducted
tial to continued European recovery, the Bank   within the framework of the Economic Commis-
wishes again to draw attention to the notable   sion for Europe, may provide the opportunity for
extent of progress already made by many coun-   the European nations to work out together some
tries. By hard work and austerity much has been   mechanisn to facilitate the desired result, per-
accomplished. Furtherrnore, all of the national   haps through establishment of an international
recovery programs with which the Bank is fami-   panel of skilled and impartial technicians to in-
liar provide that by far the largest part of the   vestigate and make recommendations, perhaps
Inuternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                [ 11 ]



through some other device. The Bank would be   the importation of machinery and equipment.
pleased to give any possible assistance.       Just as important as the restoration of capital
Another important step which the European   facilities is the restoration to normal levels of
countries can take without external assistance is   Europe's depleted stocks of industrial raw mate-
the integration of their reconstruction and pro-   rials. A normal inventory of such materials is
duction programs on a regional basis. Even be-   essentially part of capital; the rebuilding of such
fore the war, such integration would have ob-   inventories is an integral part of reconstruction.
viated many difficulties. Certainly now, with the  If the European nations themselves take the
fundamental change in trade patterns which has   necessary steps to lay a firm foundation for re-
taken place, with the progress which has been   construction, if adequate aid is given by the
made in technological knowledge, it cannot be   United States to enable those nations to surmount
regarded as sufficient simply to restore the pro-   the immediate obstacles, the loans of the Bank
ductive mechanism of Europe as it was in 1939.   should prove of invaluable aid in revitalizing
The restoration of production must be so planned   Europe's productive mechanism. If this can be
as to take full advantage of the economies of the   accomplished, the effects will be felt throughout
specialization of labor; Europe is too impover-  the world and the economies of all the Bank's
ished to afford the uneconomic luxury of produc-   members will benefit accordingly.
tive programs which overlap, for reasons of au-
tarchy or otherwise.
In this connection much can be accomplished              TIAM      AIA, EAR     A
by the gradual removal or lowering of the trade
barriers which now hinder the free international  The urgency of the recovery of Europe does
flow of goods. While some restrictions are neces-   not detract from the importance of the prompt
sary during the transitional period, the eventual   reconstruction and development of the other
goal must be to eliminate such restrictions to the   areas of the world needing assistance, Latin
greatest practicable extent. Success in the estab-   America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In-
lishment of an effective International Trade Or-   deed, it should not be very long before the
ganization would be a step forward in this  financing of development projects in those areas
direction.                                     will tend to become the primary concern of the
Finally, the productive facilities of Germany   Bank.
must promptly be utilized for the benefit of the  To achieve an expanding world economy, to
over-all European economy. This report is not   raise standards of living by increasing interna-
the place to discuss the necessary security pre-  -tional trade, requires more effective utilization
cautions to guard against the possible renewal   of the vast resources, both material and human,
of German aggression. It is appropriate, how-   of these generally less highly developed regions.
ever, to point out that security precautions will   The development of the productive potentialities
be self-defeating if the countries intended to be   of these areas presents at once a challenge and
safeguarded are deprived of their economic well-   a great opportunity.
being because, in the absence of agreement on    Such development is necessarily a long pro-
the form and content of such precautions, Ger-   cess, but it is one which needs to be initiated
man production is left to stagnate. The nations   without delay. The Bank now has underway
of Europe and of the world need the potential   various investigations and negotiations which it
exportable output of Germany, particularly of   hopes will result in substantial assistance in this
the Ruhr and its coal mines.                   connection. The Bank's resources, applied in the
The role of the Bank in helping to solve the   proper places and under proper conditions,
problems which have been sketched will become   should serve as a powerful stimulating agent.
clearer once the nature and scope of any aid to  The Bank cannot, of course, do the whole job;
be given under the Marshall Plan become   it cannot by itself do even a substantial portion
known. But it is apparent already that the Bank's   of the job. Development on the scale that is
part will not be limited to assistance in financing   within the range of practicability needs financial
[ 12 ]                                            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



assistance in amounts which only established   terms of some loans provide conditions which
credif and the consequent free flow of private   are presently so onerous that they cannot form
capital can provide.                           the basis of a realistic settlement. On the other
Some of the nations within the areas here   hand, it is important for the countries concerned
under discussion have well developed industrial   to give clear evidence of their desire to do their
or agricultural economies. But the economies of   utmost to reach fair and equitable agreements
most of the nations in these areas are either   with their creditors. It may be worthwhile, there-
young and immature or old but underdeveloped.   fore, to explore the possibility of setting up, with
The expansion of every such country has always   the cooperation both of the debtor nations and
required the assistance of foreign private capital   their foreign bondholders, an impartial body of
and technical skills. This has been true of many   technical experts who, after investigation, would
European countries, of North America, and of   make recommendations for just settlements of
economically developed nations elsewhere as   the debts due. With the implementation of such
well. The reasons are obvious. An underdevel-   settlements, a great deterrent to the renewed
oped economy does not have a sufficiently high   flow of private capital for development purposes
national income to provide savings of the mag-   would be eliminated.
nitude required for investment in large-scale    The Bank would be willing and anxious to
development programs; external financial assist-   contribute, whether by the provision of personnel
ance is therefore essential. The labor force of   from its staff or otherwise, toward the success of
such a country, too, is for the most part un-   any project such as the one suggested.
skilled in advanced industrial and agricultural  Existing defaults are the most obvious obstacle
techniques; to provide the technicians necessary   to the restoration of credit. In some cases, the
for the operation of a more highly developed   basic causes for default were beyond the control
economy requires in many instances the importa-   of the borrowing country. In others, however,
tion of foreign experts to guide and train the   they were the result of unsound financial and
local workers. The same is true of the requisite   economic policies. In such cases, agreement with
managerial and administrative skills.          creditors would inspire more confidence and go
There exist today a number of deterrents to   further toward reestablishing credit if under-
the free flow of private capital, and with it of   taken as part of an integral program of financial
foreign technical, managerial and administrative   reform. A sound budgetary system and a sound
skills, to the underdeveloped nations. If the   monetary system are necessary to the develop-
Bank, by use of its resources, its influence and   ment countries in their efforts to maximize pro-
the technical specialists on its staff, can help to   duction and to halt the strong inflationary forces
remove some of these deterrents, it will have   which have in many cases already become ap-
achieved an important task in the development   parent. Certainly the Bank could grant financial
field.                                         assistance with much greater assurance that its
The first step is the improvement of the credit  loans would prove productive and sound if the
position of many of the countries concerned.   d
There are several things which those underde-   development plans it may be asked to help
Ther are several things which those underde-   finance were, where necessary, accompanied by
veloped nations with a poor credit standing can   a p
do to improve their position. Perhaps the most   a program for financial reforms of this type. And
effective would be for them to clear up their ex-   flearly,  where such remedial measures are called
ternal debt records. It is not suggested that every   f  p   c                          o
underdeveloped country with outstanding for-  into the areas involved unless the reforms are
eign bonds in default should or could resume   undertaken.
payment on its bonds in accordance with their    As in the case of the debt record, so too in
original terms. As in the case of many corporate   the case of the budgetary and monetary situa-
obligations, adjustments are sometimes the only   tion, it may prove practicable to utilize the ser-
practicable solution for difficulties which have   vices of an international panel of experts to make
been encountered. Furthermore, the original  investigations and to recommend remedial ac-
[13 ]
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



tion. In this field, again, the Bank would be glad  The less well developed nations need inter-
to Tender assistance.                           national assistance for full realization of their po-
Another step which would encourage the free   tentialities. They need not only financial assist-
flow of private capital from abroad for develop-   ance but technical assistanee. Because they lack
ment purposes would be assurance that such   the advanced technology and skills which charac-
capital will not be subject to inequitable and   terize the more highly developed nations, the
restrictive legislation. Foreign private invest-   Bank may well be requested to exercise more
ments are properly subject to such regulation and   initiative in considerinrg their problems and to
control of private capital, foreign and domestic   participate more actively in the formulation of
alike, as the country concerned deems necessary   their plans. While the Bank cannot undertake to
to carry out its national policies. It is also right   furnish technical assistance from its own staff on
and proper that the underdeveloped nations   any large scale, it can help its member nations
should protect themselves against economic or   to select and procure the necessary private tech-
political exploitation as a result of the influx of   nicians. The Bank stands ready at any time to
foreign capital, for in the past exploitation and    consult with mernber governments on this matter.
abuses not infrequently accompanied invest-       The Bank hopes that, as a result of the efforts
ments made in underdeveloped countries. But   of its less well developed members themselves,
the need for protection against exploitation does   stimulated and assisted by the efforts of the Bank
not either require or justify the inequitable treat-  to the extent desired by those members, rapid
ment of foreign capital. Risk capital, whether in   progress will be possible. For in the very magni-
the form of direct or equity investment, is even   tude of the development potentialities of these
more essential to developmenit than loan capital;   nations lies the best hope of the world for greater
such investment cannot be attracted without as-   economic well-being in the future.
surance of fair and equitable treatment and of
continued opportunity to earn a reasonable   Restoration of Investor Confidence
return,                                           Confidence in international investment was
In pointing out some of the steps which the   severely shaken by the depression of the 1930's.
Bank believes would be of assistance in encour-   It is the Bank's hope that, by its activities in the
aging the flow of foreign capital to the less well  fields of reconstruction and development, it can
developed areas, there is no suggestion that all   help to restore that confidence. The thoroughness
remedial measures wlich mnay appear necessary    with which applications for loans are investi-
in the case of any given country must be corn-   gated and the responsibilities which the Bank
pleted before that country may qualify for a   accepts, not only for the proper application of
loan from the Bank. To the contrary, financial   the loan proceeds but also for following economic
assistance from the Bank may formn part of an   developments in the borrowing country during
integral plan involving both long-range financial   the entire period during which the loan is out-
reform and long-range development of produc-   standing, are means to that end.
tive facilities. But while the Bank is willing to  It must not be forgotten that if there was bad
consider making a loan concurrently with the   borrowing in the inter-war years, there was also
adoption by the borrowing country of whatever   bad lending. As a result of reckless competition,
program for financial and monetary stability and   encouiragemetnet was sometimes given to borrow.
the reestablishment of credit may appear neces-   ers and lenders alike without sufficient under-
sary in the particular case, the Bank cannot as-   standing of what was involved; loans were often
sist a country which neither has such stability or   made for unproductive purposes, sufficient care
credit nor a willingness to take action to achieve   was not always exercised to see that a loan was
them. Such lending would be neither prudent   used for the purpose for which it was granted;
nor productive. Furthermore, it would cause the   and high interest rates, instead of encouraging
Bank to lose the confidence of the investment   investors to inquire into the likelihood that the
community, and, with it, the very source of the   borrower could meet its obligations, failed to do
major portion of its loanable funds.            anything but encourage them  to invest their
[14 ]
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



money. It is important that there should be in   States. It has also received from the Belgian
the future a greater sense of responsibility both    Government permission to lend Belgian francs,
in borrowing and lending than has frequently   up to the equivalent of $2,000,000, out of the
been the case in the past.                     Belgian paid-in capital. The Bank hopes and ex-
pects that its few other members which are now
Funds Available for Loans                     in a position to do so will in like manner, when
Sound lending by the Bank is important, not   the occasion arises, permit their paid-in capital
only that its loans may prove productive, not   to be used for loans. As economic recovery pro-
only that confidence in private international in-   ceeds in other nations, they too will be expected
vestment may be restored, but also that the Bank   to make available their paid-in capital.
may be able to borrow from the financial com-   At present, however, the demand is primarily
munity the funds necessary for the Bank's own   for United States dollars and the availability for
lending operations. For it cannot be too often   lending purposes of the Bank's capital funds is
emphasized that the Bank must rely on pri-   practically limited to the approximately $725,-
vate investment funds rather than on its paid-   000,000 represented by such dollars. For loan-
in' capital for the main portion of its loanable   able resources in excess of this amount, the Bank
resourceS.                                    must look to the sale of its securities in the pri-
The capital funds of the Bank required to be   vate investment market, for the time being pre-
paid in by member governments amount to only   dominantly the United States market.
20% of the Bank's total subscribed capital; as  The Bank can secure the funds it needs from
of August 10, 1947, this paid-in capital aggre-   private investors only if it can convince them
gated $1,599,985,000, not including $4,915,00   that its loans will be sound business risks. To be
authorized deferments. The remaining 80%9 of   sure, investors in the Bank's securities have the
the subscription of each member is subject to   guarantee afforded by the uncalled 80% of the
call only if needed to mect the obligations of the   capital subscriptions of the Bank's members. By
Bank. It is not available for lending purposes; it  reason of this guarantee, the Bank is enabled to
is there essentially only for the protection of   make loans of a size which the investment market
those who invest in the Bank's securities.    is unwilling to undertake, and in some cases for
Of the $1,599,985,000 paid-in capital, only   projects for which, though constituting prudent
$727,075,000 is represented by United States   business risks, private financing is not yet avail-
dollars; the remainder is represented by the   able. However, despite this guarantee, it will not
local currencies of the various members of the   be possible for the Bank to sell its securities in
Bank other than the United States. The Bank has   the market in the amounts needed to carry out
received permission from the United States Gov-   its objectives unless investors have confidence
ermnent to use for lending purposes the entire   that their funds will be used only for economic-
amount of the capital paid in by the United   ally sound and productive purposes.
LOAN PRINCIPLES, PROCEDURE AND OPERATIONS
Provisional Principles                        tee after a careful study of the merits of the
The basic character of the Bank's lending oper-   proposal, and the borrower must be unable to
ations is prescribed by its Articles of Agreement.  obtain the loan elsewhere under conditions
Loans may not be for relief purposes or for po-   considered by  the Bank to be reasonable.
litical purposes; they must be for either recon-  But the Articles of Agreement tell only a part
struction or development. There are also certain   of the story. Out of the examination of loan ap-
conditions which under the Articles must be   plications, the study of the problems raised by
met: there must be reasonable prospects of re-  those applications and the discussions which
payment, the project or program to be financed   have taken place with the representatives of pros-
must be recommended by a competent commit-   pective borrowers, there have emerged a number
Irternational Bank for Reconstruction aond Development                              [ 15 ]



of principles which have been adopted by the   complete. It is not the Bank's policy to grant
Bank as a provisional guide to the use of its  loans in such cases for the whole period of the
charter powers. Some of these principles have   plan, but to lend in the first instance sufficient to
been alluded to in earlier sections of this report.  cover the needs of a limited period. At the end
For convenience of reference, however, they are   of that period a further application may be
summarized below.                             made, which will be considered in the light of
the progress made with the assistance of the first
ACCEPTANCE OF RISK. Since one of the pri-  loan and of the position as it then appears. This
mary purposes of the Bank is the revival of pri-   policy has the advantage that the Bank does not
vate foreign investment, it is obvious that the   commit itself to long-range forecasts of condi-
Bank must not refrain from making loans simply   tions either in the borrowing country or in the
by reason of the general economic and political   market in which it will have to raise the neces-
uncertainties which at present obstruct the free   sary funds; moreover, it enables the Bank to dis-
flow of private capital; indeed, an essential ob-   charge more effectively its continuing responsi-
jective of the Bank's loans is to help to remove   bility for the proper utilization of loans. This
these general uncertainties and to establish con-   principle is subject to some modification in ex-
ditions in which private capital will be able once   ceptional cases of projects requiring a long pe-
more to play its part. Nevertheless, the Bank   riod of time to complete.
cannot make imprudent loans. It must act with
care and wisdom in building up its portfolio, for   CONTROL OVER USE OF PROCEEDS. When
on that portfolio, and on the confidence which it   a loan has been made, the proceeds are made
will inspire in the investing public, the Bank   available to the borrower only against evidence
must ultimately rely for its capacity to raise   that the goods or services to be paid for with
funds.                                        those proceeds are within the purposes of the
loan as set forth in the loan agreement. Arrange-
STRATEGIC USE OF FUNDS. This principle   ments are also made, by observation within the
has been explained, and its importance stressed,   borrowing country, to assure that the goods so
in earlier portions of the report. To reiterate in   purchased are in fact put to their intended use.
general terms, the Bank believes that, in the pres-
ent state of the world, its funds should be so used   INFORMATION AND CONSULTATION. The
as to result in the greatest possible increase in   Bank needs to know not only that its funds are
productivity in the shortest possible time. The   being used for the purposes for which they were
Bank is primarily a cooperative rather than a   intended, but also the extent to which achieve-
profit-making institution. It exists for the benefit   ment of those purposes contributes as antici-
of its members. Its chief concern is that its loans   pated to the reconstruction or development plan
shall be used for purposes which are constructive   of the borrower. The Bank is also directly in-
and practical and which will be beneficial both   terested in the general economy of the borrower,
to the borrower and to the world.             since this affects the security of the loan. The
Bank, therefore, requires that the borrower keep
SELF-HELP. The Bank's resources must not  it fully informed, through the regular submission
be used simply to relieve the borrowing nation   of statistical and other information and through
of tasks which that country could justifiably be   consultation, with respect to all significant eco-
required to perform itself. The major effort in   nomic and financial developments. This calls for
the reconstruction or development of any nation   a much closer relation between the Bank and its
must be made by the peoples of that nation   borrowers than has been usual between creditor
themselves.                                   and debtor in the international field. Such a rela-
tion is possible because the Bank is fundamen-
LIMITED COMMITMENTS. A single loan ap-   tally a cooperative international institution which
plication may relate to a reconstruction or de-  lends only to its member countries or upon their
velopment plan which will take several years to   guarantee; since the borrower or guarantor is a
[ 16 ]                                          International Bank? for Reconstruction and Development



member of the institution, it has an interest in  the economic and financial situation of the pros-
the Bank's success and, indeed, participates in   pective borrower. In other cases, the loan ap-
the framing of its lending policy.            plication consisted of little more than a request
for financial assistance, with no implementing
RATE OF INTEREST AND COMMISSION.   program or supporting documentation.
The interest rate charged by the Bank must be   As a result of its experience, the Bank prefers
such as to enable the Bank to meet the cost of  to hold informal exploratory discussions with
borrowing and still leave a sufficient margin to   prospective borrowers before any formal loan
cover operating expenses and to build up appro-   application is filed. Where such discussions have
priate reserves. In the case of the French and   been held, they have enabled the applicant to
Dutch loans, this rate was determined to be   frame its plans and program, and to shape its
31A4% per annum. Current policy is to charge in-   application, in conformity with the policies and
terest only from the date of disbursement and   requirements of the Bank. Such preliminary dis-
on the amount disbursed, and to charge in addi-  cussions, too, serve to avoid applications of a
tion a commitment fee at the rate of 11/2% per   type which the Bank cannot finance.
annum from the date on which the Bank under-    The investigation which the Bank makes of
takes a firm commitment to make the loan up   each loan application covers not only the pro-
to the time of disbursement.                  gram or project for which the funds are sought,
The Articles of Agreement require that the   but as well all important aspects of the borrow-
Bank charge a commission at least during the   er's economic position. The studies made include
first ten years of its operation of not less than   surveys of the borrowing country's agriculture,
1% and not more than 11/2% per annum on all  industry and mineral resources; of its manpower,
guarantees and on all loans made out of bor-   production and transport situation; of the state
rowed funds. This so-called "statutory commis-   of its external trade and balance of payments;
sion" is to be set aside in a special reserve avail-   and of the condition of its internal finances, par-
able to meet the obligations of the Bank in the   ticularly its budget and currency position. The
event of default on its loans. Current policy is   debt record of the prospective borrower is also
to charge a uniform commission of 1% on the   studied and, if it has defaulted on its obligations,
outstanding amounts of loans, regardless of the   investigation is made of the causes of the default,
source of the funds.                          of the efforts made to reach a settlement with
creditors, and of the borrower's attitude towards
REDEMPTION PROVISIONS. The Banik de-   a possible resumption of debt service. In the nor-
sires to encourage borrowers, wherever possible,   mal case, representatives of the Bank investigate
to redeem loans prior to maturity. Provision is   conditions in the borrowing country on the spot.
accordingly made in loan agreements for re-   Where necessary, the plans and estimated costs
demption at any time prior to maturity, subject   of engineering projects are examined with the
to the payment of an appropriate premium, and   assistance of such technical experts as may be
for waiver of this premium by the Bank in cases   required for a proper appraisal.
where it can use the amount so repaid in its cur-  Though the Bank is precluded from making
rent operations.                              or denying loans to achieve political objectives,
there is an obvious and necessary interrelation
Loan Procedure                                and inter-action between political events and
During the early stages of the Bank's develop-   conditions and economic events and conditions
ment, consideration of a loan to any particular   in any country. The soundness of any loan de-
member country was normally initiated by the   pends fundamentally on the financial and eco-
filing with the Bank of a formal request for   nomic prospects of the borrower. In so far as
funds. In some cases a fully documented loan   those prospects may be affected by conditions
application was lodged, setting forth in detail  of political instability or uncertainty in the bor-
the purposes for which the loan was requested   rowing country, those political conditions must
and comprehensive information with respect to   be taken into consideration. In considering the
InternationalBankforReconstructionandDevelopment                                     17 ]



merits of any loan application, therefore, the   are beyond the control of France. But to the
Bank must give due weight to political condi-   extent that France has been able to speed her
tions in the borrowing country to the extent they   own recovery considerable success has been
might affect the financial and economic pros-   achieved. Her external debt record has been
pects of that country.                         excellent. The Bank believes that its loaiA will
hasten the process of reconstruction, that it will
Loan Operations                                result in raising the level of France's produc-
FRENCH LOAN. On May 9, 1947 an agree-   tion, and that the risks involved are of the type
ment was signed granting a loan of $250 million   which the Bank was designed to accept.
to the Credit National, a semi-public French
corporation created In 1919 to assist in fiinancing   DU7TC  LOAN. On August 7) 1947, a loan of
reconstruction and development of the French   $195,000,000 was granted to the Kingdom of the
recons o  ad dNetherlands. The loan proceeds are to be de-
econoiny. The loan is guaranteed by the French n
Goenet Th  aplcto  ha  bee  mad    voted exdlusively to the reconstruction of pro-
Goemet Th  aplcto  ha  bee .1         nad1    ductive facilities in the Netherlands hotneland.
originally for an amount of $500 million, but t  dcie ofacilitroceeds are to be ar plied to the
Bank considered it necessary to limit its com-   Neerlands East Indies or for  ilitary purposes.
mitment to the needs of the immediate future,   Ntelands Eas    orig     orymilitay purs
stating, that it would be willing to consider an  Application was originally made for an amount
n   a              fo  F        lt  in t      of $535,000,000 to cover a reconstruction pro-
yearadithat theldeciion on  anch apprica-   gram  from  1947 through 1949, but the Bank
tion would be made in the  light of conditions   limited its commitment to needs arising from the
then pealing, wi pthicua  referencetoth    1947 portion of the program. The Bank will be
tp rogresadeing,  c parrinuta teferenceontr-    repared to consider requests that may be made
progress made in carrying out the reconstruc-   P
tion program.                                  for further credits for 1948 and 1949 in the light
The importance of France in the economic Po-   of the progress made as a result of the present
loan and of such needs as may then exist.
sition of Europe made it particularly fitting that  The abnormallyc heavyd importsy necessaxys t
Frac shul be th fis conr inwose                  The abnormallv heavy imports necessary to
Fonstranctisou  the   firksthountrply in whosc prc    make good war damage and losses, taken in con-
construction the Bank should play an active part.  junction with the loss of Germany as the prin-
France is vital to Western Europe because of   cipal source of imports and as an important
her size and her productive capacity and the
prbe  of her recvrcantbdioedfm    market, and with the decline of supplies and
troblem of v er recovels cannot E e asvorcea hrom    revenue from the Dutch East Indies, have placed
the recovery of Western Europe as a whole.     a heavy strain on Dutch foreign exchange re-
By the end of 1946, France had made remark-   sources. Thirty-five per cent of essential im-
able progress in erasing the effects of the war   ports in 1947 will have to come from the United
and of enemy occupation. The volume of pro-   States; in 1938 the United States supplied only
duction had been restored to approximately   11% of Dutch imports while Germany provided
90%0 of the 1938 level and the volume of exports   more than 20%.
to 75%. But this expansion in production and     In granting the loan, the Bank has taken into
in exports had involved heavy imports necessi-   account the importance of the recovery of the
tating a depletion of gold and foreign assets by   Netherlands to the economic well-being of Eu-
over $1,600 million and the inciurring of debt   rope and of the world as a whole. It has also
abroad to the extent of $2,600 million.        given due weight to the qualities of determina-
The Bank is fully awvare of the uncertainties   tion and energy which the Dutch people have
and difficulties facing France. Leaders of the   displayed in the past, and which have been well
French Government themselves have stated that   exemplified in the remarkable progress already
they realize that unless France's budgetary dif-   made in restoring output and in combating in-
ficulties are overcome, the ensuing fiscal instabil-  flation. The excellent debt record of the Nether-
ity will endanger the entire reconstruction pro-   lands and its long tradition as an imnportant
gram. Some of the factors impeding recovery   creditor nation make it a good credit risk.
[ 18 1                                           rInernational Bank for Recocmstraction and Development



The progress already made gives prowise that   in the Dutch East Indies.
the 1947 goals can be reached. As regards the
future, the Netherlands, which has always been   OTHER LOAN APPLICATIONS. At the time
highly dependent on international trade, is  this report is written, the French and Dutch
bound to remain sensitive to international po-   loans are the only ones which have been made
litical and economic factors, among which the   by the Bank. Qther applications which have
speed with which free convertibility of Euro-   been received are in various stages of consider-
pean currencies can be restored is of prime im-   ation and processing, from the most prelirninary
portance. This sensitivity calls for enterprise and   steps in obtaining information to an advanced
adaptability on the part of the Dutch people.   stage of negotiation. Should any additional loans
There clearly exists a stern necessity, not only   be made before the time of the second annual
for further increase of industrial output, but also   meeting of the 3oard of Governors, descriptive
for a reorientation of trading relationships in the   material concernintg them will be made avail-
light of the changed situation in Gerrmany and   able to the Governors.
Apart from France and the Netherlands, applications have been received from
the following countries for the purposes indicated.
Millions
of Dollars
CHILE ..........  40                    Hydro-electric, forestry, harbor, urban and suburban
transport, and railway projects.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA ..... . 350              Reconstruction of war damage and losses. Restocking
of raw materials. Rehabilitation projects.
DENMARK . ...... .  50                  Reconstruction and modernization of agriculture and
industry.
IRAN   . . . . . . . . . . 250          Modernization and develQpment of industry, agriculture
and transport.
LUXEMOUB5..          .        . .   20  Reconstruction and modern,ization purposes.
MEXIcO   . . . . . . . . . 209    Irrigation, hydro-electric, pipeline, highway, railroad and
harbor projects.
POLAND      . .  . . .  . . . 600       Equipment and materials for reconstruction of coal min-
ing, iron and steel, textiles, electricity and transport.
BORROWING OPERATIONS
EARLY in the spring it became apparent that an   visit the Bank and talk at first hand with its
informational campaign should be inaugurated   principal officers and its Executive Directors.
to acquaint the American public with the organ-   Moreover an intensive effort was made to obtain
ization and purposes of the Bank and the basic  the enactment in several states of the United
facts regarding its powers and operations. To   States of legislation permitting insurance com-
that end the officers of the Bank accepted many   panies, commercial banks and savings banks to
invitations to speak before interested groups   invest in securities issued by the Bank. Favor-
throughout the United States. The Bank also   able laws were adopted, or favorable adminis-
issued pamphlets describing its organization and   trative rulings made, in many states.
functions. Representatives of comnmercial banks,  On July 15, 1947 the Bank made the first pub-
savings banks, insurance companies, securities   lic offering of its bonds. This cQnsisted of $100,-
dealers and investment services were invited to   000,000 Ten Year 21/4% Bonds due July 15, 1957
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                  19



and $150,000,000 Twenty-Five Year 3%  Bonds   of this portfolio which determines the Bank's
due July 15, 1972. Both issues of bonds were   ability to borrow, and therefore to lend, in the
priced at par. The offering was made through    sizeable amounts contemplated by the drafts-
more than 1,700 securities dealers throughout   men at Bretton Woods.
the United States, more than twice the largest     At present, the United States is the only mar-
number of dealers who had ever before partici-   ket available in which the Bank's securities can
pated in a single securitv distribution.         be sold in large amounts. Furthermore, as has
The offering was substantially over-subscribed    been pointed out, the present demand for loans
and the bonds immediately sold at a premium    is almost exclusively a demand for dollars, to
over the public offering price, facts wvhich are    make purchases in the dollar area. But these
hopeful indications for the future. But it must   should not be continuing conditions; as produc-
be remembered that a major factor contributing    tion and available supplies increase in other
to the success of the offering was the impor-   areas of the world, other currencies will be avail-
tance attached by American investors to the    able for the purchase of the goods required for
guarantee afforded by the 80%  uncalled por-   reconstruction  and development and  nations
tion of the United States subscription to the    other than the United States will be in a posi-
capital of the Bank. As the operations of the   tion to permit the export of capital. It may be
Bank become much more substantial, the Bank's   reasonably anticipated, therefore, that in the
portfolio of loans will be of increasing signifi-   future, as conditions improve, non-American
cance in the investor's judgment as to the worth   capital may be tapped by the Bank's borrowing
of the bonds. Fundamentally, it is the character   operations.
MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
THE YER  covered by this report has been   the understanding that he would remain only
mnarked by important changes in the manage-   until the Bank had been organized and that he
ment and organizaticin of the Bank.              felt that the basic organization had been com-
On December 4, 1946, Mr. Eugene Meyer   pleted and the time had come for the selection
submitted his resignation as President, effective   of a permanent head. Mr. Harold D. Smith, Vice
December 18. In doing so, Mr. Meyer explained    President of the Bank, died suddenly on Jan-
that he had accepted the position initially on    uary 23, 1947.
President
John J. McCfoy
Robert| Richard H. Demuth|
ese.rch                                                           Dire c    tior fDecfor of
Loan Director   reIrrosn                    Secretory'     eer!Cue?     PbjRltons       Anistofia          okfn
Charles C. Pineo |LonB X Rist  D. Crena de longh|  Morton M. Mendels  Chester A. McLoin   Drew Dudley    Chauncey G. Parker   E. Fleetwood Dunstan
[ 20 ]                                             International Bank for Reconstruction and Develotment



On February 23, 1947, the Executive Directors   ment of the Bank's funds and securities and for
elected Mr. John J. McCloy as President of the   developing and maintaining a program of fiscal
Bank. On the same day, they approved the ap-   operations, an accounting system, and a pro-
pointment of Mr. Robert L. Garner as Vice   gram of budgeting and budgetary control. It is
President. Mr. McCloy and Mr. Garner both   also responsible for controlling the disbursement
took office on March 17.                     of the proceeds of loans and for checking the
Since that time, the organizational structure   end use of the goods purchased with such pro-
of the Bank has been further developed and   ceeds.
strengthened. A chart showing this structure, to-
gether with the names of the principal officers of   SECRETARY'S DEPARTMENT. The Secre-
the Bank, appears on the opposite page.      tary's Department is responsible for providing
The President is the chief executive officer of   secretariat services to the Board of Governors,
the Bank. Under him, the Vice President acts  the Executive Directors and the management,
as general manager with responsibility for assur-  for the custody and authentication of official
ing the effective operation of the other offices   documents, for the processing of applications
and departments. It is the Vice President, too,  for membership, and for transmitting general
who directs the formulation of policy recom-   communications and information to member
mendations for the President.                countries and their representatives.
The functions of the other principal units of   LEGAL DEPARTMENT. The Legal Depaxt-
the Bank may be summarized as follows:LEA DPRT N.ThLeaDprt
ment, under the General Counsel, advises with
regard to questions concerning the application
LOAN DEPARTMENT. The Loan Department   of any laws and regulations affecting the oper-
is responsible for discussions with potential bor-  ations of the Bank, prepares or reviews legal
rowers and for handling all loan applications,   documents for use in such operations and is
including analysis of the application, investiga-   generally responsible for all legal work in con-
tion of conditions within the applicant country,   nection with the Bank's activities.
and negotiation of the terms of the loan agree-
ment. It is also responsible for maintaining con-   PUBLIC  RELATIONS DEPARTMENT. The
tinuous contact with all important developments   Public Relations Department is responsible for
in the borrowing country and for consultations   keeping the public, including  investors in
with representatives of the borrower which may   the Bank's securities, informed with respect to
be necessary during the life of the loan. The   the purposes, organization and activities of the
Loan Department also develops recommenda-   Bank, and to this end for developing and main-
tions for policies and procedures relating to  taining appropriate information and publicity
loan operations.                             programs.
RESEARCH  DEPARTMENT. The Research   DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION. The
Department is responsible for obtaining infor-   Department of Administration is responsible for
mation and preparing studies and analyses for  the internal administration of the Bank, includ-
the use of the management and the Executive   ing personnel, office management, organization
Directors in their determination of economic and   and methods planning, and internal auditing.
financial policy, for preparing specific studies of
an economic and financial character as re-   MARKETING  DEPARTMENT. The Market-
quested by other departments of the Bank, and   ing Department has its headquarters at the
for maintaining liaison on economic matters with   Bank's office in New York City. It is responsible
other appropriate organizations.             for the sale of securities issued by the Bank
and the various operations in connection there-
TREASURER'S DEPARTMENT.  The Treas-   with. It maintains contact with the investment
urer's Department is responsible for manage-   markets, continuously studies market conditions
E 21 ]
Intercational Banzk for Reconstruction and Development



and trends and advises with regard to the timing   ternational organizations, and for developing
of offerings of securities by the Bank and the   policy recommendations with respect to matters
terms and conditions of the securities to be   not falling within the jurisdiction of any of the
offered.                                      other departments.
STAFF OFFICE. The Staff Office, under the
Assistant to the Vice President, is responsible   As OF AUGUST 10, 1947, the operating staff of
for the development of liaison policy and the   the Bank consisted of 341 persons, representing
coordination of liaison activities with other in-   19 different nationalities.
MISCELLANEOUS
Relationship with Other International         rope and for Asia and the Far East. Bank rep-
Organizations                                 resentatives also maintained close contact with
The close working relationship Nvhich has ex-  the United Nations Secretariat, particularly with
isted from the beginning between the Bank and   the Economic Affairs Department, in order to
isted rom th bgnigetenavoid unnecessary duplication in the collection
the International Monetary Fund has been devel-   atsicssor ovelapin in r h  sties
oped increasingly during the past year and has   o
proved. of great value. Frequent meetings are   Through participation in the work of the Co-
held between the President of the BXank anld   ordination Committee and its various subsidiary
the Manwaging Director of the  FuBd, and be-   Consultative Committees, the Bank was enabled
tween the heads of the  comparable departments  to exchange views with the United Nations Sec-
tween the  heads ofathe comparable depasion nts  retariat and with the other specialized interna-
of the two orgranizations; on occasion, join
meetings  of the Executive Directors and of  tional organizations on such matters as employ-
their committees have been held. The result has   ment and personnel policies, public information
been that each institution has been kept fully   activities, the use  of cormmon administrative
informed of the activities and policies of the   services and the provision of expert advice an
other, and it has been possible to avoid both   assistance to member governments.
conflict of decision and unnecessary duplication  The Bank has also sought to collaborate with
of effort. In certain admninistrative fields, such   other specialized  international organizations,
as the maintenance of facilities used by both or-   particularly with the Food and Agriculture Or-
ganizations and the establishment of staff pen-   ganization of the United Nations. Informal ar-
sion and health programs, it has been possible   rangements have been made with the FAO See-
to arrange for joint action by the Bank and the   retariat for the exchange of views and of infor-
Fund.                                         mation; in addition, Bank representatives have
Relations with the United Nations have also   participated in several international conferences
been further developed during the past year.  convened by the FAG. The Bank has also taken
The proposed agreement setting out the relations   an active part in the work of the Preparatory
between the Bank and the Unlited Nations is   Committee responsible for drafting a charter for
the subjeet of a separate report and accordingly  the proposed International Trade Organization.
will not be discussed here. Even in the absence  Invitations were accepted for Bank repree
of such an agreement, it has been possible to   sentatives to attend meetings of the Interna-
maintain close and effective liaison with the vari-  tional Chamber of Commerce and of the Board
ous organs of the United Nations which have   of Governors of the Bank for International
responsibilities in fields related to those of the   Settlements. Contact has also been bad with the
Bank. Bank representatives attended as ob-   Pan-American Union and it is expected that a
servers all meetings of the Economic and Social   Bank representative will attend the Ninth Con-
Council, its Economic and Employment Com-   ference of American Republics which convenes
mission and its Economic Commissions for Eu-   in Bogota, Colombia, on January 15, 1948.
E22J                                        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



Inwreases in MembershiP and                   are a Balance Sheet showing the financial posi-
Subscribed Capital                            tion of the Bank as of June 30, 1947, a State-
Membership in the Bank has increased from    ment of Income and Expenses, an Auditors' Re-
38 to 45 since the First Annual Meeting of the   port, and a number of schedules giving further
Board of Governors. The countries admitted to   details concerning the assets and liabilities, cap-
membership during the past year, listed in the   ital and financial operations of the Bank.
order in which they joined the Bank, are Colom-
bia, Venezuela, Tutrkey, Italy, Syria, LebAnon   Administrative Budget
and Australia. An application for membership    Theme is attached as Appendix G the admin-
has been received from Finland; this is the sub-   istrative budget of the Bank for the fiscal year
ject of a separate report to the Board of Gov-   ending June 30, 1948. This budget has been
ernors.                                       prepared by the President and approved by the
Through the access of new  members and   Executive Directors in accordance with Section
through an increase in the capital subscription   19 of the By-Laws of the Bank.
of France by $75 million, the Bank's total sub-  The budget as presented represents the best
scribed capital increased from $7,670 million as   estimate by the management and Executive
of September 1, 1946 to $8,224.5 million, as of   Directors of the minimum cost of effective ad-
August 10, 1947.                              ministration for the current fiscal year. It must
be pointed out, however, that it is not possible
Subscriptions and Voting Power or             to foresee all contingencies which may arise.
Member Countries                              If, therefore, unanticipated conditions develop
In accordance with Resolution XII adopted   which necessitate changes in programs, appro-
by the Board of Governors at the First Annual   priate adjustments in the estimates will be re-
Meeting, the subscription of France to the cap-   quired
ital stock has been increased from 4,500 shares
to 5,250 shares.                              Additional Reports to Board of Governors
By Resolution XIII adopted at the First An-   In addition to this Annual Report, the follow-
nual Meeting, the Board of Governors also au-   ing reports are being submitted for the consider-
thorized an increase in the subscription of Para-   ation of the Board of Governors at the Second
guay to the capital stock of the Bank from 8   Annual Meeting:
shares to 14.
(1) Report and recommendations on the ap-
Election of Additional Executive Director     plication of the Republic of Finland for mem-
Resolution No. 10 adopted at the Inaugural   bership in the Bank;
Meeting of the Board of Governors provided for
the election of an additional Executive Director  (2) Report and recommendations regarding
under certain conditions of increased member-  increases in the subscriptions of Iran and Egypt
ship. On August 6, 1947 the Executive Directors,  to the captal stock of the Bank;
having determined that these conditions had
been fulfilled, ordered the election of an addi-    (3) Report and recommendations on selection
tional Executive Director, and determined that   of the Advisory Counci of t  ;
the member countries eligible to vote were Den-
mark, Colombia, Venezuela, Turkey and Italy.      Report andh recommenations;
The election is expected to be completed by the   agreement with United Nations;
time of the Second Annual Meeting.              (5) Report regarding site of future annual
Financial Statements and Reports              meetings.
Attached as Appendices A to F, inclusive,    (6) Report on Loan Regulations No. 1.
International Batzk for Reconstruction and Development                                r 23 1



Ajpendices                                         (3) Executive Directors and Alternates and
In addition to the appendices to which refer-   Their Voting Power as of August 10, 1947
ence has already been made, there are included   (Appendix J).
in this report for the information of the Board
of Governors the following appendices:            (4) Standing Committees of -Dhe Executive
(1) Governors and Alternates as of August 10,   Directors (Appendix K).
1947 (Appendix H).                                (5) Decisions of Executive Directors Interpret-
(2) Voting Power and Subscripttons of Member   ing Articles of Agreement and Resolutions of
Countries as of August 10, 1947 (Appendix I).   Board of Governors (Appendix L).
[ 24 ]                                             Internataonal Ban}k for Recorstruction and Developm.:ent



4PPENDIX A
Balance Sheet-June 30,1947
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CUBRRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Other Depositories
Member currency-United States       ................                    61,829,306.54
Member currencies-other than United States-Note A                      108,220,798.86   $ 170,050,105.40
Investment Securities
United States Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness
($155,700,000 face amount, at cost less amortiza-
tion of premium) .........   ..................                   $ 155,710,195,61
Accrued interest    ..............................                        556,622.11     156,266,817.72
Receivable from Members
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes
-Note B
Payable in member currency-United States .....  $ 415,785,000.00
Payable in member currencies-other than United
States-Note A .........    ..................   764,123,446.11   $1,179,908,446.11
Calls on subscriptions to capital stock
Due prior to June 30, 1947-Note C ...........  $     525,400.00
Due on or before June 25, 1951-Note D ........      4,915,000.00      5,440,400.00    1,185,348,846.11
Loan Outstanding
Loan commitment-Note E ............ .   ......  $ 250,000,000.00
Less-Unused portion of commitment ............      158,000,000.00
Principal outstanding  ..........................                   $  92,000,000.00
Accrued interest and commissions   ................                       318,020.51      92,318,020.51
Miscellaneous Receivables and Other Assets                                                     147,364.51
Total Assets                                        $1,604,131,154.25
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                                                  $     261,507.57
Special Reserve-Note F                                                                          33,452.05
Capital
Capital Stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value
each
Subscribed 80,245 shares ....... ............  $8,024,500,000.00
Less: Uncalled portion of subscriptions-Note G    6,419,600,000.00   $1,604,900,000.00
Deduct-Excess of expenses over income:
At June 30, 1946                               $     125,158.36
Twelve months ended June 30, 1947                    938,647.01        1,063,805.37
Net Capital                                                                   1,603,836,194.63
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital                                      $1,604,131,154.25
'siernational Bank for Reconstruction and Development



APPENDIX B
Statemnent of Income and Expenses
For the Twelve Months Ended June 30, 1947
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Income
Interest earned on investment securities      ....................                 919,060.88
Income from loans:
Interest ....................       ........................                     108,719.16
Commitment charge .......          ...........................                   175,849.30
Com-nission  ......3.............                                                 83,452.05
$1,237,081.39
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commission appropriated to
Special Reserve (Note F) ........      .....................                      33,452.05    $1,203,629.34
Expenses
Salaries:
Executive Directors and Alternates ......    ................   $ 239,178.11
Officers and others ............         o                      804,110.77    81,043,288.88
Expense allowances-Executive Directors and Alternates .......                         9,693.63
Provision for taxes on salaries and expense allowances ..........                  183,654.43
Travel:
Transportation and moving to and from seat of Bank-Execu-
tive Directors and Alternates .......    ..................   $  12,732.51
Officers and others ............5  51,277.63
Board of Governors and Alternates ............ ; ..........      41,263.42
E:xecutive Directors and Alternates ......   ................    14,674.96
Officers and others ............   ........................      44,259.69       164 008.21
Rental of office quarters           ..98,579.86
Furniture and equipment purchased                                                  205,093.70
Stationery, printing and supplies         ..139,712.46
Cable charges               ..11,290.76
Repairs, maintenance and alterations, rented quarter    rs                          63,943.73
Handling charges and storage of gold                                                44,844.12
Expenses (other than travel) annual meeting Board of Governors                      10,569.92
Miscellaneous expenses .106,592.59
Bond issue expense (Note H) .60,804.06  2,142,276&35
Excess of Expenses Over Income                                                                      $ 93S,647.01
[ 26 2                                                       International Back for Reconstruction and Development



APPENDIX C
Statement of Members' Currencies Held by the Bank
June 30, 1947
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
AMOUNT EXPRESSED                                       TOTAL
UNIT OF    IN MEMBER CURRENCY          RATE OF EXCHANGE         EXPRESSED IN
NAME OF MENMBER        CURRENCY         (RESTRICTED)                (NOTE A)             U. S. DOLLARS
Belgium                 Franc            17,605,453.60           $ =    43.8275          $   401,698.80
Bolivia                 Bolivianv           529,200.00           $ =    42.00                 12,600.00
Brazil                  Cruzeiros       349,650,000.00           $ -    18.50              18,900,000.00
Canada                  Dollar              584,948.50           $        1.00               584,948.50
Chile                   Peso            195,299,070.00           $       31.00              6,299,970.00
China                   Dollar        12,960,000,000.00          $   12,000.00              1,080,000.00
Coloinbia               Peso             11,024,937.00           $        1.74999           6,300,000.00
Costa Rica              Colon             2,021,400.00           $        5.615              360,000,00
Cuba                    Peso                 63,000.00           $ s=     1.00                63,000.00
Czechoslovakia          Koruna           11,218,500.00           $       50.00               224,370.00
Denmarlk                Krone               560,396.07       Krone        $.2083764219       116,773,34
Dominican Republic      Dorn. Dollar          3,600.00           $        1.00                 3,600.00
Ecuador                 Sucre             7,776,000.00           $       13.50               576,000.00
Egypt                   Pound               774,256.00    Eg. Pound =    $4.133             3,200,000.00
El Salvador             Colon               450,000.00           8        2.50               180,000.00
Ethiopia                Dollar             1,341,589.72      Eth. $       $.4025             539,989.86
Franece                 Franc           115,165,268.50           $ =    119.10669            966,908.51
Greece                  Drachma       22,500,000,000.00          8 -  5,000.00              4,500,000.00
Guatemala               Quetzal             357,361.82           $        1.00               357,361.82
Honduras                Lempiza               3,600.00           $        2.00                  1,800,00
Iceland                 Krona             1,167,947.50           $        6.488597           180,000.00
India                   Rupee             2,378,152.17       Rupee        $.30225            718,796.50
Iran                    Rial              1,393,200.00           $       32.25                43,200.00
Iraq                    Dinar               267,990.074       Dinar      $4.03              1,080,000.00
Italy                   Lira           7,290,000,000.00          $ -   225.00              32,400,000.00
Lebaon                  Found             1,786,050.00           $        2.205              810,000.00
Luxembourg              Franc               726,649.59           $ G    43.8275                16,579,77
Mexico                  Peso             56,803,500,00           $        4.855            11,700,000,00
Netherlands             Guilder           1,315,492.00           $        2.65285            495,878.77
Nicaragua               Cordoba             720,000.00           $        5.00               144,000,00
Norway                  Krone               438,901.12           $        4.96278             88,438.56
Panarna                 Balboa               36,000.00           S=       1.00                36,000.00
Paraguay                Guarani             441,599.78           $=       3.09               142,912.55
Peru                    Sol                 204,750.00           $        6.50                31,500.00
Philippines             Peso              2,400,000.00           $ -s    2.00               1,200,000.00
Pol0Ad                  Zloty            21,885,000.00           $      100.00               218,850,00
Syria                   Pound             2,579,850.00           $        2.205             1,170,000,00
Turkey                  Lira                216,720.00         Lira       $3.57143            77,400.00
Union of South Africa   Pound                44,647.P4      S.A. P       $4.03               179,928.10
United Kingdom          Pound               586,455.-/7          R =     $4.03              2,%3,413.78
United States           U. S. Dollar     61,709,873.55      U. S. S =                      61,709,873.55
Uruguay                 Peso              2,871,003.60           $ =      1,519049523       1,890,000.00
Veuezuela               Bolivar           4,572,750.00           $        3.35              1,365,000.00
Yulgosl4via             Diner           360,186,000.0Q            $      50.0266            7,199,880.00
Restricted Currencies (Note J)                                  $169,930,672.41
Unrestricted Currency (all held in United States Dollars)           119,432.99
Total (Note 1)                                                  $170,050,105.40
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                             [ 27 j



APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Amounts Paid In
(Note A)
Number          Subscription                              In-Currency
Member              of Shares           Price             U. S. Dollars         of Member
Subscribed        (Note K)                                 Other Than
U. S. Dollars
1 Belgium                   2,250         $ 225,000,000         $ 4,500,000          $   405,000
2  Bolivia                     70              7,000,000             140,000               12,600
3  Brazil                   1,050            105,000,000           2,100,000           18,900,000
4  Canada                   3,250            325,000,000           6,500,000              585,000
5  Chile                      350             35,000,000             700,000            6,300,000
6  China                    6,000            600,000,000           9,000,000            1,080,000
7  Colombia                   850             35,000,000             700,000            6,300,000
8  Costa Rica                  20              2,000,000              40,000              360,000
9  Cuba                       350             35,000,000             700,000               63,000
10  Czechoslovakia           1,250            125,000,000           1,875,000              225,000
11  Denmark                    680             68,000,000           1,020,000              122,400
12  Dominican Republic          20              2,000,000              40,000                3,600
13  Ecuador                     32              3,200,000              64,000              576,000
14  Egypt                      400             40,000,000             800,000            3,200,000
15 El Salvador                  10              1,000,000              20,000              180,000
16 Ethiopia                     30              3,000,000              60,000              540,000
17  France                   5,250            525,000,000          10,500,000              970,409
18  Greece                     250             25,000,000             375,000            4,500,000
19  Guatemala                   20              2,000,000              40,000              360,000
20  Honduras                    10              1,000,00(              20,000                1,800
21  Iceland                     10              1,000,000              20,000              180,000
22  India                    4,000            400,000,000           8,000,000              720,383
23  Iran                       240             24,000,000             480,000               43.200
24  Iraq                        60              6,000,000             120,000            1,080,000
25  Italy                    1,800            180,000,000           3,600,000           32,400,000
26  Lebanon                     45              4,500,000              90,000              810,000
27  Luxembourg                 100             10,000,000             200,000               18,014
28  Mexico                     650             65,000,000           1,300,000           11,700,000
29  Netherlands              2,750            275,000,000           5,500,000              496,098
30  Nicaragua                    8               800,000               16,000              144,000
31  Nornvay                    500             50,000,000           1,000,000               90,000
32  Panama                       2               200,000                4,000               36,000
33  Paraguay (Note L)            8               800,000               16,000              144,000
34  Peru                       175             17,500,000             350,000               31,500
35  Philippines                150             15,000,000             300,000            1,200,000
36  Poland                   1,250            125,000,000           1,875,000              225,000
37  Syria                       65              6,500,000             130,000            1,170,000
38  Turkey                     430             43,000,000             860,000               77,400
39  Union of South Africa    1,000            100,000,000           2,000,000              180,000
40  United Kingdom          13,000           1,300,000,000         26,000,000            2,375,750
41  United States           31,750          3,175,000,000         219,215,000
42  Uruguay                    105             10,500,000             210,000            1,890,000
43  Venezuela                  105             10,500,000             210,000            1,365,000
44  Yugoslavia                 400             40,000,000             600,000            7,200,000
80,245        $8,024,500,000        $311,290,000          $108,261,154
[ 28                                                 InternationalBank for Reconstruction anddDevelopment



APPENDIX D
Voting Power of Members as of June 30,1947
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Amounts Paid In
(Note A)
Non-Interest-Bearing,     Amounts Pay-        Amounts Unpaid         Subject to Call
Non-Negotiable         ment of Which       ment on or Before     to Meet Obliga-          Number of
Demand Notes           is Postponed           ne 30, 1947 tBons of Bank                     Votes
(Notes B and 1)          (Note D)           (uNote C )               ( Note G)
$  40,095,000           $      -              $    -              $ 180,000,000             2,500   1
1,247,000                                     400                 5,600,000              320   2
-                    -                   -                 84,000,000            1,300   3
57,915,000                                      -                260,000,000            3,500   4
-                    -                   -                 28,000,000             600   5
106,920,000           3,000,000                  -                480,000,000            6,250   6
-                   -                    -                 28,000,000             600   7
-                    -                   -                  1,600,000             270   8
6,237,000                  -                   -                 28,000,000              600   9
22,275,000             625,000                  -                100,000,000            1,500  10
12,117,600             340,000                  -                 54,400,000              930  11
356,400                  -                   -                   1,600,000             270  12
-                   -                    -                  2,560,000             282  13
4,000,000                  -                   -                 32,000,000              650  14
-                    -                   -                   800,000              260  15
-                    -                   -                  2,400,000             280  16
93,529,591                  -                   -                420,000,000            5,500  17
-               125,000                  -                 20,000,000             500  18
-                  -                   -                  1,600,000              270  19
178,200                                      -                    800,000              260  20
-                    -                   -                   800,000              260  21
71,279,617                                      -                320,000,000            4,250  22
4,276,800                                      -                 19,200,000              490  23
-                   -                   -                  4,800,000              310  24
:-   -              -                144,000,000            2,050  25
-                    -                   -                  3,600,000             295  26
1,781,986                  -                   -                  8,000,000             350  27
\ .                 -                   -                 52,000,000              900  28
49,003,902                  -                   -                220,000,000            3,000  29
-                   -                    -                   640,000              258  30
8,910,000                  -                   -                 40,000,000              750  31
-                   -                    -                    160,000             252  32
-                    -                   -                    640,000             258  33
3,118,500                                      -                 14,000,000              425  34
1,500,000                  -                   -                 12,000,000             400  35
22,275,000             625,000                  -                100,000,000            1,500  36
-                   -                    -                  5,200,000             315  37
7,662,600                  -                   -                 34,400,000              680  38
17,820,000                  -                   -                 80,000,000            1,250  39
231,624,250                  -                   -               1,040,000,000          13,250  40
415,785,000                  -                   -               2,540,000,000          32,000  41
-                   -                    -                  8,400,000             355  42
-              525,000                 8,400,000             355  43
-               200,000                  -                 82,000,000             650  44
$1,179,908,446          $4,915,000            $525,400             $6,419,600,000          91,245
fInternational Bank for Reconstruction and Develop,ment                                         [ 291



APPENDIX E
Notes to Financial Statements
NOTE A                                           NOTE B
Amounts in currencies other than United States   Demand notes delivered to the Bank in stibstitu-
dollars have been translated into United States dol-  tion for currency of member, in accordance with
lars at the rates recognized in making capital pay-   Section 12 of Article V.
ments by rnember countries. In the cases of thirty-   NOTE C
four members these rates are the established par   As of June 80, 1947, the Governments of Vene-
values under the International Monetary  Fund' 
valusudertheIntrnato     M y F zuela and Bolivia had not completed payment in
Agreement. In the cases of ten members (Brazil,  their currencies of calls on stock subscriptions which
China, Dominican Republic, Greece, Italy, Lebanon,   were due on or before May 26, 1947. At June 30,
Poland, Syria, Uruguay and Yugoslavia), the par   1947, the equivalent of $525,000 was due from
values of their currencies have not yet been so   Venezuela and the equivalent of $400 was due from
established.                                     Bolivia. Both of these members have subsequently
No representation is made that any of such curren-   paid the amounts due by delivering demand notes as
cies is convertible into any other of such currencies   provided in Section 12 of Article V.
at any rate or rates.
NOTE 0
Article II, Section 9, of the Bank Articles of Agree-  Payments postponed until June 25, 1951, in ac-
ment contains the following provisions with regard   cordance with the provisions of Article II, Section 8
to maintenance of value of certain currency holdings   (a) (i). These amounts are payable in gold or
of the flank:                                    United States dollars.
(a) Whenever (i) the par value of a member's   NOTE E
currency is reduced, or (ii) the foreign exchange  On May 9, 1947, the Bank entered into a loan
value of a member's currency has, in the opinion of   agreement with Credit National pour faciliter la
the Bank, depreciated to a significant extent within
that member's territories, the member shall pay to   rverino des domCaes cue parola iuerre pro-nt
the Bank within a reasonable time an additionAal   viding for a loan to Credit National in the amount
the Bank within a reasoabof $250,000,000, or the equivalent thereof in other
amount of its own currency sufficient to maintain the   currencies, and a guarantee agreement relating
value, as of the time of initial subscription, of the
amoun of the currency of such member which is  thereto with the Republic of France. Such agree-
amount of the currencye whici    ments became effective on June 9, 1947. Unless
held by the Bank and derived from currency       otherwise agreed, the loan commitment expires as to
ally paid in to the Bank by the mnember under Article   anyerwise  porthe at  cember e1 r 1947o
II, Section 7 (i), from currency referred to in Article   any unused portion at December 31, 1947.
IV, Section 2 (b), or from any additional currency   NOTE F
furnished under the provisions of the present para-  The amount of commissions received by the Bank
graph, and which has not been repurchased by the   on loans made or guaranteed by it is required under
member for gold or for the currency of any member   Section 6, Article IV, to be set aside as a special
which is acceptable to the Bank.                 reserve to be kept available for meeting obligations
(b) Whenever the par value of a member's cur-   of the Bank created by borrowing or guaranteeing
(b) Whenever the par value of a member's cur-   las
rency is increased, the Bank shall return to such   loans.
member within a reasonable time an amount of that   NOTE G
memnber's currency equal to the increase in the value  Subject to call by the Bank only when required to
of the amount of such currency described in (a)   meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrow-
above,                                           ing or guaranteeing loans.
(c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs   NOTE H
may be waived by the Bank when a uniform pro-      On July 15, 1947 through a public offering in the
portionate change in the par values of the currencies   United States the Bank sold $100,000,000 aggregate
of all its members is made by the International   principal amount of its Ten Year 21/4% Bonds due
Monetary Fund.                                   July 15, 1957, and $150,000,000 aggregate principal
[ 30 j                                              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



amount of its Twenty-Five Year 3% Bonds due July    whose currency is involved; provided, however, that,
15, 1972. The public offering price of each issue   if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is
was 100% plus accrued interest. Selling concessions   entirely called, such currencies may, without restric-
were allowed to dealers at the rates of 1/4 of 1% for   tion by the members whose currencies are offered, be
the Ten Year Bonds and 1/2 of 1% for the Twenty-   used or exchanged for the currencies required to
Five Year Bonds sold to them.                       meet contractual payments of interest, other charges
NOTE I                                              or amortization on the Bank's own borrowings or to
The currencies of the several members and the    meet the Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual
notes substituted for any part of such currencies are    payments on loans guaranteed by it. The United
held on deposit with designated depositories in the    States has approved the use by the Bank in the
territories of the respective members,              making of loans of such 18% of the subscription of
the United States to the capital stock of the Bank.
NOTE J                                               (Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b).)
These currencies are derived from the 18% of the
subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which    NOTE K
is payable in the currencies of the respective mem-    In terms of United States dollars of the weight
bers. Such 18% may be loaned by the Bank, and    and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
funds received by the Bank on account of principal   NOTF L
of loans made by the Bank out of such currencies       Resolution XIII adopted by the Board of Govern-
may be exchanged for other currencies or reloaned,   ors at its First Annual Meeting authorized an in-
only with the approval in each case of the member   crease in the subscription of Paraguay to $1,400,000.
International Bank -Sor Reconstruzction and Davelo pinent                                         31 1



APPENDIX F
Auditors' Report
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO.
AMERICAN SECURITY BUILDING
WASHNGTON 5, D. C.
August 6, 1947
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSThUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT,
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 1947. Our exam-
ination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
applicable in the circumstances, and included such tests of the accounting
records and other supporting evidence and such other procedures as we
considered necessary.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes thereto, present
fairly the position of the Bank at June 30, 1947, expressed in United States
currency, and the results of its operations for the twelve months then ended,
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a
basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
PRICE, WVATERHOUSE & Co.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1947
Statement of Income and Expenses for the twelve months ended June 30, 1947
Statement of Members' Currencies held by the Bank at June 30, 1947
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock of the Bank and Voting Power
of Members, June 30, 1947
Notes to the Financial Statements
[ 32;                                        Intrnataonal Bank fo- iEcconstruction and Develo ment



APPENDIX G
Admuinistrative Budget
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1948
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year
ending June 30, 1948 as prepared by the President and approved by
the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws:
Personal Services ........................... $2,383,500
Travel ...................................    205,400
Rent, Utility Service, and Building Alterations. .   307,200
Supplies and Equipment .....................   155,400
Books and Printing .........................    97,000
Communication Service .........     ............    48,000
Contribution to Staff Benefits .................   251,000
Miscellaneous (Reporting Service, Regional
Offices and contingencies) .................   400,000
Other Expenses ..................5..........        l,000
Total Administrative Expenses ..... $...  3,862,500
Offices of Executive Directors ....... 333,500
Annual Meeting, Board of Governors 165,000         498,500
Total Operating Expenses ............. $4,361,000
In addition, it is estimated that bond registration and issuance ex-
penditures will aggregate $3,987,000, making the total estimated
expenditures $8,348,000.
[ 33 ]
Iflternatioftal lDank for Reconstrctidlon and IJevelopmeng






APPENDIX C
Administrative Budget
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1948
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year
ending June 30, 1948 as prepared by the President and approved by
the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws:
Personal Services ........................... $2,383,500
Travel ..................................         205,400
Rent, Utility Service, and Building Alterations. .   307,200
Supplies and Equipment .....................   155,400
Books and Printing .........................    97,000
Communication Service .........     ............    48,000
Contribution to Staff Benefits .................   251,000
Miscellaneous (Reporting Service, Regional
Offices and contingencies) .................   400,000
Other Expenses ............................         15,000
Total Administrative Expenses ..... 3... S3862,500
Offices of Executive Directors ....... 333,500
Annual Meeting, Board of Governors 165,000        498,500
Total Operating Expenses ...... ....... $4,361,000
In addition, it is estimated that bond registration and issuance ex-
penditures will aggregate $3,987,000, making the total estimated
expenditures $8,348,000.
[ 33 ]
leternatioftal Bank for Recons&uclion and Dlevelopment






APPENDIX G
Administrative Budget
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1948
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year
ending June 30, 1948 as prepared by the President and approved by
the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws:
Personal Services .............. ............. $2,383,500
Travel ...................................    205,400
Rent, Utility Service, and Building Alterations. .   807,200
Supplies and Equipment .....................   155,400
Books and Printing .........................    97,000
Communication Service .........      ............    48,000
Contribution to Staff Benefits .................   251,000
Miscellaneous (Reporting Service, Regional
Offices and contingencies) .................   400,000
Other Expenses ................ ............        15,000
Total Administrative Expenses ........ $3,862,500
Offices of Executive Directors ....... 333,500
Annual Meeting, Board of Governors 165,000         498,500
Total Operating Expenses ...... ....... $4,361,000
In addition, it is estimated that bond registration and issuance ex-
penditures will aggregate $3,987,000, making the total estimated
expenditures $8,348,000.
[ 33 3
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



APPENDIX H
Governors and Alternates
(As of August 10, 1947)
COUNTRY                              GOVERNOR                           ALTERNATE
AUSTRALIA (becamc mebey rn August S, 1947)
BELGIUM                       Gaston Byskens                       Maurice Frere
BOLIVIA                      'Rene Ballivian-Calderon              Jaime Gutierrez-Guerra
BRAzIL                        Francisco Alves dos Santos-Filho     Edgard de Mello
CANADA                        D. C. Abbott                         Graham F. Towers
CHL                           Arturo Maschke                       Fernando Illanes
CHINA                         0. K. Yui                            T. L. Soong
COLOMBI4                      Emilio Toro                          Diego Mejia
COSTA RICA                    Julio Pena Morua                     Angel Coronas-Guardia
CUBA                          Guillermo Belt                       Miguel A. Riva
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                Alois Kral                           Joseph Hanc
DENMARK                       Carl Valdemar Bramsnaes              Hakon Jespersen
DOMINICAN REPUBUC             Jesus Maria Troncoso                 Jose Ramon Rodriguez
ECUADOR                       Leonardo Stagg                       Sixto E. Duran-Ballen
EGYPT                         Abmed Zaki Bey Saad                  Ahmed Selim
EL SALVADOR                   CatalinQ Herrera                     Manuel Melendez-Valle
ETMOPIA                       George A. Blowers
FRANCE                        Robert Schuman                       Pierre Mendes-France
GREECE                        A. J. Sbarounis                      Grigorios Zarifopoulos
GUATEMALA                     Manuel Noriega Morales               Leonidas Acevedo
HoNDURAS                      Julian R. Caceres                    Jorge Fidel Duron
ICELAND                       Magnus Sigurdsson                    Thor Thors
INDIA                         Sir Chintaman Deshmukh               N. Sunidaresan
IRAN                          A. H. Ebtehaj                        Mocharraf Naficy
IRAQ                          Ali Jawdat                           A. M. Gailani
ITALY                         Donato Menichella                    George Cigliana
LEBANON                       Charles Malik                        George Hakim
LuXEMBOURG                    Pierre Dupong                        Hugues Le Gallais
MEXICO                        Anlonio Espinosa de los              Luciano Wiechers
Monteros
NETHERLA1ns                   P. Lieftinck                         M. W. THoltrop
NICARAGUA                     Guillerrno Sevilla Sacasa            Rafael A. Huezo
NORWAY                        Gunnar Jahn                          Ole Colbjoemsen
PANAMA                        J. J. Vallarino                      Roberto Heurternatte
PARAGUAY                      Harmodio Gonzalez                    Ruben Benitez
PERU                          Carlos Montero Bernales              Jose Barreda Moller
PHILIPPLNE REPUBLIC           Joaquin M. Elizalde                  Narciso Ramos
POLAND                        Konstanty Dabrowski                  Janusz Zoltowski
SYRIA                         Faiz el Khoury                       Husni A. Sawwaf
TURKEY                        Nurullah Esat Sumer                  Nahit Alpar
UNION OF SOUTH AnucA          Jan Hendrik Hofmeyr                  M. H. de Kock
UNrrED KiINGDOM               Hugh Dalton                          Sir Gordon Munro
UNrrED STATES                 John W. Snyder                       William L. Clayton
URUGUAY                                                            Hugo Garcia
VENEZUELA                     Carlos A. D'Ascoli                   Hector Santaella
YUGOSLAVIA                    Stane Krasovec                       Vaso Srzentic
E 34 ]
Intermational Bank ,-cr Reconstrnctior and Development



APPENDIX I
Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries
(As of August 10, 1947)a
Voting Power of
Member Countriet            Required Subscriptions to International Bank
International Pank       Total Subscription     Amount Which May Be tJsgd
InternatlSubscription  (In Millions of Dollars)
Number      Percent       Amount       Percent             ,     Only to
of          of        (In Millions    of         For Bank s  Meet Bank's
Votes       Total       of Dollars)    Total      Own Loans  Obligations
Australia                   2,250        2.41       $ 200.0        2.43       $  40.00     $ 160.00
Belgium                     2,500        2.67          225.0       2.74          45.00       180.00
Bolivia                       320        .34             7.0        .09           1.40         5.60
Brazil                      1,300        1.39          105.0       1.28          21.00        84.00
Canada                      8,500        3.74          325.0       3.95          65.00       260.00
Chile                         600        .64            35.0        .43           7.00        28.00
China                       6,250        6.68          600.0       7.30         120.00       480.00
Colombia                      600        .64            35.0        .43           7.00        28.00
Costa Rica                    270        .29             2.0        .02            .40         1.60
Cuba                          600        .64            35.0        .43           7.00        28.00
Czechoslovakia              1,500        1.60          125.0       1.52          25.00       100.00
Denmark                       930        .99            68.0        .83          13.60        54.40
Dominiican Republic           270        .29             2.0        .02            .40         1.60
Ecuador                       282        .30             3.2        .04            .64         2.56
Egypt                         650        .70            40.0        .49           8.00        32.00
El Salvador                   260        .28             1.0        .01            .20          .80
Ethiopia                      280        .30             3.0        .04            .60         2.40
France                      5,500        5.88          525.0       6.38         105.00       420.00
Greece                        500        .53           25.0         .30           5.00        20.00
Guatemala                     270        .29             2.0        .02            .40         1.60
Honduras                      260        .28             1.0        .01           .20           .80
Iceland                       260        .28             1.0        .01            .20          .80
India                       4,250        4.55          400.0       4.86          80.00       820.00
Iran                          490        .52            24.0        .29           4.80        19.20
Iraq                          310        .33             6.0        .07           1.20         4.80
Italy                       2,050        2.19          180.0       2.19          36.00       144.00
Lebanon                       295        .32             4.5        .05            .90         3.60
Luxembourg                    350        .37            10.0        .12           2.00         8.00
Mexico                        900        .96            65.0        .79          13.00        52.00
Netherlands                 3,000        3.21          275.0       3.34          55.00       220.00
Nicaragua                     258        .28             .8         .01            .16          .64
Norway                        750        .80            50.0        .61          10.00        40.00
Panama                        252        .27             .2          b             .04          .16
Paraguay                      258        .28             .8         .01            .16          .64
Peru                          425        .45            17.5        .21           8.50        14.00
Philippine Republic           400        .43            15.0        .18           3.00        12.00
Poland                      1,500        1.60          125.0       1.52          25.00       100.00
Syria                         315        .34             6.5        .08           1.30         5.20
Turkey                        680        .73            43.0        .52           8.60        34.40
Union of South Africa       1,250        1.34          100.0       1.22          20.00        80.00
United Kingdom             13,250       14.17        1,800.0      15.81         260.00      1,040.00
United States              82,000       34.23        3,175.0      38.60         635.00     2,540.00
Uruguay                       355        .38            10.5        .13           2.10         8.40
Venezuela                     355        .38            10.5        .13           2.10         8.40
Yugoslavia                    650        .70            40.0        .49           8.00        82.00
Total                      93,495      100.00C      $8,224.5     100.00       $1,644.90    $6,570.60
a On August 5, 1947, Australia was admitted to member-    b Less than .005 per cent.
ship. The total of subscriptions and total of votes shown    c The figures shown in the table do not add to L00,00
ifi this Appendix differ, therefore, from those as of  because of rounding.
June 30 shown in Appendix 'D".
International Bark f or Reconstructio and Development                                              3



Executive Directors and Alternates and                      APPENDIX J
Their Voting Power as of August 10, 1947
CASTING VOTES         VOTES BY   TOTAL PERCENT OF
DIRECTORS             ALTERNATES            OF              COUNTRY   VOTES   TOTAL*
APPOINTED
Eugene R. Black       John S. Hooker        United States        32,000    32,000    37.20
Sir Gordon Munro      Maurice H. Parsons   United Kingdom         13,250    13,250    15.40
Yuen-Ting Shen        Y. L. Chang (Temp.)  China                  6,250     6,250     7.27
Pierre Mendes-France  Guy de Carmoy         France                 5,500    5,500     6.39
N. Sundaresan         B. K. Madan           India                 4,250     4,250     4.94
ELECTED
J. W. Beyen           W. Koster             Netherlands            3,0001    4250     4g4
(Netherlands)         (Netherlands)         Union of South Africa   1,250J   4
Belgium               2,500
Franz De Voghel       Thomas Basyn          Norway                  750    3,860      4.49
(Belgium),           (Belgium)              Luxembourg              350      ,
Iceland                 260
Brazil                1,300
Chile                   600
Philippine Republic     400
Victor Moller         Fernando Illanes      Bolivia                 320     3670      4.27
(Chile)               (Chile)              Costa Rica               270
Guatemala               270
Paraguay                258
Panama                  252
Leon Baranski         Stefan Michalski      Czechoslovakia         1,5009
(Poland)              (Temp.) (Poland)    Poland                  1,500     3,650     4.24
Yugoslavia              650
Mexico                  900
Cuba,                   600
Peru                    425
Luis Machado          Joaquin Meyer         Uruguay                 355
(Cuba)                (Cuba)                Ecuador                 282     3,610    4.20
Dominican Republic      270
El Salvador             260
Honduras                260
Nicaragua               258J
Graham F. Towers   J. F. Parkinson          Canada                3,500     3,500     4.07
(Canada)              (Canada)
Egypt                   650
Kyriakos Varvaressos  F. Noury-Esfandiary   Ireece                  490 0   2,20      2.59
(Greece)             (Iran)                 Iraq                    3190    2
Ethiopia                280J
* The percentages of voting power shown in this Appendix differ from the percentages shown in Appendix I because,
as of August 10, 1947, there were several members not represented by an Executive Director.
[ 36                                              I International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment



Since the First Annual Meeting, the following changes have taken place
in the membership of the Executive Directors and Alternates:
Executive Directors
Date of Appoint-
Resigned                      Appointed or Elected                ment or Election
Hubert Ansiaux (Belgium)           Franz de Voghel (Belgium)            November 1, 1946
R. B. Bryce (Canada)               Graham F. Towers (Canada)            March 7, 1947
Emilio G. Collado (US)             Eugene R. Black (US)                 March 14, 1947
Sir James Grigg (UK)               Sir Gordon Munro (UK)                May 19, 1947
Alternates
Resigned                          Appointed                  Date of Appointment
Y. L. Chang (China) (Temp.)          December 11, 1946
D. Crena de Iongh (Netherlands)    W. Koster (Netherlands)             January 8, 1947
J. V. Joshi (India)               B. K. Madan (India)                  February 14, 1947
M. Naficy (Iran)                  M. Nemazee (Iran) (Temp.)            March 20, 1947
Aramis Alvarez (Cuba)             Joaquin Meyer (Cuba)                 April 7, 1947
Maurice I. Hutton (UK)            Maurice H. Parsons (UK)              June 1, 1947
M. Nemazee (Iran)                 F. Noury-Esfandiary (Iran)           July 15, 1947
Alois Kral (Czechoslovakia)       Stefan Michalski (Poland) (Temp.)    August 6, 1947
APPENDIX K
Standing Committees of the Executive Directors
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL POLICY
J. W. BEYEN, Chairman
LEON BARANSKI, Vice Chairman
EUGENE R. BLACK
VICTOR MOLLER
SIR GORDON MUNRO
GRAHAM F. TOWERS
COMMITTEE ON INTERPRETATION                COMMITTEE ON LIAISON
KYRIAKOS VARVARESSOS, Chairman         PIERRE MENDES-FRANCE, Chairman
LUIS MACHADO, Vice Chairman            N. SUNDARESAN, Vice Chairman
FRANZ DE VOGHEL                        VICTOR MOLLER
PIERRE MENDES-FRANCE                   SIR GORDON MUNRO
YUEN-TING SHEN                         KYRIAKOS VARVARESSOS
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                               [37 ]



APPENDIX L
Decisions of Executive Directors
Interpreting Articles of Agreement and Resolutions
of Board of Governors
The following decisions in respect of the interpretation of the Articles of Agreement and of
resolutions of the Board of Governors have been made by the Executive Directors during the
period covered by this report:
I. Decisions regarding calls on the 80% of capital subscriptions
of members subject to call only to meet obligations of Bank
WHEREAS, in connection with the preparations   call which shall be made by the Bank in respect of
of the Bank to borrow funds in accordance with the   the subscription of such other member?
provisions of Section 1 of Article IV of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and to use the funds so   DECISION ON QUESTION NO. 1
borrowed in the making of loans, certain questions  The obligations of the respective members of the
have arisen with regard to the interpretation of the   Bank to make payment of their subscriptions to the
provisions of said Articles; and                  capital stock of the Bank are not dependent on each
WHEREAS the Executive Director for the United    other, and the failure of one or more members of the
States has requested that, before the UVnited States   Bank to make payment of a call on such subscrip-
shall be asked to approve the borrowing of such   tions does not excuse any other member of the Bank
funds in the United States, the Executive Directors,   from its obligation to make payment of such call or
in accordance with Article IX of said Articles, decide   of any other call on its subscription to the capital
such questions; and                               stock of the Bank.
WHEREAS the Executive Directors, having con-   QUESTION NO. 2
sidered such questions, are of opinion that it is ad-  If the Bank calls a part of the 80% of the subscrip-
visable that such questions be decided before the   tionstiscatlsokwhhisubetocllo
Bank shall proceed to borrow funds to be used in   tos to its capital stock which is subject to call to
Beankingall proceedan   borrow funds to be used in   meet obligations of the Bank created under Sections
the making of loans by the Bank;                  1 (a) (ii) and (iii) of Article IV of its Articles of
NOW, THEREFORE, the Executive Directors   Agreement and the aggregate of the payments re-
hereby decide as follows:                         ceived by the Bank pursuant to such call is for any
reason insufficient to meet such obligations then ma-
QUESTION NO. I                                    tured or about to mature, does the Bank have the
If the Bank calls a part of the 80% of the sub-   right to make further successive calls on such 80%
scriptions to its capital stock which is subject to call   (not exceeding in the aggregate the amount remain-
to meet obligations of the Bank created under Sec-  ing unpaid of such 80%) until the aggregate of the
tions 1 (a) (ii) and (iii) of Article IV of its Articles   payments received by it on such calls shall be suffi-
of Agreement and one or more members of the Bank   cient to meet such obligations?
fail to make payment of the amount called in respect
of the subscription of such member or members, does   DECISION ON QUESTION NO. 2
the failure of such member or members to make such  If the Bank shall call a part of the 80% of the sub-
payment excuse any other member of the Bank from    scriptions to its capital stock which is subject to call
making payment of the amount of such call in re-   to meet obligations of the Bank created under Sec-
spect of the subscription of such other member or   tions 1 (a) (ii) and (iii) of Article IV of its Articles
from making payment of the amount of any further   of Agreement and the amount received by the Bank
[ 38 ]                                             International Bank for Reconstruction and Developmnent



on such call shall be insufficient to meet such obliga-   IV of its Articles of Agreement until such obligations
tions matured or about to mature, the Bank has the   have actually matured. If for any reason the Bank
right under its Articles of Agreement to make further   will not have available funds sufficient to meet such
successive calls on such 80%  (not exceeding in the    obligations as they mature, it has the right under its
aggregate the amount then remaining unpaid of such    Articles of Agreement to make calls on such 80%
80%) until the aggregate amount received by it shall  sufficiently in advance of the maturity of such obliga-
be sufficient to meet such obligations then matured   tions in order to meet them as they mature.
or about to mature.
QUESTION NO. 4
QUESTION NO. 3                                      Is the Bank under any obligation to make calls on
If the Bank has maturing obligations created under   the 80%  of the subscriptions to its capital stock
Sections 1 (a) (ii) and (iii) and, because of a de-   which is subject to call to meet obligations of the
fault on loans made, participated in or guaranteed    Bank created under Sections 1 (a) (ii) and (iii)
by the Bank or for any other reason, the Bank does   of Article IV of its Articles of Agreement?
not have funds available to meet such maturing ob-
ligations, does the Bank have the right, in anticipa-   DECISION ON QUESTION NO. 4
tion of the maturity of such obligations, to call all or  The 80% of the subscriptions to the capital stock
part of the 80% of the subscriptions to its capital   which is subject to call to meet obligations of the
stock which is subject to call to meet such obliga-   Bank created under Sections 1 (a) (ii) and (iii) of
tions and which then remains unpaid, or must the    Article IV of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
Bank defer such a call until such obligations actually   is a part of the assets of the Bank of which it is
mature?                                           bound to avail itself when and to the extent neces-
DECISION ON QUESTION NO. 3                        sary in order to meet such obligations. The duty of
The Bank need not defer a call of all or part of the   the Bank in that regard is implicit in any obligation
80% of the subscriptions to its capital stock which    which it creates under such Sections.
is subject to call to meet obligations of the Bank             (Decisions of the Executive Directors
created under Sections 1 (a) (ii) and (iii) of Article         at their meeting on April 2, 1947.)
II. Decision regarding use of currencies received by Bank
on account of principal of loans made out of borrowed funds
WHEREAS, in connection with the determina-   Bank shall proceed to borrow funds to be used in
tion of the terms and conditions of bonds or other   the making of loans by the Bank;
obligations which the Bank may issue, a question    NOW, THEREFORE, the Executive Directors
has been raised as to whether or not, under the pro-  NOW, dERE as followsr
visions of Section 2(c) of Article IV of the Articles   hereby decide as follows
of Agreement of the Bank, it is authorized to use in  The provisions of Section 2(c) of Article IV of
the making of loans currencies received by the Bank   the Articles of Agreement of the Bank do not limit
from borrowers or guarantors in payment on account   the use by the Bank of currencies received by it on
of the principal of direct loans made by the Bank   account of the principal of loans made by it out of
out of funds borrowed by it as provided in Section   funds borrowed by it as provided in Section 1 of said
1 of said Article IV; and                         Article IV. Such provisions are intended to make it
clear that currencies so received can be used by the
WHEREAS the Executive Director for the United    Bank, without restriction by its members, for the
States has requested that, before the United States   purpose of making amortization payments on, or of
shall be asked to approve the borrowing of funds in   anticipating payment of, or repurchasing, all or part
the United States, the Executive Directors, in ac-   of the obligations of the Bank. Such provisions do not
cordance with Article IX of said Articles, decide such    prohibit the Bank from using any currencies so re-
question; and                                     ceived for any purpose for which the funds so bor-
rowed by it could have been used, including the
WHEREAS the Executive Directors, having con-   making of loans.
sidered such question, are of the opinion that it is           (Decision of the Executive Directors
advisable that such question be decided before the             at their meeting on June 18, 1947.)
lhternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                     [ 39 ]



III. Decisions pursuant to Resolution No. VI of the First Annual Meeting
regarding election under Resolution No. 10 of the Inaugural Meeting
A member admitted to membership in the Bank       If such member abstains from voting in the elec-
subsequent to the election of the Executive Directors  tion held under Resolution No. 10, the votes which
held at the Inaugural Meeting, but prior to the elec-   such member might have cast at such election are
tion to be held under Resolution No. 10 cannot cast   votes which count toward the election of the Execu-
its votes for an Executive Director holding office at   tive Director elected at such election and are in-
the time the election pursuant to Resolution No. 10   cluded in the number of votes which such elected
takes place.                                      Executive Director shall be entitled to cast.
(Decisions of the Executive Directors
at their meeting on August 6, 1947.)
1 40 ]     -                                           International Bank for Reconstruction and Developmsew






4j* m



