MGs
International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development
"'4"   1   w      A  N  K    
ELVET  U                I
ELEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT . 1955-1 956



I                                            I
I                                          I



WBG
ELEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT * 1955-1956
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.



I



WBG
International Bank for Recornstrtiction and Development
September 25, 1956
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, I have been authorized by the Execu-
tive Directors to submit to the Board of Governors this Eleventh Annual
Report of the Bank, for the fiscal year July 1, 1955 to June 30, 1956.
The first section of this year's Report surveys the various activities of
the Bank in the fiscal year, and includes a description of the progress made
by Bank borrowers on some of the projects assisted by earlier loans. There
then follow a tabular Statement of Bank loans, a country-by-country sum-
mary of the year's operations, and the customary Appendices, including the
Financial Statements as of June 30, 1956 and the Administrative Budget for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1957.
Sincerely yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



FACTS FROM THE REPORT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   5
THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   7
Loans Made  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   7
Financial Operations    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Progress on Projects .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Advisory Assistance .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24
International Finance Corporation    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
Membership, Subscriptions and Staff .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
STATEMENT OF LOANS   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY SUMMARY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
Africa. . .  .. 39
Asia and the Middle East  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42
Australasia.. .    ..  48
Europe. .  .  .. 48
Western Hemisphere .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  50
Loans Classified by Purpose and Area (Table) . . . . . . . . . . . 58
APPENDICES   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  59



(   ,/                             or set aside for lending an additional $129 million
during the year, or three times as much as in the
previous year. More than half the domestic currency
subscriptions to the Bank's capital have now been
lent or allocated to loans.
FA  C TS  FR 0 M   THE  R EPO  R T                1 A total of $72 million was raised by sales of parts
of Bank loans, the great majority of them without
the Bank's guarantee. Private banks participated in
two-thirds of the loans made during the year, in each
case without the Bank's guarantee.
. The 26 loans made during the fiscal year totaled the  t There was a slight reduction in the Bank's funded
equivalent of $396 million. They were made in 20  debt, which now stands at the equivalent of $850
countries and territories, in six of which the Bank had  million. Two new issues of bonds amounting to the
not lent before. About 70%O of the total was to  equivalent of $22 million were floated in Holland and
develop electric power and improve transportation;  Switzerland; and $23 million of previous issues were
more than two-fifths was for projects in Asia.  retired during the year.
Lending since the Bank began operations now totals
the equivalent of $2,720 million ($2,667 million net  1- Disbursements amounted to $284 million, of which
of cancellations and refundings) in 42 countries.  borrowers spent approximately half in the United
States and 40% in Europe. Loan repayments and
* Net earnings of the Bank reached a record level of  prepayments came to $48 million. At the end of the
$29.2 million, and total reserves rose to $228 million.  year, the net total of loan commitments (including
Borrowers met all payments of principal and interest  both effective loans and those not yet effective)
due during the year. Because of the general tightening  amounted to the equivalent of $2,402 million. Of this,
of money markets, the Bank raised its interest rates  $704 million had not yet been disbursed. Included in
toward the end of the year.                       the commitments were $190 million of loans sold or
agreed to be sold to other investors.
F The Bank continued to provide its members with
advice on development problems: the reports of  @> The Economic Development Institute completed its
general survey missions to Syria and Malaya were  first six-month course of study in June. The second
published, as were two reports on Colombia, one  course will begin in October, with about 20 officials
dealing with the country's agriculture and the other  from less developed countries as participants.
with the development of the Cauca Valley. The
Bank continued its practice of maintaining resident  1> At the end of the year the Bank had 58 member
representatives in a number of countries to advise on  countries and a subscribed capital of $9,050 million.
development programming, and sent more specialized  Afghanistan and Korea joined during the year.
missions to a number of others.
P> Shortly after the end of the fiscal year, the new
10' Of the capital subscribed to the Bank in the domestic  International Finance Corporation came into existence
currencies of its members, the Bank was able to lend  as an affiliate of the Bank.
.5.



THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES
'VV
The year's 26 loans were made in 20 countries and territories, and were equivalent to $396 million.
6~~~~~~~~~'V iVV.V



*      *       *         *       * 
TJNE 25, 1956, WAS THE TENTH  grown less rapidly, was one-third higher than prewar.
anniversary of the day on which the Bank began its    There were signs, it is true, that this rate of growth
operations. In establishing its position in international  was slackening in some sectors. In the first half of
finance and widening the scope of its activities, the  1956 some industrial countries were showing symp-
Bank has been greatly helped by the striking improve-  toms of economic strain, and world industrial pro-
ments which have taken place in the general economic  duction seems to have climbed less rapidly in that
environment. In spite of many economic difficulties,  period than it had in the preceding six months. Some
the past decade has been characterized by unparalleled  primary products, especially staple foods, were also
economic growth. By 1956 world industrial production  encountering price and market problems. Nonetheless,
was running at a rate double the prewar peak;  over the world as a whole, more people enjoyed more
world trade was one-and-a-half times the highest  real wealth in the past year than at any previous time
prewar level; agricultural production, although it had  in history.
L O A N S M A D E
This condition of world affairs has been reflected in    There were a number of notable features in the past
the activities of the Bank. Lending during the 12  year's lending operations. One was the increased
months ending June 30, 1956, amounted to the  activity of the Bank in Asia, where lending totaled
equivalent of $396 million, and brought the total of  $166 million. Another was the size of projects assisted:
'the Bank's loans in its first decade to $2,720 million,  the Kariba power loan of $80 million was the largest
consisting of 150 loans in 42 countries and territories.  yet made for a single project by the Bank and also
The year's 26 loans showed an increasingly wide  the largest loan in Africa; the Tata Iron and Steel
geographic spread. They were made in 20 countries  loan of $75 million was the largest yet made for indus-
and territories, in six of which-Algeria, Burma,  try and also the largest for any purpose in Asia. Yet
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Lebanon-the Bank  another aspect of the year's loans was the extent to
had not previously lent.                        which they supported programs rather than single
.7.



projects. There were examples in all the main fields               LOANS OF THE YEAR
of the Bank's operations-power, transport, agri-           (Expressed in millions of United States Dollars)
culture and industry-and from every part of the
world. Some of these programs have already been             CoNItrvY        Amount        Purpose
under way for several years and will take a long time  Algeria . . . . . . $ 10.0  Power
to complete. In these cases the Bank is providing  Burma .        .5.35 Railways
continuous support for the development plans of                               14.0  Ports
member countries.                                   Colombia .  . . . .   16.5  Roads
Since 1948 when lending began for economic  Ecuador  . . . . .   5.0  Power
development, more Bank loans have been made for  Finland.  . . . . .   15.0  Power
electric power than for any other purpose; loans for  GuateraIa   . . .       18.2  Roads
transport have taken second place. These two pur-  ---------
Haiti .2.6 Roads
poses together account for more than half of the
Bank's lending. The remainder, apart from postwar  Honduras .                 4.2  Roads
reconstruction loans, has been for industry, agri-  India .    ...  .          .   75.0  Industry
culture and other development purposes, in that  Japan  ...  .            .     .    5.3  Industry
order. This pattern was repeated in the past year's  ---                      8.1  Industry
lending. The bulk was for basic services; about 40%   Lebanon .    . . .      27.0  Multipurpose_project
was for power, 30%, for transport and the balance  Nicaragua . . . . .   7.1  Power
.4 Power
for industry, agriculture and multi-purpose projects.                          1.5  Agriculture
While the loans made during the year are described                          3.2  Ports
in greater detail in the country-by-country summary,  Norway.    . . . .  25.0  Power
(page 38) certain salient features are discussed below.  Pakistan  . . . . .   4.2  Industry
14.8 Ports
Electric Power                    Panama   . . . . .   5.9  Roads
Power loans this year totaled $148 million, excluding  Peru .5.0  Roads
the large investment in generating capacity included  Rhodesia & Nyasaland .  80.0  Power
in the multipurpose loan  in  Lebanon, which is  South Africa .  .    .  25.2  Railways
described under a later heading. Altogether, the year's  Thailad.           12.0  Railways
power loans are contributing to a total addition of       --
Uruguay.         .... 5.5  Power
over one million kilowatts to capacity in the borrow-            -5.Poe
ing countries. This emphasis in Bank lending reflects   TOTAL  . . . . $396.05
the very rapid growth of power demand in recent
decades. In the world as a whole, demand has increased    The Bank believes that, in the effort to meet this
since the war at an average of nearly 10% a year and  growth of demand, insufficient attention is sometimes
this expansion, which reflects the raising of living  given to the role of power rate policies-a matter of
standards as well as the continued growth of economic  particular importance in less developed countries
activity, is expected to continue. It is largely for this  with inadequate capital markets. Public regulating
reason that the potentialities of nuclear power are  authorities are apt to be attracted by policies of so-
being so closely studied by many countries; the Bank  called "cheap" power, to such an extent in some cases
is also engaged in its own investigations into the  that rates do not even fully meet direct operating
long-term possibilities of this new source of energy,  costs. Experience in many countries has shown that
especially in countries with limited access to alterna-  such power is not cheap in the end; and that, if
tive sources.                                       development of an economy is not to be retarded by
*8-



deterioration of plant and severe shortages, rates should  third, smaller plant in eastern Finland will be built
cover all costs and also provide some contribution to  with the help of a Bank loan of $15 million. A 235-mile
the financing of future expansion. It has been said  transmission line will link the Lapland plants with the
that the really expensive kilowatt is the kilowatt that  rest of the national network. Two thermal stations
an economy needs but does not have. In all its lending  will also be built in the south to provide a firm source
for power, therefore, the Bank lays great emphasis  of power for the main consuming centers.
on the need for adequate rates.                     In Latin America two loans totaling $7.5 million
The year's loan of $80 million to develop the  were made in Nicaragua. One will assist in constructing
hydroelectric potential of the Zambezi River in the  a 30,000-kilowatt thermal plant in Managua, which
Kariba Gorge will help to bring about a more than  will double Nicaragua's generating capacity. The other
threefold increase within the next sixteen years in the  will finance the distribution of power from this station
power capacity of the Federation of Rhodesia and  in outlying towns that have never before enjoyed a
Nyasaland. Power from  Kariba will supply the  dependable supply. These loans mark the first stage
Northern Rhodesian copper-belt and also meet the  in the transition from  small, scattered units to a
growing needs of industrial and other consumers in  unified and efficient system. At the Bank's suggestion
Southern Rhodesia. Mining at present accounts for  a National Power Commission has been set up to
two-thirds of the total load in the area to be served  help to regulate and administer the expanded supply.
and shortage of power has recently been limiting the    A loan in Uruguay will help to pay for a 50,000-
expansion of mining operations. Another power loan  kilowatt thermal unit in Montevideo. This will be the
in Africa was made in Algeria. It will assist a five-year  second unit recently installed in the city, and will form
program  to add 135,000 kilowatts, an increase of  part of a power and telephone expansion program for
one-quarter, to the country's generating capacity.  which the Bank has already lent $33 million.
Of the remainder of the sum lent for power, three-    A loan in Ecuador will help to expand power
quarters will support projects in Europe, where the  supplies in Quito and the surrounding areas, where
Bank has now invested $130 million for a total  the demand has recently risen to about twice the
addition  of 1.6 million  kilowatts to  generating  available supply. A  14,500-kilowatt hydroelectric
capacity. Demand for power in Europe is very high,  station will be built, together with a small diesel plant
and may treble or quadruple by 1975. This offers an  needed to bring quick relief from the power shortage
opportunity to certain countries to utilize their lakes  and to provide power in the dry season.
and mountain rivers to generate power for internal
use and sometimes also for export.                                   Transport
An example of this was the loan of $25 million for  In recent years improvements in transport services
the Tokke project, which will exploit the power po-  have occupied an increasingly important place in the
tential of the lake system of south-eastern Norway.  Bank's lending. In the year under review a total of
The loan will help to finance the construction of a series  $127 million was lent for this purpose. Bank financing
of dams and tunnels and a new 400,000-kilowatt  of transport has been many-sided; roads, railroads
power station. Norway's present electric power costs  and ports were all included in the year's lending.
-are probably as low as anywhere in the world. This    Roads took the largest share, with six loans totaling
has encouraged investment in industries such as  $52 million. In the past some countries have invested
metals and chemicals which are large consumers of  large sums in new highways which have since been
power, and has led Norway to develop more generating  allowed to become almost unusable and have there-
capacity per head than any other country.         fore not made a lasting contribution to the economy.
In Finland two large hydroelectric plants with a  The Bank believes that it can often contribute most
total capacity of 220,000 kilowatts in Lapland, and a  effectively to economic growth in less developed
.9.



countries by first assisting in the establishment, equip-  a loan of $1.5 million will provide funds for the
ment and training of efficient road maintenance  Instituto de Fomento Nacional, a development agency
services, rather than by financing new construction.  of the government of Nicaragua which will supply
The road loans made during the year were all in  farmers with Bank-financed equipment on a rental
Latin America-Colombia, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon-  or credit basis.
duras, Panama and Peru. The loan in Colombia will    Because agriculture is vital to every economy and
help to complete a highway reconstruction and  provides the livelihood of at least two-thirds of the
maintenance program for which two previous loans  population of the less developed regions, the Bank
had been made by the Bank. The five other loans,  seeks to contribute to growth in this sector in the
while including the rehabilitation and new construc-  various ways open to it. The total of $228 million lent
tion of important highways, will finance the equip-  directly for agriculture and forestry since the Bank
ment and services needed to improve government  started operations does not adequately measure the
highway organizations and to set up new maintenance  extent to which Bank financing has stimulated farm
services. The loans are also paying for the services of  output. The Bank has financed transportation projects
foreign consultants obtained on Bank advice to assist  which have in many instances given an important
in launching new maintenance organizations.      stimulus to the movement of agricultural products.
The Bank made three loans totaling the equivalent  Several of its loans for power have also given con-
of $43 million for railways. One loan will help to  siderable help to agriculture by encouraging the
modernize the equipment and track, and improve the  expansion of processing industries and quickening
operation of the rail network in Thailand. A second  the tempo of development in rural areas.
will help to provide wagons and railcars and build    There are, of course, situations in which agricultural
bridges in Burma. The third, a loan made in sterling,  advance can be directly supported through large basic
will provide finance for an expansion program to meet  investments, particularly in irrigation, flood control
growing traffic needs in South Africa.           and land clearance. Nearly half of the total lent by
Three loans totaling $32 million were made to  the Bank directly for agriculture has been for projects
improve ports in Asia and Latin America. Most of  of this kind. The remainder, amounting to about $120
the East Wharves in Karachi, West Pakistan, had  million and including a number of comparatively
deteriorated to such an extent that they were in  small loans, has been to improve storage and to
danger of collapse; they are now being reconstructed.  finance imports of equipment and livestock needed to
In Burma improvements are required to handle the  make possible more efficient and more intensive
growing traffic now passing through Rangoon. A new  farming methods. But progress in agriculture often
quay is being financed in Corinto, main port of  hinges less upon large investments of capital than upon
Nicaragua, to provide for the very rapid postwar  changes in methods used and crops sown or in the
growth of the country's foreign trade.           balance between livestock and cultivation. Also of
basic importance are the adequacy of farm credit
Agriculture and Multipurpose Projects        agencies and questions of organization and technique
The Bank lent $27 million to finance equipment and  as they affect, for instance, extension services and
the services of foreign consultants and contractors  marketing arrangements. Improvements here fre-
needed for a multipurpose project in the Middle East.  quently depend more on the adoption of suitable
This project, designed to double the electric generating  price and other government policies, or on other kinds
capacity of Lebanon and to irrigate 8,500 acres of  of local initiative, than on external assistance. Recent
fertile coastal land in the Beirut area, will help to  experience has shown that areas where there has been
carry out the first phase of a program for the develop-  much investment directly in agriculture are not always
ment of the Litani and Bisri rivers. In Latin America  those where output has grown most rapidly. Striking
.10.



..-id.  0  0  .  .  .  ...   .                1i'                                                  I
4~~~~~~~~~~~
India . Building a new steel-melting shop at the Tata lron   The Co;npaniv is speniding $250 million to expand ingot steel
and Steel Works at Jamjlshedpurs, wheere the Tata Comi7pany  capacity to 2,000,000 long tons a year by 1958. In Juine 1956,
operates the largest itntegrated steel planit in Souftlh Asia.  the Bank nmade a $75 ,nillioll loan to assist thzis programn.
increases have been achieved with the help of better  machinery and automotive industries, all vital to the
basic services, more favorable government policies, or  continued economic growth of Japan. The funds will
progress in organization and methods.                 be used to modernize existing plants rather than to
establish new ones.
Industry                           A loan of $4.2 million was made for a modern pulp
Four loans totaling $93 million were made during the  and paper mill close to the bamboo forests of East
year, all in Asia, to help industrial growth. These  Pakistan. The mill is at present producing writing and
included a loan of $75 million in India to assist an   wrapping paper at the rate of about 25,000 tons a
expansion program aiming at a 60%  increase in the  year from local bamboo. This output is sufficient to
capacity of the privately-owned Tata Iron and Steel  meet all of Pakistan's present requirements of these
works at Jamshedpur, already one of the largest  kinds of paper. The Bank has worked closely with
integrated steel plants in Asia.                      the company on technical, managerial and other
Two loans, totaling $13.4 million, were made to the  problems, and is currently discussing with it the
Japan Development Bank. The proceeds are being   recommendations arising out of a recent visit by a
re-lent to private companies in the steel, ship-building,  Bank consultant.
11.



the balance on parts of loans that had been sold to
other investors. Borrowers also repaid in advance of
Net income for the year was the highest yet recorded,  maturity a total of $3.6 million. Total repayments of
amounting to $29.2 million compared with $24.7  principal, including prepayments, thus amounted to
million in the preceding year. This income was carried   slightly over $48 million.
to a Supplemental Reserve against losses on loans and    Because of a general rise in money rates in the
guarantees, increasing that Reserve to $151 million.  world's major capital markets, the Bank's interest
Loan commissions, representing a charge of 1% on   charges, which are based upon the estimated cost of
outstanding balances of all loans, totaled $15 million.  borrowing by the Bank at the time a loan is made,
The Articles of Agreement require that these com-  were raised toward the end of the year. Including the
missions be credited to a Special Reserve. With th-is  1% commission, the rate on loans of more than 15
year's addition the Special Reserve rose to $77 million.  years was raised from 43/4%  to 5%. The new rate for
At the end of the year total reserves thus stood at  shorter periods was set at 43/4%0, compared with the
$228 million.                                         two previous rates of 41¼4% up to ten years and 41/2%
Gross income for the year, excluding loan commis-  from  11 to 15 years. These changes returned Bank
sions, was $64 million compared with $59 million in  loan rates to the level of late 1953. Corresponding
the preceding year. It was made up of $54 million   adjustments were made in the prices at which loans
from loans and $10 million from investments. Interest  were sold from the Bank's portfolio.
charges and other expenses amounted to $35 million
compared with $34 million a year earlier.                       Funds A vailable for Lenlding
Borrowers met all repayments due during the year,  Total additions to the Bank's lendable funds during
amounting to almost $45 million; of this slightly over  the year amounted to the equivalent of $253 million,
$21 million was paid on loans held by the Bank, and   the year's operations being financed without net
SUMMARY OF LENDABLE FUNDS
(C'umlnatit e totals expressed in millionls of United States Dollars)
Jtiune 30, 1955 Jufne 30, 1956  Net Clianige
2%x  portion of subscription of all members   .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .    177.8     178.4      +  0.6
18%o portion of subscription made available by members   .  .  .  .  . .    764.5      893.1     +128.6
Total available capital subscriptions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    942.3   1,071.5     +129.2
From sales of bonds .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    851.6         850.2      -   1.4
From parts of loans sold or agreed to be sold   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    200.1     272.1*    +  72.0
From principal repayments and prepayments .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .    139.3         161.8*    +  22.5
Income from operations, including exchange adjustments  .  .  .  .  .  .    128.6      159.5      + 30.9
Gross Total  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2,261.9          2,515.1      +253.2
Less Funds Disbursed on Loans   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   1,679.7       1,963.7     +284.0
Balance.  .  .  .  .  .  ....   .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    582.2                551.4      - 30.8
Additional principal repayments amounting to about $3 million have been received and sales of loans amounting to about
$4 million have been made; bLut these sums represent 18C,1 funds which have not been made available for re-lending by the releasing
member country, and thus are not included in the total of the Bank's lendable funds.
.12.



additions to funded debt. In fact, although there were        USE OF CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTIONS
two new bond issues in Europe, the retirement of  The paid-in contributions of member governments to
earlier issues caused a slight decline in the total of Bank  the Bank's lendable funds consist of two elements.
bonds outstanding. The largest addition to lendable  The first is the 2%  of each country's subscription,
funds arose from further sums made available by mem-  which is payable in gold or dollars; the total of such
ber countries' releases of parts of their capital subscrip-  payments to the Bank now stands at $178 million.
tions payable in their own currencies; the Bank was  The second element, 18%/, of the subscription, is paid
able to allocate to loans $129 million of such releases,  in the currency of the member country, and can be
nearly three times the total in the preceding year.    lent only with its approval.
Sales of parts of Bank loans, all of them by private    The total of this 18% capital on the books of the
placement, amounted to the equivalent of $72 million.  Bank is equivalent to $1,629 million. It was expected
Principal repaid to the Bank and available for new   by the Bank's founders that these funds would be
lending amounted to $23 million, compared with  made available to it for use in lending operations as
$123 million last year, when there were large repay-  soon as early postwar stringencies had been overcome.
ments in advance of maturity. Net earnings together  To date, however, the total that the Bank has been
with exchange adjustments provided $31 million.     able to use in its lending, including amounts allocated
The table, "Summary of Lendable Funds," at the  to future disbursements, is equivalent to $893 million,
foot of the opposite page, summarizes the sources of  or about half of the total. Of this, $625 million is
the funds available for lending at the end of the last  made up of the original 18%7G capital subscriptions of
two fiscal years, and the net change over the period.   the United States and Canada. The remainder is
32.  .  .6.
*13-



made up of $256 million from  European countries,  years, and with foreign exchange reserves now mainly
$5.8 million from South Africa, $5 million from Japan,  restored from earlier low levels, an increasing number
and $1.6 million from two member countries in Latin  of the Bank's member countries are exporting capital
America-Mexico and Peru.                              in various ways and in some volume. The Bank
The rest of the 18%, funds, a sum  equivalent to  believes that these countries should not lose sight of
$736 million, has not been used or allocated, either  their obligation, flowing from the Articles of Agree-
because the member countries concerned have not  ment, to use the Bank as a channel for the export of
given their consent, or because restrictions placed on   capital to the extent of their 18%o subscriptions.
the use of the funds have been such as to prevent the    During the year additional releases of 18% capital
Bank from  using them. These restrictions include  used or allocated to loans totaled $129 million. These
requirements for further consultation before use or  releases came mainly from  European member coun-
for the matching of releases by equal expenditure of  tries, the largest contributions being made by the
other Bank funds in the territories of the member  United  Kingdom  and  Germany. Of the  United
country concerned; in other cases expenditure is only  Kingdom 1 8% funds, an additional amount equivalent
permitted in the particular member country making  to $58 million was allocated during the year. Germany
the release, or a limit is placed on the rate of disburse-  agreed to release $56 million, representing the whole
ment. In addition, many countries have not yet given   balance of its 18%/o subscription, on a freely con-
the Bank permission to re-lend 18%7 funds repaid to  vertible basis; but not all of this is as yet available for
it. The importance of this aspect is illustrated by the  use since the release is to be made in stages over a
fact that, of the original United States releases, $227   period of years. Funds released by Germany and used
million has since been repaid and re-lent. The maxi-  or allocated during the year were equivalent to $34
mum contribution is made by member governments  million. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, the
to the Bank's funds only when they can be freely lent  Netherlands and Sweden also made releases that can
and re-lent.                                           be converted into certain other currencies, or liberal-
For these reasons, the Bank has continued to press  ized the terms of releases previously made.
during the year for more releases to be made available               SALES OF PARTS OF LOANS
to it from  the 18%  subscriptions of its member  The $72 million raised through sales of parts of Bank
countries outside North America. With the very high  loans to investors compares with the record figure of
level of international trade built up over the past ten   $99 million in 1954-55. This decrease reflected the
more stringent conditions prevailing in the main
financial centers. More than four-fifths of the sales
18%  CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTIONS                    in the year under review  were made without the
JUNE 30, 1956                       Bank's guarantee.
(Expressed in tnillions of United States dollars)  Maturities taken up by private banks at the time
the loans were made contributed $14 million toward
Used or                 Used or
Region     allocated to   Total 18%    allocated as   total sales. There were participations of this kind, in
existing loans    capital   percent of total
Canada and                                 every case without the Bank's guarantee, in 18 out of
Unted States.   $624.9      $ 630.0        99        the 26 loans made during the year. The banks par-
Europe .  .  .    255.8         586.8        44        ticipating, nine in the United States, three in Europe
Latin America .      1.6         60.5         3        and one in Canada, included several which had not
Africa  .  .  .      5.8         28.1        21        peiul  atcptd
Asia .  .  .  .      5.0        287.7         2        previously participated.
Australasia .  .     -           36.0        -           The remainder of the total raised came from sales
Tts 81 161 5by private placement of parts of loans already made.
Totals   $893. l  _    ,629. l     MThese sales amounted to  $58 million. Purchasers
.14.



included  central and  private  banks, investment              FUNDS FROM BOND ISSUES
houses, an airline, a private foundation and a corpo-  New bond issues sold during the year amounted to the
ration pension fund.                               equivalent of $22 million,compared with $88 million in
As indicated in the accompanying chart, countries  the previous year. This decrease was partly due to the
outside the United States have become increasingly  additional funds available from 18%c releases and other
interested in the purchase of parts of Bank loans. At  receipts; it also reflected the Bank's earlier decision
the end of the fiscal year total sales of loans amounted  not to hold funds on hand sufficient to meet all loan
to $276 million, of which sales to purchasers outside  commitments. At the end of the year the balance of
the United States represented 57% and purchasers in  funds on hand, as shown in the accompanying table
the United States 43%. Of the total of $190 million  "Summary of Lendable Funds," was $551 million,
still outstanding at the end of the year, only $26 million  compared with undisbursed loan commitments of
carried the Bank's guarantee.                      $704 million. By holding funds to meet not less than
Investors showed further interest in the type of  one year's expected disbursements, the Bank remains
joint operation that the Bank had developed with the  amply protected against unforeseen developments,
capital market in the preceding year. Simultaneously  while at the same time reducing its interest costs.
with the Bank's £9 million loan to South Africa, a    As in the preceding year, all the new bond issues
public issue of $25 million was successfully arranged  were sold outside the United States, reflecting both
by an investment banking group in the United States,  the strength of the international demand for Bank
the proceeds to be used for the same purposes as the  obligations, and the need for more non-dollar cur-
loan. This issue, consisting mainly of ten-year bonds,  rencies in Bank operations.
was the first public offering by the South African    A public issue of Netherlands guilder bonds, the
Government in the United States.                  second to be made in that currency by the Bank, was
*15



offered in August 1955. It consisted of 20-year bonds  was held by investors in the United States. The
in an amount of f40 million (equivalent to S10.5  accompanying chart shows the change that has taken
million) at 31/2%. In November the Bank offered, also  place over the last three years in the international
at 3½2, an issue of 20-year bonds in an amount of  distribution of the Bank's obligations.
Sw fr 50 million (equivalent to $11.6 million). This    The principal holders in the United States were
was the sixth public issue of Bank bonds in Switzer-  pension and trust funds with more than 40% of the
land. It brought to 15 the total of public offerings and  total, and insurance companies and savings banks,
private placements so far made by the Bank in  which each held about 25%; the balance of the
currencies other than United States dollars.     holdings in the United States, about 5% of the total,
Redemptions totaled $23 million over the year,  was held by commercial banks and other investors.
resulting in a net reduction of $1 million in the    The remainder of the bonds, estimated at the
Bank's funded debt. In August 1955, the Bank re-  equivalent of $380 million and representing 45% of
deemed in advance of maturity Can$13.6 million of  the total outstanding, was held outside the United
its 407G 10-year Canadian dollar bonds of 1952. It also  States by banks, insurance companies, pension and
redeemed at maturity $10 million of its 2%  serial  trust funds, and other private institutional and indi-
United States dollars bonds of 1950, and Sw fr 5  vidual investors, as well as by central banks and
million of its 21/2%7 serial Swiss franc bonds of 1950.  government agencies. Included in the amount held
At the end of the year Bank bonds outstanding  outside the United States was $225 million in United
totaled the equivalent of $850 million. Of this it is  States dollar bonds, accounting for one-third of the
estimated that about $470 million, representing 55%,,  outstanding total of those bonds.
*16-



Disbursements                        through  the reconstruction  stage, however, other
manufacturing countries began to compete more
At the equivalent of $284 million, disbursements  actively for business, and their proportion of the
showed a slight increase over the rate in the preceding   orders increased.
year. Total disbursements since the Bank  began           Orders for equipment, supplies and services financed
operations had risen by the end of the year to $1,964   by Bank loans are, of course, placed by the Bank's
million.                                               borrowers and not by the Bank. The estimated dis-
In the ten years since the Bank started operations,  tribution of disbursements under Bank loans is shown
two-thirds of its disbursements have been for goods  in  the  accompanying  table. Although  there  are
bought in North America. This cumulative figure  inevitably a number of uncertainties in the allocation
reflects the fact that, in the early postwar period of  between countries, the table gives some indication of
acute dollar shortage, borrowers looked to the Bank  the extent to which different countries and areas have
primarily for financing purchases of United States and   been able to compete successfully for business in the
Canadian supplies. As the rest of the world passed  types of heavy equipment mainly financed by the Bank.
DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN EXPENDITURES IN INDIVIDUAL COUNTRIES
FISCAL YEARS ENDING JUNE 30
(Estimates rouinded to equlivalent in millionis of United States Dollars)
Cumnulative total                                                         Cutnulative total
Disbursemitentts by   through 1953         1954               1955               1956             to date
borrowers for                                               __-
imports from:      Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount    iG      Amount    %        Aiount   %
North America
U. S     .  .  .  $724.5  68.5        $128.5  50.7      $129.3  54.0       $114.9  50.5    $1097.3  61.7
Canada  .  .  .      71.4   6.8          7.2   2.8         7.9   3.3         16.0   7.0        102.5   5.8
Europe
U. K.   .  .  .      59.3   5.6         54.9  21.7         57.4  23.9        30.0  13.2        201.6  11.3
Germany   .  .       24.7   2.3         22.9   9.0        15.3   6.4         32.0  14.1         94.8   5.3
France  .  .  .      19.3   1.8         12.3   4.9        10.1   4.2          7.5   3.3         49.3   2.8
Belgium  .  .  .    45.5   4.3           9.9   3.9          1.8    .8         6.5   2.9         63.7   3.6
Switzerland .  .     22.1    2.1         5.5   2.2         4.6   1.9          5.3   2.3         37.5   2.1
Sweden  .  .  .       4.5    .4          2.8   1.1          4.4   1.8         3.4   1.5         15.1    .9
Other member
countries in
Europe.  .  .      17.8   1.7          6.9   2.7          5.4   2.3         7.6   3.3         37.7   2.1
All other countries    68.4   6.5          2.4   1.0          3.3   1.4          4.3   1.9        78.4   4.4
TOTALS  .  .  . $1057.5  100.0        $253.3  100.0     $239.5  100.0      $227.5  100.0    $1777.9  100.0
OTHER
DISBURSEMENTS*    45.8                48.9              34.7               56.4              185.8
GRAND TOTAL $1103.3                  $302.2             $274.2             $283.9            $1963.7
These include disbursements on loans in which the funds are used for local expenditures or
for broad development programs in which the items imported with Bank funds are not specified.
*17.



C frs                   e  r~    R. 7-,  -.7  -_ 7~u, t w~ ~ -r
Including loans made during the year the Bank has    Some examples are given below to illustrate the
now provided finance toward the addition of nearly  results that are being achieved by Bank borrowers; no
6½/2 million kilowatts to the generating capacity of its  attempt is made, however, to describe all the work
member countries, representing an amount equal to  accomplished during the year. The lending that is
about twice the whole capacity of Brazil or India.  helping to finance the projects referred to is tabulated
The Bank has also financed more than a dozen  in the Statement of Loans on pages 28-37.
national programs of highway improvements, and
about the same number of railway modernization                         Africa
programs. In addition, fifteen vital ports have been  In the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland a 200-
renovated with the aid of Bank funds. Apart from this  mile rail link was completed to provide this land-
investment in basic services, the Bank has supported a  locked area with a new outlet to the sea. This South
wide range of agricultural and industrial develop-  East Connection runs from  Bannockburn in the
ments.                                             Bulawayo area to the Mozambique border, where it
Continued progress was made during the year by  joins another new  line, built by the Portuguese
borrowers in carrying forward projects and programs  Government and terminating at the port of Lourenvo
financed by Bank loans of earlier years. As was to be  Marques. This new construction, together with diesel
expected, some enterprises encountered difficulties,  locomotives and freight cars also included in the
either during construction or after completion. Some-  program assisted by the Bank, has helped to reduce
times the problems were attributable to changes in  congestion at Beira, the port which formerly had to
the local or world economy, or to unforeseen construc-  handle most of the overseas trade of the Federation.
tion difficulties or even to bad weather. But other  Already half the Federation's copper exports and
difficulties, both in Government projects and in  more than half of its asbestos exports, as well as a
private undertakings, were internal; they resulted  considerable volume of imports, are carried by the
from weaknesses in management, whose functions are  South East Connection.
often given too narrow an interpretation, particularly    In South Africa a railway expansion program
in countries unused to modern operating techniques  financed with the help of $50 million lent in earlier
in public utilities and other large-scale enterprises. It  years by the Bank has already done much to provide
is not enough for management to possess the ability  for the large increase in traffic. The Bank loans were
to supervise the technical processes of production.  used mainly for steam and electric locomotives, rolling
Other qualities are needed for the success of the  stock, rails and workshop equipment. Exports of
enterprise as a whole, and their absence can result in  coal, chrome, manganese, iron ore and other products,
delays and financial losses due to inadequate prepara-  of which an estimated 7 million tons a year have been
tion, poor planning, inappropriate accounting or  held back from production through lack of transport,
personnel systems, or inflexible output and price  are now moving more readily. The new loan of £9
policies.                                          million made during the year will contribute to the
In several instances during the year the Bank  further investment now required on account of the
became aware of such difficulties, and was able to  continued growth of traffic.
assist in overcoming them. In this respect as in others,    French  West Africa is now  receiving the final
close contact with borrowers on both the execution  deliveries of diesel locomotives financed by a Bank
and operation of projects enabled the Bank to offer  loan of $7.5 million as part of a $90 million re-
timely help.                                       habilitation program. The railway company estimates
.18-



AK
Rhodesia and Nyasaland . Already hlalf of the new Fede-  from  BannocA -buirnl ntear Bulawayo, to thle Mozamilbique
ration's exports of copper and asbestos flow to foreign  bordet  where it mneets anothter neew line, built by tlte
markets by a new trade route-a rail connection t unwuziiig  Pot tuguecse Govetrument, to the port of Louirenco Marques.
that a saving equivalent to approximately $4,500 per              Asia anid Middlle East
month will result from  replacement of each steam   Three projects concerned with the control and use of
locomotive by a diesel on the routes where traffic  river water were completed or carried an important
is heaviest.                                         stage forward in Asia. In Iraq a $45-million flood-
With the help of Bank funds a telecommunications  control project, part of a larger plan which will also
project in Ethiopia has brought considerable improve-  include irrigation services, was completed this year in
ments in contact between main Ethiopian cities and  time to save Baghdad from flood damage during the
also with foreign capitals. This has been achieved by  season of high water. A barrage located on the Tigris
the installation of new teletype and telephone circuits  50 miles above Baghdad directs flood water into a
between principal cities and by the construction of  diversion channel leading into a barren depression
more powerful radio receivers and transmitters to  known as the Wadi Tharthar. These works provide
carry international traffic. Automatic telephone ex-  protection against the floods from which the capital
changes have been installed in Addis Ababa and  and surrounding agricultural areas have suffered from
Gondar, and manual exchanges in other towns.         earliest times, and which in 1954 caused damage
19*



estimated at more than the total cost of the project.  products, fertilizer and other heavy cargoes sustaining
The loan for this project was made six years ago, and  the continued industrial growth of the area.
was fully repaid early in 1955 in advance of maturity.    The Konar Dam, which is helping to regulate the
Works completed in India will provide additional  flow of water in the upper reaches of the Damodar
power and water transport as well as irrigation   River, was completed during the year. The water
services in the Damodar Valley, the country's most  stored by the dam  will later serve as a source of
important industrial area. Progress made tinder a  hydroelectric power, and is already being used for
very large multi-purpose development program under-  cooling in the thermal power plant built at Bokaro
taken by the Damodar Valley Corporation includes  with the help of Bank funds. Some of the power
completion of a barrage at Durgapur, which forms  prodtIced at Bokaro is supplied to the Indian Iron and
part of an irrigation system to provide water for one  Steel Company and the Tata Iron and Steel Company,
million acres in West Bengal. In the same area good  to both of which the Bank has made loans. Increased
progress is being made on an 80-mile channel that  power supplies are encouraging the erection of many
will serve both as the main source of irrigation water  small factories in the area, and rapid industrial
and as a navigation canal linking the Damodar River  growth is taking place throughout the Valley.
with the Hooghly River above Calcutta. The canal is    On the Chao Phya, the major river artery of
expected to be completed late in 1957 and will then   Thailand, the main construction works of a barrage
be available to carry cement, coal, iron and steel  and navigation lock near Chainat, 100 miles north
I'akistan . A control station on the Saii Gas pipeline, first  16-inch pipeline brings natural gas friom the Sui field in
cf its kind in Sonth Asia, which rinns over 350 mniles of' Baluclhistan tlhrouigh the Induis Valley to Karachi. The
difficult terrain, and twice crosses the River Indcts. This  gas provides fuel for power generation and for indutstry.
*20.



of Bangkok, have been completed. The project  of nearly $1,100 million; two-thirds of this has been
will provide irrigation water for about 21/4 million  for land reclamation and improvement, flood and
acres, thus increasing the crops of rice, soya beans  erosion control and water supply, and the remainder
and other products needed for both home and export  for roads, railways, industry and tourist services.
markets. It will also provide for year-round navigation  With various new or expanded plants now operating
on the principal waterways in the Central Plain.   in the South there has been a considerable increase in
Power supplies available to feed vital industries as  industrial employment, while more intensive farming
well as commercial and residential markets were  was marked by a doubling of the number of tractors
increased by the completion of two power plants with  in the first four years of the program. Higher living
a total capacity of 141,000 kilowatts in Japan. Another  standards and increased economic activity have been
thermal plant financed by the Bank is already partly  reflected in a doubling of power consumption and a
in operation and is expected to be completed, with a  rapid increase in the number of cars on the roads.
capacity of 150,000 kilowatts, within a few months.  The effort is directed toward the South, where farm
The three plants represent an increase of 3% in the  output per acre has often been only about lhalf that
total public power supply of Japan. Power from these  of the North, but the whole country is benefiting from
plants is serving light and heavy industries on Honshu,  the increased business arising out of the Cassa's
and Japan's largest coal-producing area on Kyushu.  activities.
The first natural gas pipeline in South Asia came    In Finland two hydroelectric stations were completed
into operation nine months ago in West Pakistan.  during the year, and another is expected to come into
This 16-inch pipeline stretches 346 miles from the Sui  operation within a few months. This will add a total
gas fields in Baluchistan to Karachi. Construction  of 95,000 kilowatts, representing an increase of about
began in the summer of 1954 and the first delivery of  7% in Finland's present capacity. The pulp and paper
gas was made in September 1955; the laying of pipe  industry, which accounts for by far the largest part of
was completed in five and one-half months. Apart  Finland's exports, takes nearly half the power. New
from small supplies for Hyderabad and Sukkur, main  pulp manufacturing capacity added during the year at
deliveries are to large consumers in the Karachi area,  existing mills with the help of the Bank amounted to
including the electric power company, cement, tex-  about 250,000 tons.
tiles, ceramics and other industries. A 30,000-kilowatt    A multi-purpose dam completed during the year on
power station being built with Bank help will also  the Seyhan River in south-central Tu,key has brought
start using the gas within a few months, and first  a general improvement in the economic prospects of
deliveries to homes will begin shortly. The throughput  the area. A hydroelectric station with a capacity of
of the line at present averages 20 million cubic feet  36,000 kilowatts is now in operation, and will allow
per day, and is expected to reach twice this figure by  for the further industrial growth of three nearby
the end of 1956.                                  towns. Certain problems concerning drainage in the
Adana Plain are being attacked so that work can go
Euirope                       forward on plans to irrigate 350,000 acres of fertile
Bank loans contributed to both industry and agri-  land in the area of the dam. Cotton, grain, oilseeds,
culture in a number of European countries. In Italy  and citrus fruits are expected to be the major crops,
the Bank has now lent a total of $90 million to the  and part of the increased production will be available
Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, a government agency set  for export. The floods which formerly ravaged this
up to launch a far-reaching attack on the traditional  part of Turkey caused damage estimated at the
poverty of the South. This 12-year program has now   equivalent of $3 million a year to crops and property.
reached mid-point. Public and private investments   In Belgium the Baudouin Lock at the approaches
already approved under it amount to the equivalent  to Antwerp was completed. The new lock can handle
*21t



Belgium  o The recently completed Baudouin Lock, at the
PorXt of Antwerp, can accommlodate fosir 10,000-ton shaips
at a time. This lock is the first project to be completed in a
ser-ies of schemies for canal mioderniization and imiprovement
_f great importance to Belgian transport and trade; the
Bank made a loan ofi$20 million Jwr this purpose in 1954.
170 miles of roads reconstructed with Bank help and,
although paving will take several more years to
complete, mtuch traffic is already using the roads. The
benefits of the program are illustrated by the fact that
the cost of transporting coffee to the Matagalpa
market from the surrounding hills was cut to one-
quarter by the opening of a new road link across a
nearby mountain range.
Large additions were made during the year to the
power capacity installed with the help of Bank funds.
four 10,000-ton vessels at a time, giving it a capacity  In Mexico the Copisi6n Federal de Electricidad
foLir times that of the old lock. Because of the elimi-  completed three hydroelectric plants and one thermal
nation of delays, which formerly lasted as long as  plant with a total capacity of over 100,000 kilowatts.
18 hours at times of heavy traffic, substantial savings   Power from two of these plants, forming part of the
are already being achieved by ships using the port.  Miguel Alemin system  in the mountains west of
Mexico City, is supplied to the city through the net-
Latiao  America                      work of the Mexican Light and Power Company, also
The economy of Colomibia is benefiting from work so   a Bank borrower. The Company has recently more
far accomplished with the help of three Bank loans  than doubled its own generating capacity by com-
for a road program under which 2,000 miles of main   pleting new plants with a total capacity of 153,000
highway are being improved. Three-quarters of the   kilowatts. With the help of these investments power
grading and half of the paving have now been cor-  deliveries in the Mexico City area were 12%  higher
pleted, and on a considerable part of the mileage all  in 1955 than in the previous year.
work has been finished. Traffic has already grown        In Brazil a second 12,000-kilowatt hydroelectric
rapidly; motor fuel consumption and vehicle regis-  unit was brouight into operation five months ahead of
trations have doubled in the last four years. Significant  schedule at Itutinga. This completed a project to
reductions in the cost of transport and in travel time  increase the supply in the Belo Horizonte area, in
between  regions have been  achieved. Meanwhile  southern Minas Gerais, where a large part of Brazil's
Colombian agriculture has been strengthened by a  industrial activity is centered. Four-fifths of the plant's
loan  which  has financed  imports of agricultural  output is expected to be used for industry, with a steel
equipment, including the purchase of nearly 1,000   mill and a cement factory as the largest consumers.
tractors during the year.                              This is a run-of-river plant producing power at
Construction of a network of good primary roads  appreciably lower costs than in other parts of Brazil.
in Nicaragua is now nearing completion. Grading and      Ways in which the Bank can help to increase food
structurcs havc been finished on a grcat part of the   supplies and  stimulate  agricultural output were
-22.



:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Peru  The new grain elevators and loading towers in the
Port of Callao wvere imt7ported and installed with the aid of
a Bank loan of $2.5 million. These installations, together-
with other new equipment, have helped to transform Callao,
previously a cause of congestion and delay for shipping,
into one of the most efficient seaports in Latin America.
illustrated in two Latin American countries. A grain
processing and storage plant completed during the
year is for the first time making it possible to use
modern methods of handling locally-produced food i
grains in Panama. Hitherto there has been no effective
means of drying, cleaning and storing corn and beans,
the main food crops grown in Panama, and 20 to 30%
of the year's output has been lost. Farmers have             _
received very low prices during the glut season, while
consumers have had to pay scarcity prices during the
remainder of the year. All-year availability of food  to adopt new  production methods. Government
grains kept in good condition in the new plant is  machinery pools, using equipment financed by the
expected to eliminate the need to pay for imports of  Bank, have increased leveling and other reclamation
corn and beans, and at the same time improve  work fourfold since 1952. A recent decline in the
nutritional standards.                            amount of cultivation carried out by the pools partly
In Peru also, new grain-handling and storage equip-  reflects increased buying by farmers of their own
ment, installed with the proceeds of a Bank loan,  tractors. In line with this increased demand, funds
came into operation in the Port of Callao. This  have more recently been provided by the Bank for an
completed a modernization program  which, under  agricultural bank which is now importing and selling
good management, has made Callao one of the most  on credit about 150 tractors a year, representing one-
efficient ports in Latin America. Wheat imports occupy  quarter of the total imported.
an important position in the food supply of Peru, and    Work in agriculture and transport financed by a
constitute a substantial part of the incoming cargo  loan nearly five years ago in Paraguay has progressed
handled in Callao. In the absence of any kind of bulk-  more slowly than had been expected. But delays are
handling equipment, wheat worth about $500,000 was  being gradually overcome. The 250-mile highway
lost each year during unloading. In addition to  between Asunci6n and Encarnacion on the Parana
eliminating the greater part of this loss, use of the  River is nearing completion. It provides a direct and
new discharging towers and silos has contributed to  dependable link between the capital and the promising
large reductions in shipping costs by making it  agricultural lands in south-eastern Paraguay, and
possible to unload a ship in about 20 hours compared  further work is now being undertaken on roads in the
with eight to ten days previously. These installations  area. At the same time arrangements are being made
were completed at substantially less than the estimated  to use Bank funds to acquire a dredge, principally
cost, and the remaining funds are being used for  for use on the Paraguay River, and thus to improve
further improvements in the Port of Callao.       river navigation, which forms an essential part of
Bank funds have also been helping Peru's farmers  the transport system of Paraguay.
*23



Apart from its loans, the Bank has continued to give  mission was the first to confine its attention to the
assistance on other problems of development, and  development problems of a particular region.
particularly on the programming of public investment    The Bank's missions have now been in operation
and the formulation of public policies bearing on  long enough for some of the effects to be seen. In no
economic development.                             case, of course, has a country adopted and imple-
During the year work was carried out on the reports  mented the recommendations of a mission in toto. A
of four missions which visited member countries or  report must go through a process of selection, adapta-
territories to prepare recommendations for programs  tion and assimilation by the country itself. Results
of economic development: the reports on Syria and  have varied from country to country on the basis of
Malaya were published, and the report of the mission  many factors such as the leadership and interest
to Jordan was nearing completion. A mission to study  available in the government, political considerations
the economic prospects and problems of the Italian  that affect economic decisions, and the extent to which
Trust Territory of Sonmaliland finished its field work  the mission's recommendations are practical and
during the year. In addition, the Bank's resident  persuasive.
mission is completing a report and recommendations    Nevertheless, a substantial number of specific
on the economic development of Panama.            accomplishments can be attributed in whole or in part
The Bank continued its policy of posting resident  to the work of Bank missions. A few examples are the
representatives in a number of countries to give  highway programs in Colom1bia and Honduras, newly-
assistance in dealing with development problems. The  undertaken railway rehabilitation in Jamaica, the
countries concerned were Colonmbia, Ecuador, Guate-  passage of income tax legislation in Nicaragua,
mala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.             changes in the education program  in Malaya, the
Two missions drew up recommendations on par-  adoption of federal and regional development pro-
ticular aspects of development in Colombia. One  grams and the reorganization of development institu-
advised the newly created Cauca Valley Corporation  tions in Nigeria, the preparation of a five-year invest-
on initial steps to be taken in the coordinated develop-  ment program in Guatemala, and the reorganization of
ment of the resources of the Valley; the other made  public debt administration in Syria. There is of course
recommendations for a long-term program to develop  no way for the Bank to learn of all the effects of the
agriculture.                                      many mission recommendations-whether, for in-
Beginning with the mission that undertook a general  stance, they have been an important factor making
survey of the economy of Colombia in 1949, the Bank  for an increase in a budget for agricultural research,
now has given 21 countries assistance in programming  or for better gathering of statistics by government
their development. The Bank has most often given this  offices, or for the rejection of doubtful development
help through general survey missions, of which it has  projects.
organized 14. It has also employed resident missions,    Often the reports represent the first attempt in a
of which there have been four, to advise generally on  country to make a systematic analysis of the economy
measures for economic development; and in one case,  as a whole and to project the developmental process
a joint working party composed of Bank economists  over a number of years. A few countries have an-
and representatives of the member country made an  nounced their intention to use the report as the official
investigation of investment trends and needs through-  basis of development planning. A number of countries
out the economy. Three other missions have dealt with  have created new bodies for central economic pro-
agricultural development alone; the Cauca Valley  gramming and others have changed or strengthened
.24.



their approach to programming. Regardless of whether  March 1957, was taken under consideration by the
formal action of this kind has been taken, one of the  two governments toward the end of the fiscal year.
most important results of the missions is the influence  The firm of engineering consultants engaged by the
they have exerted in favor of a coordinated long-term   Bank to collaborate in the discussions has completed
approach to development problems.                 a number of studies of the problems involved. As the
The needs of the Bank's member countries for  year closed the Bank was conferring with the partici-
advisory assistance are varied and changing, and the  pating Governments concerning the continuation of
Bank's attitude is therefore kept flexible. Apart from  the discussions.
general survey missions and related activities, the
Bank continued during the year to provide assistance     Economic Development Institute
to a number of countries on specific problems.  A new kind of international staff college came into
In Mexico the Bank collaborated in an analysis  existence under Bank sponsorship during the year.
of the country's future power needs and of ways  With financial support from the Ford and Rockefeller
in which these could be financed. A  report has  Foundations the Bank set up the Economic Develop-
been drawn up and submitted to the Government and  ment Institute in Washington with the objective of
others concerned. A mission visited Pakistan to discuss  contributing to an improvement in the quality of
a proposal to establish a privately-owned industrial  economic management in government and helping
credit and investment company and in Ceylon staff  officials from less-developed countries to equip them-
members gave advice on the organization of the  selves for dealing with the practical problems of
Development Finance Corporation. Staff members  development. The Institute's first six-month course
also spent several weeks in Uruguay to advise on the  was concluded in June.
possibilities of strengthening the capital market as a    The difficulties encountered in some of the work of
source of funds for productive investment. Bank  the Bank, as of other agencies concerned with eco-
consultants gave advice in Japan on land reclamation.  nomic development, have underlined the fact that
As in past years, the Bank helped member countries  shortage of capital is not the only obstacle to progress.
to obtain specialists for economic development work.  Inexperience in formulating sound economic and
They were concerned with such different matters as  financial policies, and shortage of trained adminis-
sulphur processing in Iraq, railway operations in  trators, are often even more serious handicaps. In
Thailand, public debt management in Syria and port  various cases they have led to misdirection of effort
administration in Turkey. The Bank helped to find  and waste of urgently-needed resources.
foreign experts to work in the Seven Year Plan    Since the Institute's courses are attended by officials
Organization of Iran, and a Bank staff member on  in positions of authority from many countries and are
leave of absence is chief of the bureau in which these  intended to increase their familiarity with practical
experts have been gathered. Another staff member on  problems, the Institute's time is devoted to discussion
leave continued to serve during the year as director of  and the pooling of experience rather than to formal
the Ceylon Institute of Scientific and Industrial  instruction. Its syllabus concentrates on actual situ-
Research.                                         ations and on policies concerned with those sectors of
With Bank collaboration, discussions continued  the economy that are of special importance to develop-
between India and Pakistan regarding the use of the  ment. Full use is made of the lessons that can be
Indus waters. An  inter-governmental agreement  learned from studying the planning and the results
covering additional withdrawals of water by India for  achieved in the case of particular projects.
the October 1955-March  1956 crop season was    The first course was attended by fourteen officials
reached early in that season. A  new  agreement,  from as many member countries-Colombia, Haiti
covering the next two crop periods and ending in  and Mexico in Latin America; Ceylon, India, Japan,
.25.



Plakistan. the Philippines and Thailand in Asia; the  and Mr. P. S. Narayan Prasad, Executive Director
B3elgian Congo, Egypt, Nigeria and Uganda in Africa;  for India in the International Monetary Fund, to
and Yugoslavia in Europe. The officials occupy senior  conduct seminars in subjects in which they have
positions in finance ministries, ministries of economy,  special qualifications. In addition, guest speakers of
central banks, planning bodies or other government  recognized authority from  government service and
agencies responsible for economic development plans  academic and business life addressed the Institute or
and policies. They will thus be directly concerned,  led seminar discussions.
after returning to their homes, with the kind of    The Institute was launched on a tentative basis and
problems studied at the Institute and should be in a  will be judged according to the results achieved by
position  to  make  effective contributions  to  the  successive courses. Arrangements are now well ad-
economic development of their countries.             vanced for the second and third courses. The second
The Bank made available two of its staff members,  will begin in October 1956 and end in the following
Mr. John H. Adler and Mr. William  Diamond, to   March. It is expected to have about 20 participants,
serve full-time with the Institute under the first  most of whom have already been selected. Mr. K. S.
Director, Professor A. K. Cairncross of Glasgow   Krishnaswamy, formerly of the Reserve Bank of India,
University; the Bank also provided speakers from its  will be added to the staff of the Institute for this
staff and documents illustrating the experience gained   course. Those who will conduct seminars will include
in its own operations. Apart from  the full-time  Professor Jan Tinbergen of the Netherlands Economic
members, the staff of the Institute was supplemented   University, and Mr. Javier Marquez, Director of the
by Professor Ragnar Nurkse of Columbia University   Center for Latin American Monetary Studies.
Economic Development Institute . This new economic staff  seminars, to studv problems of economic development. The
college opened its first course on January 9, 1956. Fourteen  second six months course begins in October, wiith about
senior officials from as many countries participated in its  twentyselectedparticipantsfrom theless developedcountries.
.26.



INTERN ATiAONA   F IANCE COR PORATION3
The International Finance Corporation came into  the Corporation was held on July 24, 1956. At this
being shortly after the end of the fiscal year, as an  meeting by-laws and rules of procedure were adopted.
affiliate of the Bank.                          Mr. Robert L. Garner, who had served as Vice-
The Articles of Agreement of the Corporation  President of the Bank since 1947, was appointed
required that a minimum of 30 countries, with capital  President of the Corporation. Mr. J. G. Beevor,
subscriptions totaling at least $75 million, should  formerly Managing Director of the Commonwealth
accept membership of the Corporation to bring it into  Development Finance Company Limited of London,
being. These requirements were met on July 20, 1956,  is Vice-President.
when the number of member countries reached thirty-    The purpose of the Corporation is to promote the
one, with capital subscriptions totaling $78,366,000.  growth of productive private enterprise, particularly
The member countries up to that date included  in the less-developed countries. It will seek to do so
thirteen in Latin America, eight in Europe, seven in  by investing its own funds in association with private
Asia and the Middle East, and three in other regions.  capital where this is not available in sufficient quantity
The largest stockholders are the United States and  and on reasonable terms; by acting as a clearing house
the United Kingdom, whose subscriptions aggregate  in bringing together investment opportunities and
almost $50 million of the $100 million authorized  private capital, whether foreign or domestic; and by
capital of the Corporation.                     helping to enlist managerial skill and experience where
The inaugural meeting of the Board of Directors of  these are not already available for a project.
MEMBERSHIP, SU3SCRIPTIONS AND STA;F
Afghanistan, with a capital subscription of $10  Nations, the Organization of American States, the
million, joined the Bank in July 1955, and Korea,  O.E.E.C., the Colombo Plan Organization and other
with a subscription of $12.5 million, joined in Au-  bodies.
gust. This brought the membership of the Bank to    The principal officers of the Bank remained un-
58, and its subscribed capital to $9,050.5 million.   changed up to the end of the fiscal year. On July 24,
Following the arrangement made in 1954, China  1956, however, following the appointment of Mr.
paid $70,000 in May 1956 on account of the unpaid  Robert L. Garner as President of the new Inter-
portion of its capital subscription, and furnished  national Finance Corporation, extensive changes were
economic data relating to its capacity to pay the  made in the Bank's officers.
balance remaining due.                            Three new Vice-Presidents were promoted from the
The Bank's staff increased to 511, compared with  staff of the Bank. They are Mr. W. A. B. Iliff, formerly
483 last year. At the end of the year nationals of 37  Assistant to the President, Mr. J. Burke Knapp,
countries were serving on the regular staff. Although  formerly Director of Operations for the Western
there had been changes in the countries from which  Hemisphere, and Mr. Davidson Sommers, who
staff members were drawn, the number of countries  remains the Bank's General Counsel. The vacancies
had remained unchanged over the year. In addition,  created by these appointments were also filled by
36 consultants from 14 countries had been engaged  staff members, and included new Directors of the
for special short-term assignments. During the year  Legal Department and of the Department of Opera-
staff members attended meetings of other international  tions, Western Hemisphere.
agencies concerned with development work, including    A list of the officers of the Bank, including the new
various organs and Specialized Agencies of the United  appointments, is given in Appendix M.
*27-



Interest
rate
Loan                                                 Date of       Original  (includin,
Borrower and guarantor,          number             Program or project              loan agreement    maturities commissio
AUSTRALIA                            29 AU    Equipment for development .  .  .  .  . Aug. 22, 1950   1955-1975   41/4 %
66 AU    Equipment for development .  .  .  .  . July  8, 1952   1957-1972   434%
96 AU    Equipment for development .  .  .  .  . Mar. 2, 1954   1957-1969   43/4%X/
111 AU    Equipment for development.  .  .  .  . Mar. 18, 1955   1958-1970  45/s%
TOTA
AUSTRIA (Guarantor)
Verbundgesellschaft, Draukraftwerke 102 AUA   Electric power development .  .  .  .  . July 19, 1954   1959-1979   4¾34%
Vorarlberger Illwerke             118 AUA  Electric power development .  .  .  .  . June 14, 1955   1960-1979   43/4 %
TOTA
BELGIUM                              14 BE    Equipment for steel and power industries . Mar. 1, 1949   1953-1969   41/4¼%
48 BE    Belgian Congo Development Plan .  . . Sept. 13, 1951   1957-1976   4'/c%
107 BE    Waterways and port improvements   .  . Dec. 14, 1954   1965-1969   4 Y8 %
BELGIUM (Guarantor)
Belgian Congo                      47 BE    Belgian Congo Development Plan .  .  . Sept. 13, 1951   1957-1976   41/2 %
TOTAj
BRAZIL                               65 BR    Railway rehabilitation   .  .  .  .  . . June 27, 1952   1955-1967   4Y8 %
75 BR    Highway maintenance and improvement . Apr. 30, 1953   1954-1959   41/4%
92 BR    Railway rehabilitation   .  .  .  .  .  . Dec. 18, 1953   1959-1969   4 7%
BRAZIL (Guarantor)
Brazilian Traction (1st Installment)   11 BR    Electric power & telephones.    . .  .  . Jan. 27, 1949   1953-1974   4'/2%
Brazilian Traction (2nd Installment)   11-BR-S Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Jan. 18, 1951   1955-1976   41/4%
Brazilian Traction                 95 BR    Electric power development .  .  .  .  .  Feb. 24, 1954   1955-1974   47/8%
Sao Francisco Hidro Elet. Co.      25 BR    Electric power development .  .  .  .  .  May 26, 1950   1954-1975   414%
Coom. Estadual Energia Eletrica    64 BR    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . June 27, 1952   1957-1977   43/4%
CEARG & CEMIG                      76 BR    Electric power development .  .  .  . . July 17, 1953   1957-1973       5%,
Usinas Eletrica Paranapanema       93 BR    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Dec. 18, 1953   1958-1974      5%,
TOTAI
BURMA                               139 BA    Railway development   .  .  .  .  .  .  May 4, 1956   1959-1971   43/4¾%
BURMA (Guarantor)
Rangoon Port Commissioners        140 BA    Port development .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  May 4, 1956   1960-1976   43/4%
TOTAf
CEYLON                              101 CE    Electric power development .  .  .  .    July  9, 1954   1959-1979   43/4%
CHILE (Guarantor)
Fomento and Endesa                  5 CH    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Mar. 25, 1948   1953-1968   41/2%
Fomento                             6 CH    Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Mar. 25, 1948   1950-1955   33/4%
Fomento                            49 CH    Exploration for and use of water  .  .  . Oct. 10, 1951   1955-1961   434/%
Fomento & Papeles y Cartones       83 CH    Construction of paper and pulp mills      Sept. 10, 1953   1958-1970    5%
TOTAL
COLOMBIA                             43 CO    Highway construction and rehabilitation    Apr. 10, 1951   1954-1961   37/8%
84 CO    Highway construction and rehabilitation    Sept. 10, 1953   1956-1963   43/4%
68 CO    National railways project  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 26, 1952   1957-1978   43/4%
144 CO    Highway construction and rehabilitation  . June 6, 1956   1959-1971   43/4 %
*28-



EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
Effective loans sold      Effective                  Undisbursed
Original    Loans     Cancellations    Principal  or agreed to be sold,        loans         Principal   balance of
principal    not yet     anid      repavments                                  held by        amount      effective
amount    effective2    refandings  to Bank     Total sales  Portion mnatured4  Bank        disbursed      loans
S 100,000,000 $    -      $   -       $    115,000 $  8,394,000 $ 3,024,000   $ 91,491,000   $ 100,000,000 $    -
50,000,000      -           -            -          3,800,000     -           46,200,000     50,000,000      -
54,000,000      -           -            -          2,250,000     -           51,750,000     54,000,000      -
54,500,000      -           -            -         10,400,000     -           44,100,000     43,009,482    11,490,518
258,500,000      -           -           115,000   24,844,000    3,024,000    233,541,000    247,009,482    11,490,518
12,000,000     -                         -            -           -           12,000,000      5,654,106    6,345,894
10,000,000     -            -            -           153,000      -            9,847,000      5,799,468    4,200,532
22,000,000      -           -            -            153,000     -           21,847,000     11,453,574    10,546,426
16,000,000      -           -            -         16,000,000   3,500,000        -           16,000,000      -
30,000,000      -           -            -          5,410,000     -           24,590,000     30,000,000      -
20,000,000      -           -            -            -           -           20,000,000     12,145,616    7,854,384
40,000,000      -           -            -          4,786,234     -           35,213,766     40,000,000      -
106,000,000      -                        -         26,196,234    3,500,000    79,803,766     98,145,616    7,854,384
12,500,000      -           -           818,000       -           -           11,682,000      9,410,123    3,089,877
3,000,000      -           -          1,200,000      -           -            1,800,000      2,981,024       18,976
12,500,000      -           -            -            -           -           12,500,000      8,565,771    3,934,229
75,000,000      -           -          1,164,467    4,028,411    1,835,533    69,807,122     75,000,000      -
15,000,000      -           -           200,000       -           -           14,800,000     15,000,000      -
18,790,000      -           -          1,000,000      -           -           17,790,000     18,790,000      -
15,000,000      -           -           954,905       -           -           14,045,095     14,867,032      132,968
25,000,000      _           -            -            -           -           25,000,000        -         25,000,000
7,300,000      -           -            -          1,047,000     -            6,253,000      6,895,705      404,295
10,000,000      -           -            -            -           -           10,000,000      4,386,130    5,613,870
194,090,000     -           -           5,337,372    5,075,411    1,835,533   183,677,217    155,895,785    38,194,215
5,350,000    5,350,000     -            -            -           _              _              _
14,000,000    14,000,000    -            -            -
19,350,000    19,350,000                 -            -                          - _
19,110,000      -                        -            -                       19,110,000      3,561,424    15,548,576
13,500,000     -           -           2,079,000      82,000      -           11,339,000     13,500,000      -
2,500,000      -           -           755,000     1,745,000    1,745,000       -            2,500,000      -
1,300,000     -           445,544       80,000      633,000     166,000        141,456        854,456       -
20,000,000      -           -            -            -           -           20,000,000      6,698,355    13,301,645
37,300,000      -          445,544     2,914,000    2,460,000    1,911,000    31,480,456     23,552,811    13,301,645
16,500,000      -           -          3,471,000     800,000     800,000      12,229,000     16,500,000      -
14,350,000      -           -           748,000       -           -           13,602,000     12,464,383    1,885,617
25,000,000      -           -            -            -           -           25,000,000     11,095,338    13,904,662
16,500,000    16,500,000    -            -            -           -              -              -
*29-



STATEMENT OF LOANS (continued)
Inlter-est
role
Loan                                                 Date of        Originial . (inclluding
Borrower and gutarantorl       17umber               Program or project            loan agreement    mnaturities commnissio,
COLOMBIA (Guarantor)
Caja de Credito                     18 CO    Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 19, 1949   1952-1956   31/2%
Caja de Credito                   108 CO    Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  .  Dec. 29, 1954   1957-1961   4¼1/4
CHIDRAL                             38 CO    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Nov. 2, 1950   1954-1970        4%,
CHIDRAL                            113 CO    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Mar. 24, 1955   1959-1975   43/4%
Caldas Hidro-Elec. Co.             39 CO    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Dec. 28, 1950   1952-1971        4%
Hidroelectrica del Rio Lebrija     54 CO    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Nov. 13, 1951   1954-1972   41/2%
F. F. C. C.                       119 CO    National railways project  .  .  .  .  . June 15, 1955   1958-1980   43/4%67
TOTAl
DENMARK                                3 DE    Post-war reconstruction .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 22, 1947   1953-1972   41¼4%
ECUADOR (Guarantor)
Com. Ejec. Vialidad (Guayas)       94 EC      Highway construction   .  .  .  .  .  . Feb. 10, 1954   1958-1964   45Y%
Empresa Electrica Quito, S. A.     137 EC    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Mar. 29, 1956   1959-1976   43/4%
TOTA
EL SALVADOR                          104 ES     Coastal highway project .  .  .  .  .  . Oct. 12, 1954   1959-1966   41/2%
EL SALVADOR (Guarantor)
Comision del Rio Lempa             22 ES      Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Dec. 14, 1949   1954-1975   414%
TOTAL
ETHIOPIA                              31 ET     Highway rehabilitation  .  .  .  .  .  . Sept. 13, 1950   1956-1971     4%
32 ET     Foreign exchange for Development Bank . Sept. 13, 1950   1956-1971      4%
42 ET    Telecommunications .  .  .  .  .  .  . Feb. 19, 1951   1956-1971         4%
TOTA'
FINLAND                               21 Fl     Equipment for timber production  .  .  . Oct. 17, 1949   1950-1951      3%
FINLAND (Guarantor)
Bank of Finland                     16 FL     Power, wood processing and limestone      Aug. 1, 1949   1953-1964      4%
Bank of Finland                    61 FI    Power, wood processing and agriculture     Apr. 30, 1952   1955-1970   43/¾%
Bank of Finland                    70 Fl    Wood processing .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . Nov. 13, 1952   1955-1970   43/4% /
Bank of Finland                    112 FL     Power and wood processing .  .  .  .  . Mar. 24, 1955   1958-1970   45/8 %
Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy       142 Fl    Electric power development .  .  .  .  .  May 22, 1956   1959-1976   43/4 %
TOTA1
FRANCE (Guarantor)
Credit National                      I FR     Post-war reconstruction .  .  .  .  .  .  May 9, 1947   1952-1977   41/4%
Overseas Railways Administration    100 FR    Railway improvement  .  .  .  .  .  . June 10, 1954   1956-1966   41/2%
Electricite et Gaz d'Algerie      131 FR      Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Aug. 26, 1955   1957-1975   43/4%
TOTAl
GUATEMALA                            124 GU    Highway construction and maintenance  . July 29, 1955   1959-1970   45Ys%
HAITI                                141 HA    Highway maintenance   .  .  .  .  .  .  May 7, 1956   1959-1967   41/2%
HONDURAS                             135 HO    Highway maintenance   .  .  .  .  .  . Dec. 22, 1955   1957-1964   4%/2
ICELAND                               46 IC     Electric power development .  .  .  .  . June 20, 1951   1956-1973   43/8g
53 IC     Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Nov. 1, 1951   1956-1973   41/2%
69 IC     Fertilizer plant.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 26, 1952   1954-1969   43/4%
ICELAND (Guarantor)
Iceland Bank of Development        79 IC      Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Sept. 4, 1953   1958-1975       5%
Iceland Bank of Development        80 IC      Construction of radio transmitter building. Sept. 4, 1953   1954-1966   43/4 %
TOTAI
*30-



EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
Effective loatns sold       Effective                 Undisbiursed
Originial   Loans     Cancellations    Principal   or agreed to be sold'         loans        Principal   balanzce of
principal    not yet      ant/     repayments                                   held by        amount      effective
amount    effective2    refundings  to Bank      Total sales  Portion matured,   Bank        disbursed      loans
$   5,000,000  S    -    $      74,559  $ 2,500,000  $  2,000,000 $ 2,000,000   $    425,441   $  4,925,441  $    -
5,000,000      -           -            -          3,000,000      -            2,000,000      5,000,000       -
3,530,000      -           -            234,000      148,000     148,000       3,148,000      3,530,000       -
4,500,000      -           -            -             -           -            4,500,000       1,737,752    2,762,248
2,600,000      -           -            202,000      194,000      194,000      2,204,000      2,600,000       -
2,400,000      -           -            135,200       84,800      84,800       2,180,000      2,400,000       -
15,900,000      -           -            -            866,000      -           15,034,000        -          15,900,000
111,280,000    16,500,000    74,559     7,290,200    7,092,800    3,226,800     80,322,441     60,252,914    34,452,527
40,000,000      -           -            599,000     2,821,000    1,586,000    36,580,000     40,000,000       -
8,500,000      -                        -            -            -            8,500,000      1,917,997    6,582,003
5,000,000    5,000,000                  -Note 3                                                 -             -
13,500,000    5,000,000     -             =           -            -            8,500,000      1,917,997    6,582,003
11,100,000      -                        -            250,000      -           10,850,000      3,819,740    7,280,260
12,545,000      -           -             25,000    1,000,000     420,000      11,520,000     12,545,000      -
23,645,000                                25,000     1,250,000    420,000      22,370,000     16,364,740    7,280,260
5,000,000      -                        118,000       -           -            4,882,000      5,000,000      -
2,000.000      -           -             47,000       -           -            1,953,000      1,420,837      579,163
1,500,000      -                         35,000      -                         1,465,000      1,093,980      406,020
8,500,000      -                        200,000       -           -            8,300,000      7,514,817      985,183
2,300,000      -           197,869    2,102.131       -           -              -            2,102,131      -
12,500,000      -           -          1,967,990    1,559,010    1,559,010      8,973,000     12,500,000      -
20,000,000      -           -          2,436,000       -           -           17,564,000     19,676,993      323,007
3,479,464      -           -            163,535      -            -            3,315,929      2,940,949      538,515
12,000,000      -           -            -          2,288,000      -            9,712,000      6,565,732    5,434,268
15,000,000    15,000,000    -            -         Note3           -              -
65,279,464    15,000,000    197,869    6,669,656    3,847,010    1,559,010     39,564,929     43,785,805    6,295,790
250,000,000      -           -             38,000    30,342,000   11,555,000   219,620,000    250,000,000       -
7,500,000      -           -            -            609,000      -            6,891,000      5,880,243     1,619,757
10,000,000      -                        -            724,000      -            9,276,000      6,419,530    3,580,470
267,500,000      -                         38,000    31,675,000   11,555,000   235,787,000    262,299,773    5,200,227
18,200,000      -           -                         576,000      -           17,624,000      4,840,342    13,359,658
2,600,000    2,600,000     -            -         Note3                          -                           -
4,200,000      -           -            -            872,000                   3,328,000         70,489    4,129,511
2,450,000      -           -             47,600      -            -            2,402,400      2,450,000      -
1,008,000      -           -            -            -           -             1,008,000      1,008,000      -
854,000      -           -             82,000       -           -              772,000        854,000       -
1,350,000      -                 -      _            -            _            1,350,000      1,350,000      -
252,000      -           -             32,760       -           -              219,240        252,000       -
5,914,000      -           -            162,360      -            -            5,751,640      5,914,000      -
-31.



STATEMENT OF LOANS (continued)
Inlerest
Irate
Loan                                                  Date of        Original - (ilncluding
Borrower and gtarantor1       numllnber-             Progranm or project           loan agreement    maturities commissioni
INDIA                                 17 IN     Railway rehabilitation   .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 18, 1949   1950-1964     4%.
19 IN     Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Sept. 29, 1949   1952-1956   33/2,%
23 IN     Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Apr. 18, 1950   1955-1970      4%o
72 IN     Damodar multi-purpose project   .         Jan. 23, 1953   1956-1977   47/8 %
INDIA (Guarantor)
Indian Iron & Steel Company         71 IN     Iron and steel expansion .  .  .  .  .  . Dec. 18, 1952   1959-1967   43/4%
Tata Group of Hydro Companies    106 IN       Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Nov. 19, 1954   1958-1974   43/4 %
I. C. I. C. 1.                     109 IN     Development of private industry   .  .  . Mar. 14, 1955   1960-1969   45/80G
The Tata Iron and Steel Co., Ltd.   146 IN    Expansion of steel production facilities.  June 26, 1956   1959-1971   43/4%
TOTAL
IRAQ                                  26 IRQ    Construction of a flood control project   . June 15, 1950   1956-1965   33/4%
ITALY (Guarantor)
Cassa per I1 Mezzogiorno           50 IT      Development Plan for Southern Italy  .  .  Oct. 10, 1951   1956-1976   41/2 %
Cassa per I] Mezzogiorno           88 IT      Development Plan for Southern Italy  .  .  Oct. 6, 1953   1958-1978     5%
Cassa per Il Mezzogiorno           117 IT     Power, irrigation and industrial projects  . June 1, 1955   1958-1975   43/4%
TOTAL
JAPAN (Guarantor)
Japan Development Bank              89 JA     Electric power development .  .  .  .  .  Oct. 15, 1953   1957-1973     5%
Japan Development Bank             90 JA      Electric power development .  .  .  .  .  Oct. 15, 1953   1957-1973     5%
Japan Development Bank             91 JA      Electric power development .  .  .  .  .  Oct. 15, 1953   1957-1973     5%
Japan Development Bank             133 JA     Construction of steel plate mill .  .  .  .  Oct. 25, 1955   1958-1970   45/s%
Japan Development Bank             136 JA     Industrial projects   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Feb. 21, 1956   1958-1971   43/4 %
TOTAL
LEBANON (Guiarantor)
Litani River Authority            129 LE      Electric power development; irrigation   . Aug. 25, 1955   1961-1980   434%
LUXEMBOURG                            4 LU    Steel mill and railroads  .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 28, 1947   1949-1972   41/4¼0%
MEXICO (Guarantor)
Financiera and Comision            12 ME    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Jan.  6, 1949   1953-1973   41Y2%
Financiera and Comision             13 ME    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Jan.  6, 1949 July 1, 1950   41/2%o
Mexlight                           24 ME    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Apr. 28, 1950   1953-1975   41/2%
Bank Consortium & Financiera       33 ME    Development of small industrial projects .  Oct. 18, 1950   1952-1957   31/2%
Financiera and Comision            56 ME    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Jan. 11, 1952   1955-1977   41/2½%/
Ferrocarril Del Pacifico           103 ME    Railway rehabilitation   .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 24, 1954   1959-1969   45/8%.
TOTAL
NETHERLANDS                            2 NE    Post-war reconstruction .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 7, 1947   1954-1972   4¼%4
2a NE    Post-war reconstruction .  .  .  .  .  .  May 25, 1948   1953-1954   4¼'h %
NETHERLANDS (Guarantor)
Stoomvaart Mij. "Nederland"      7, 7a NE    Purchase of S.S. Raki and S.S. Roebiah  . July 15, 1948   1949-1958  3-9/16%
Vereenigde Schvrt. Mij.              8 NE    Purchase of S.S. Almkerk   .  .  .  .  . July 15, 1948   1949-1958  3-9/16%
Holland-Amerika Lijn                9 NE    Purchase of S.S. Alblasserdijk  .  .  .  . July 15, 1948   1949-1958  3-9/16%
Rotterdamsche Lloyd            10, 10a NE    Purchase of S.S. Friesland and S.S. Drente . July 15, 1948   1949-1958  3-9/16%
Herstelbank                         15 NE    Post-war industrial reconstruction  .  .  . July 26, 1949   1952-1964    4%
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines           59 NE    Purchase of aircraft .  .  .  .  .  .  . Mar. 20, 1952   1954-1958   41/8 %
TOTAL
*32-



EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
Effective loans sold      Effective                  Undisbursed
Original   Loans     Cancellations    Prinzcipal  or agreed to be sold3       loans         Principa     balance of
priicipal    niot vet    and       repayments                                 lleld by       amount       effective
amount    effective2    refundings    to Bank   Total sales  Portioni matvured4  Batik      disbursed     loans
S 34,000,000 $    -       $  1,200,000 $  5,775,816 $ 11,646,536 $ 5,564,302   $  15,377,648   $ 32,800,000 $    -
10,000,000      -         2,796,187    2,263,000    4,940,813    4,350,000       -            7,203,813      -
18,500,000      -         1,779,500     958,000    2,427,000     315,000      13,335,500     16,720,500      -
19,500,000      -         9,000,000      -            -           -           10,500,000      6,066,280    4,433,720
31,500,000      -           -                         -           -           31,500,000      8,245,297   23,254,703
16,200,000      -           -            -          1,364,000     -           14,836,000      6,460,950    9,739,050
10,000,000      -           -            -            -           -           10,000,000        -         10,000,000
75,000,000    75,000,000    -            -          Note3         -              -              -
214,700,000    75,000,000   14,775,687  8,996,816    20,378,349   10,229,302   95,549,148     77,496,840   47,427,473
12,800,000      -         6,506,054    6,293,946      -           -              -            6,293,946      -
10,000,000      -           -            -           251,000      -            9,749,000     10,000,000      -
10,000,000      -           -            -            -           -           10,000,000     10,000,000      -
70,000,000    10,144,000    -            -          6,000,000     -           53,856,000     20,790,969    39,065,031
90,000,000    10,144,000    -            -          6,251,000     -           73,605,000     40,790,969    39,065,031
21,500,000      -           -            -          3,244,288     -           18,255,712     19,717,953    1,782,047
11,200,000      -          510,000       -          1,653,591     -            9,036,409     10,284,979     405,021
7,500,000      -           -            -          1,245,000     -            6,255,000      6,321,723    1,178,277
5,300,000      -          100,000       -           791,000      -            4,409,000      1,509,105    3,690,895
8,100,000      -           -            -          1,076,000     -            7,024,000        950,573    7,149,427
53,600,000      -          610.000       -          8,009,879     -           44,980,121     38,784,333    14,205,667
27,000,000      -           -            -            -           -           27,000,000        -         27,000,000
12,000,000      -          238,017      382,983    2,704,000    1,722,000      8,675,000     11,761,983      -
24,100,000      -           -          1,766,700    3,968,300    1,135,300    18,365,000     24,100,000      -
10,000,000      -        10,000,000 (Refunding)       -           -              -              -            -
26,000,000      -           -          1,629,000      756,000     606,000     23,615,000     26,000,000      -
10,000,000      -         9,472,112     442,398       -           -              85,490         527,888      -
29,700,000      -           -           235,000    2,868,000      200,000     26,597,000     22,633,392    7,066,608
61,000,000      -           -            -          3,976,000     -           57,024,000     40,000,713    20,999,287
160,800,000      -        19,472,112    4,073,098    11,568,300    1,941,300  125,686,490    113,261,993    28,065,895
191,044,212      -           -        103,289,212   25,845,000    7,186,000    61,910,000    191,044,212      -
3,955,788      -           -            -          3,955,788    3,955,788       -            3,955,788      -
4,000,000      -           -            -          4,000,000    4,000,000       -            4,000,000      -
2,000,000      -           -            -          2,000,000    2,000,000       -            2,000,000      -
2,000,000      -           -            -          2,000,000    2,000,000       -            2,000,000      -
4,000,000      -           -            -          4,000,000    4,000,000       -            4,000,000      -
15,000,000      -         7,548,015     777,589     3,534,411    2,797,411     3,139,985      7,451,985      -
7,000,000      -           -          3,500,000    3,500,000    3,500,000       -            7,000,000      -
229,000,000      -         7,548,015   107,566,801    48,835,199   29,439,199  65,049,985    221,451,985      -
.33.



STATEMENT OF LOANS (continued)
Interest
Loan                                                   Date of        Original  - (including
Borrower and guarantor'        iumber                 Program or project            loan agreement    maturities comtnission)
NICARAGUA                             45 NI    Highway construction   .  .  .  .  .  . June 7, 1951   1954-1961   41/8%
52 NI    Construction of grain storage facilities .  . Oct. 29, 1951   1954-1962   4 '
81 NI    Highway construction   .  .  .  .  .  . Sept. 4, 1953   1957-1963   43/4%
82 NI    Electric power development . . .           Sept. 4, 1953   1955-1963   43/4%
NICARAGUA (Guarantor)
Banco Nacional de Nicaragua         44 NI    Agricultural development . . .              June 7, 1951   1954-1958       4%So
Emp. Nal. Luz y Fuerza             121 NI    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . July  8, 1955   1958-1975   43/4%
Instituto de Fomento Nacional      122 NI    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . July  8, 1955   1958-1975   43/4%6o
Instituto de Fomento Nacional      130 NI    Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 26, 1955   1957-1967   41/4¼%0
Autoridad Portuario de Corinto     143 NI    Port construction and development           May 22, 1956   1959-1976   43/4%O
TOTAL
NORWAY                                97 NO    General development   .  .  .  .  .  . Apr. 8, 1954   1957-1974   43/4%
115 NO    General development   .  .  .  .  .  .  Apr. 19, 1955   1960-1975   43/4%
138 NO    Electric power development .  .  .  .  .  May  3, 1956   1961-1976   43/40
TOTAL
PAKISTAN                              60 PAK   Railway rehabilitation   .  .  .  .  .  . Mar. 27, 1952   1954-1967   4 /Y8
62 PAK   Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . June 13, 1952   1954-1959   41/s%
PAKISTAN (Guarantor)
Sui Gas Transmission Co.            99 PAK   Natural gas pipeline .  .  .  .  .  .  . June  2, 1954   1956-1974   4¾3/4
Karachi Electric Supply Corp.      120 PAK   Electric power development .  .  .  .  . June 20, 1955   1957-1970   45/8%
Karnaphuli Paper Mills, Ltd.       125 PAK   Construction of paper and pulp mill  .  . Aug. 4, 1955   1956-1970   45Y8s%
Trustees of the Port of Karachi    126 PAK   Port construction and development   .  . Aug. 4, 1955   1960-1980   43/4%
TOTAL
PANAMA                               123 PAN   Highway rehabilitation  .  .  .  .  .  . July 12, 1955   1959-1964   4114%
PANAMA (Guarantor)
Instituto de Fomento Economico      86 PAN   Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Sept. 25, 1953   1955-1960   45/Ys%
Instituto de Fomento Economico      87 PAN   Construction of grain storage facilities .  . Sept. 25, 1953   1955-1961   4 /s %
TOTAL
PARAGUAY                              55 PA      Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Dec. 7, 1951   1954-1960   43/8%
PERU                                  57 PE      Port development .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . Jan. 23, 1952   1954-1967   41/2%
67 PE     Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . July  8, 1952   1954-1959   4148%
98 PE     Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  .  Apr. 12, 1954   1956-1961   41/4%
114 PE     Irrigation project .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Apr. 5, 1955   1959-1980   43/4%
127 PE     Highway maintenance   .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 5, 1955   1958-1964   41/4 %
PERU (Guarantor)
Banco de Fomento Agropecuario    105 PE       Agricultural development  .  .  .  .  . Nov. 12, 1954   1957-1963   41/4%
Cemento Pacasmayo                  116 PE     Construction of cement plant  .  .  .  .  Apr. 19, 1955   1958-1970   45Y%
TOTAL
SOUTH AFRICA                          40 SA      Expansion of transport facilities.  .  .  . Jan. 23, 1951   1956-1965   33/4%
77 SA     Expansion of transport facilities.  .  .  . Aug. 28, 1953   1955-1963   43/4%
134 SA     Expansion of transport facilities.  .  .  . Nov. 28, 1955   1958-1966   41/2%
SOUTH AFRICA (Guarantor)
Electricity Supply Commission       41 SA     Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Jan. 23, 1951   1954-1970       4%
Electricity Supply Commission       78 SA     Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Aug. 28, 1953   1955-1963   43/4%
TOTAL
.34-



EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
Effective loans sold       Effective                 Undisbiirsed
Original    Loans     Cancellations    Principal   or agreed to be sold'        loans        Principal   balaunce of
principal    not yef     and       repayments                                   held by       amount      effective
amount    effective2    refundings    to Bank   Total sales  Portion mnatured4  Bank        disbursed      loans
$  3,500,000 $     -      $    -      $    764,000 $     29,000 $    29,000   $  2,707,000   $  2,804,049 $    695,951
550,000      -             3,006       88,994       29,000      29,000        429,000        546,994       -
3,500,000                  -            -            -           -            3,500,000      1,959,378    1,540,622
450,000      -           -             62,000      -           -              388,000        450,000       -
1,200,000      -            6,879      756,121       29,000      29,000        408.000       1,193.121      -
7,100,000      -           -            -           724,000      -            6,376,000        883,489    6,216,511
400,000      -           -            -            -           -              400,000          1,710      398,290
1,500,000      -           -            -           735,000      -              765,000        216,306    1,283,694
3,200,000    3,200,000     -            -          Note3         -              -              -
21,400,000    3,200,000      9,885     1,671,115    1,546,000      87,000     14,973,000      8,055,047    10,135,068
25,000,000      -           -            -          2,016,000     -           22,984,000     25,000,000
25,000,000      -           -            -          2             -           25,000,000     25,000,000      -
25,000,000      -           -            -            -                       25,000,000        -         25,000,000
75,000,000      -           -            -          2,016,000     -           72,984,000     50,000,000    25,000,000
27,200,000      -           -          2,473,400     935,600      735,600     23,791,000     15,589,815    11,610,185
3,250,000      -           -           262,000      997,000     997,000       1,991,000      2,848,182      401,818
14,000,000      -           -            -          1,806,000     -           12,194,000     14,000,000      -
13,800,000      -           -            -          2,049,600     -           11,750,400      9,606,565    4,193,435
4,200,000      -           -            -           775,000      -            3,425,000      4,200,000      -
14,800,000      -           -            -           216,842      -           14,583,158      1,398,362    13,401,638
77,250,000                  -          2,735,400    6,780,042    1,732,600    67,734,558     47,642,924    29,607,076
5,900,000      -           -            -          1,700,000     -            4,200,000      1,489,288    4,410,712
1,200,000      -          542,574      164,000       -           -             493,426        407,426       250,000
290,000      -                         43,000      -           -              247,000        290,000       -
7,390,000      -          542,574      207,000     1,700,000     -            4,940,426      2,186,714    4,660,712
5,000,000      -           -           400,000       100,000     100,000      4,500,000      2,680,361    2,319,639
2,500,000      -           -            146,000     605,000      211,000      1,749,000      2,246,812      253,188
1,300,000      -           -           275,250      439,250     163,750        585,500       1,300,000      -
1,700,000      -           -            -           392,000      -            1,308,000      1,619,741       80,259
18,000,000      -           -            -           496,000      -           17,504,000      7,308,997    10,691,003
5,000,000      -           -            -           683,000      -            4,317,000      1,578,852    3,421,148
5,000,000      -           -            -           748,000      -            4,252,000      1,732,624    3,267,376
2,500,000      -           -            -           310,000      -            2,190,000      1,157,748     1,342,252
36,000,000      -           -           421,250     3,673,250     374,750     31,905,500     16,944,774    19,055,226
20,000,000      -           -            66,000     1,867,000    934,000      18,067,000     20,000,000      -
30,000,000      -           -           328,000     7,404,000    3,202,000    22,268,000     30,000,000      -
25,200,000      -           -            -            -           -           25,200,000      2,827,837    22,372,163
30,000,000      -           -            15,675     5,450,560    3,234,560    24,533,765     30,000,000      -
30,000,000      -           -            -         10,793,000    2,942,000    19,207,000     30,000,000      -
135,200,000      -           -           409,675    25,514,560   10,312,560    109,275,765   112,827,837    22,372,163
.35.



STATEMENT OF LOANS (continued)
Interest
rate
Loan                                                      Date of        Original  r(ialding
Borrower and guarantor'          number                  Program or project              loan agreement   matiurities commission)
THAILAND                                35 TH      Railway rehabilitation   .  .  .  .  .  . Oct. 27, 1950    1954-1966   3y/4 %
36 TH      Irrigation project .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . Oct. 27, 1950    1956-1971        4%
37 TH      Port construction and development           Oct. 27, 1950    1954-1966   33/4 %
THAILAND (Guarantor)
State Railway of Thailand            128 TH      Railway rehabilitation   .  .  .  .  .  . Aug. 9, 1955    1958-1970   4Ys/%
TOTAL
TURKEY                                  27 TU      Construction of grain storage facilities .  .  July  7, 1950    1954-1968   37 %8
28 TU      Port construction and development   .  . July  7, 1950    1956-1975   41/4¼%
28 TU-S  Port construction and development   .  . Feb. 26, 1954    1956-1975   4 /8%
63 TU      Seyhan Dam multi-purpose project   .  .  June 18, 1952    1957-1977   43/4%
TURKEY (Guarantor)
Industrial Development Bank           34 TU      Development of private industry   .  .  . Oct. 19, 1950    1957-1965   33/4%7o
Industrial Development Bank           85 TU      Development of private industry   .  .  . Sept. 10, 1953    1958-1968   4 /V8
TOTAL
UNITED KINGDOM (Guarantor)
Southern Rhodesia                     58 SR      Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Feb. 27, 1952   1956-1977   43/4%70
Northern Rhodesia                     74 NR    Railway development   .  .  .  .  .  . Mar. 11, 1953    1956-1972   4¾3/4%,
East Africa High Commission          110 EA      Railways and harbors   .  .  .  .  .  . Mar. 15, 1955    1958-1974   43/4%
Federal Power Board-
Rhodesia and Nyasaland            145 RN      Electric power development .  .  .  .  . June 21, 1956    1963-1981          5%70
TOTAL
URUGUAY (Guarantor)
U. T. E.                              30 UR    Power and telephone development .  .  . Aug. 25, 1950    1955-1974   41/4c¼o
U. T. E.                             132 UR    Electric power development .  .  .  .  . Aug. 29, 1955    1958-1975   43/4%0
TOTAL
YUGOSLAVIA                              20 YU      Equipment for timber production  .  .  .  Oct. 17, 1949    1950-1951        3%
51 YU'   Power, mining, transport, industrial,         Oct. 11, 1951    1955-1976   4 1/2 O
73 YUJ       agricultural and forestry projects    .  .  Feb. 11, 1953    1956-1978   47/ s 
TOTAL
GRAND TOTALS
NOTES:
I Loans made (a) to the member or (b) to a political subdivision or a public or private enterprise in the territories oJf the member with the member's
guarantee.
2 Agreements providing for these loans have been signed, but the loans do not become effective and disbursements thereunder do not start until the
borrower and guarantor, if any, take certain action and furnish certain documents to the Bank.
3 The Bank has entered into agreements to sell the below listed portions of loans which are not yet effective:
Loan                                        Principal amount agreed to be sold
137EC ... $197,000
141 HA ....                                                        413,000
142FI ...                                                          280,000
143 NI ...                                                         121,000
145 RN ... .                                                      5,000,000
146 IN.2,355,000
Total                                                  $8,366,000
*36



EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
Effective loans sold      Effective               Undisbursed
Original   Loans     Cancellations   Principal   or agreed to be sold-       loans         Principal  balance of
principal    not yet     and      repayments                                 held br,       amount   effective
anmountt   effective2    refaundings    to Bank  Total sales  Portion matutred'  Bank     disbursed    loaivs
$  3,000,000 $    -      $   -       $    306,000 $    189,000 $   189,000   S  2,505,000   $  3,000,000 $    -
18,000,000     -           -           425,000      796,000     -           16,779,000     18,000,000
4,4d0,000     -           -           450,000      275,000     275,000      3,675,000     4,400,000      -
12,000,000     -           -            -         1,105,000     -           10,895,000       929,254   11,070,746
37,400,000     -           -          1,181,000    2,365,000    464,000     33,854,000    26,329,254   11,070,746
3,900,000     -           -           361,000      144,000     144,000      3,395,000      3,337,853     562,147
12,500,000     -           -           201,000      -           -           12,299,000    11,435,412    1,064,588
3,800,000     -           -            57,000       _          _            3,743,000        57,000    3,743,000
25,200,000     -         2,356,000      -           -           -           22,844,000     19,846,047    2,997,953
9,000,000     -           -            -           -           -            9,000,000      7,940,012    1,059,988
9,000,000     -           -            -           -           -            9,000,000      4,854,701    4,145,299
63,400,000     -         2,356,000     619,000      144,000     144,000     60,281,000    47,471,025   13,572,975
28,000,000     -           -            -          5,567,000    -           22,433,000     28,000,000     -
14,000,000     -           -            -         3,004,347    284,000      10,995,653    14,000,000      -
24,000,000     -           -            -         7,973,000     -           16,027,000     22,933,327    1,066,673
80,000,000   80,000,000    -            -          Note 3       -              -              -
146,000,000   80,000,000    -            -        16,544,347    284,000      49,455,653    64,933,327    1,066,673
33,000,000     -           -          2,175,000    2,150,000    300,000     28,675,000    33,000,000      -
5,500,000     -           -            -           654,000     -            4,846,000      1,740,640    3,759.360
38,500,000     -           -          2,175,000    2,804,000    300,000     33,521,000     34,740,640    3,759,360
2,700,000     -           -          2,700,000     -           -              -           2,700,000      -
28,000,000     -           -          1,163,000     -           -           26,837,000     27,434,286     565,714
30,000,000     -           =            -           -           -           30,000,000    27,287,014    2,712,986
60,700,000     -           -          3,863,000     -           -           56,837,000     57,421,300    3,278,700
$2,720,108,464 $ 226,794,000 $ 52,776,316 S 164,346,672 $ 267,796,381 $ 85,748,054  $2,008,395,095  S1,963,654,821 $ 476,883,327
Less exchange adjustment         6,587,648
$2,001,807,447
4 This includes amounts which, according to information available to the Bank, have been prepaid prior to maturity.
.37.



COU  TRY-B   COUi [77RY SUMMARY
OF BAN~K OpERATIONS195D 1956
This Summary contains a country-by-country description of the operations of
the Bank in the past fiscal year. For each country in which the Bank was active,
information is given on one or more of the following topics: loans made; nego-
tiations and surveys looking to possible loans; general survey missions and
other kinds of advisory services. Loans that were made to borrowers other
than member governments have the guarantee of the member governments
concerned; the guarantee arrangements have only been mentioned in cases
where there is more than one guarantor. The interest rates shown include the
1% commission which, under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allocated
to the Bank's Special Reserve. The section on each region is accompanied by
tables showing loans made. The loan amounts in the tables are expressed in
United States dollars and are net of cancellations and refundings.
Descriptions of the projects for which loans were made in previous fiscal years
may be found in the Annual Reports covering the fiscal years during which the
loans were made.
*38-



A F R I C A
LOANS DURING FISCAL YEAR               a transmission network throughout the populous
coastal area of Algeria. The program will enable
Couintry                  No.            Anount
-_______________ _   _-  the company to keep pace with Algeria's growing
Algeria                    1         S 10,000,000  demand for electricity, particularly in the main urban
Rhodesia & Nyasaland        1          80,000,000
South Africa                1          25,200,000  centers of population and industry, Oran, Algiers
and Bone.
3         115,200,000  PARTICIPATION * $724,000 maturing 1957 through
1960, by Societe Generale pour favoriser le Developpe-
TOTAL LOANS 1947-1956               ment du Commerce et de l'Industrie en France,
Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N. V., and
Algeria                     1          10,000,000                                   '
Belgian Congo               1          40,000,000  Banque Lambert, Brussels.
East Africa                 1          24,000,000
Ethiopia                    3           8,500,000
French West Africa          1           7,500,000                  ETHIOPIA
Rhodesia & Nyasaland        3         122,000,000
South Africa               5          135,200,000
-____  -________________________________   ETHIOPIAN   DEVELOPMENT  BANK
Lending in Africa-                                  During the year the Bank approved two projects
15 loans in 7 countries totaling  $347,200,000  being financed by the Ethiopian Development Bank-
the construction of a mosaic tile plant and of a modern
bakery. The projects called for foreign exchange
ALGERIA                          expenditures of $128,000 from the Bank's loan of
$2 million, made in 1950 to provide the Development
ELECTRIC POWER LOAN                  Bank with foreign exchange. By the end of the fiscal
0 million 20-year 43/40Gloan of August 26,1955  year, the Bank had approved projects requiring a
BORROWVER * Electricite et Gaz d'Algerie          total of $1.5 million from its loan. The coffee credit
GUARANTORS * France and Algeria                   program, started by the Development Bank in 1953
PURPOSE * The execution of a five-year program for  with the assistance of the International Bank, progress-
the expansion of generating, transmission and dis-  ed well during the year. By the end of December 1955,
tribution facilities in Algeria.                  the Development Bank had lent about Eth.$840,000
Under the program, Electricite et Gaz d'Alg6rie will  (U.S.$350,000) for the development of coffee pro-
increase its production of power by about one-quarter,  duction. In 1956, a modern coffee-processing plant,
from about 800 million kilowatt hours in 1955 to over  financed by the Development Bank, was completed
one billion kilowatt hours in 1959, and will complete  near Jimma, the center of an important coffee-
important links in the high-voltage transmission  producing area.
network. The total cost of the part of the program               OTHER ACTIVITIES
that the Bank is helping to finance is estimated at the  The Bank assisted the Imperial Board of Telecom-
equivalent of $78 million. The Bank's loan is being  munications in selecting a new General Manager.
used to reimburse the company for part of its ex-  The Board is carrying out a rehabilitation and
.penditures on the program, and work has been  extension program with the help of a $1.5 million
proceeding on schedule.                           Bank loan made in February 1951.
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Since 1947, Electricite et Gaz    Ethiopia has requested loans to develop the Port
d'Algerie has been building new power stations and  of Assab and further to improve the highway system.
*39-



The Bank will send missions to Ethiopia early in the  of the first stage is estimated to be equivalent to about
new fiscal year to study the economy of Ethiopia and  £80 million ($225 million). The Bank's loan will
to examine these projects.                      finance £28.6 million ($80 million) of this amount;
the Federal Power Board will finance the remainder
G 0 L D C O A S T                 by long-term borrowings from two British Institutions,
Representatives from the Gold Coast visited the Bank  the Colonial Development Corporation (£15 million),
in May and again in June 1956 to inform the Bank of  the Commonwealth Development Finance Co. Ltd.
the results of the study that has been going on for  (£3 million), and from  the Government of the
several years on the proposed Volta River project.  Federation (up to £34 million). The Government will
The project is an integrated scheme for producing  obtain £28 million of its share from local borrowings:
aluminum. It contemplates mining bauxite, processing  copper mining companies of the Selection Trust and
it to produce alumina, and then electrically smelting  Anglo-American groups will lend the Federation
the alumina using power generated by harnessing the  £20 million; the British South Africa Company, £4
Volta River. A port and railway would be included  million; and Barclays Bank D.C.O. and the Standard
in the project.                                 Bank of South Africa £2 million each. This is the
Bank's largest loan in Africa and the largest it has ever
made for a single project. The loan will be made in
RHODESIA  AND  NYASALAND                    United States dollars, pounds sterling and various
other European currencies.
ELECTRIC POWER LOAN                 ECONOMIC BENEFITS * The Federation came into
$80 million 25-year 5% loan of June 21, 1956  existence nearly three years ago and comprises
BORROWER * Federal Power Board, a public corpora-  Northern Rhodesia, Southern Rhodesia and Nyasa-
tion set up in 1956 and responsible for building and  land. Economic growth in the area has been unusually
operating the Kariba power project.             rapid in recent years; real output has increased at the
GUARANTORS * The United Kingdom and the Fed-  rate of 10%c annually-one of the fastest in the world.
eration of Rhodesia and Nyasaland               The upsurge of private economic activity has put an
PURPOSE * The execution of the Kariba hydroelectric  increasing strain on basic services, particularly trans-
power scheme, which will ultimately generate and  portation and electric power. Mining and industry
transmit 1,200,000 kilowatts of power to consuming  now consume 771%  of the power produced in the
centers throughout the Federation.              Federation, and an expanding power supply is
The loan is helping to finance the first stage of the  essential to their continued growth. It is estimated
scheme; this includes the construction of an arch dam  that the power demand in the Federation will require
at Kariba Gorge on the Zambezi River, one power-  the addition of about 600,000 kilowatts by 1965 and
house with five generating units having a total  about 1,100,000 kilowatts by 1972. In the past,
capacity of 500,000 kilowatts, and nearly 1,000 miles  demands for power have been met by adding to
of transmission lines to the copper belt in Northern  thermal electric capacity. Because of the greatly in-
Rhodesia and the principal cities of Southern Rho-  creasing demand for power, the Government decided
desia. The Federal Power Board has retained an  to turn to the development of hydroelectric power
international group of engineers to plan and supervise  through the Kariba scheme. Hydroelectric power will
construction of the project. Preliminary works are  be less costly than that produced by additional
already under construction and power is expected to  thermal plants; it will also eliminate sole dependence
begin to flow from the project by 1960. The first stage  on one mine which supplies coal for thermal power,
is expected to reach its full potential of nearly four  and on a single-track railroad over which coal has to
billion kilowatt hours per year by 1963. The total cost  be transported long distances to the power plants.
.40.



B7f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Rhodesia and Nyasaland  One of the wotrld's largest  high and a mile wide at the top. Two unlderground power-
hydroelectric projects is being built across the Kariba Gorge  houises will eventually hold tuwelve 100,000-kilowatt gen-
of the Zanibezi River. The arch-type damz will be 400 feet  erators, of whichi five will be installed in the first phase.
RUANDA-URUNDI                                        SOUTH AFRICA
At the request of the Belgian Government, a Bank                   TRANSPORT LOAN
mission visited the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi
in November and December 1955 to study economic             £9 million ($25.2 million) 10-year 41/2%
loan of November 28, 1955
conditins and examine the Territory's Ten Year
Development Plan. Subsequently the Bank offered to  BORROWER * South Africa
assist the Territory in the current revision of its  JOINT FINANCING * The Bank's loan was made simul-
Development Plan, and a mission is expected to go  taneously with a $25 million issue of South African
to Ruanda-Urundi for this purpose in August.       bonds offered to the public by an underwriting group
of United States investment firms and banks headed
SOMALILAND                          by Dillon, Read & Co., Inc.
At the request of the Italian Government, a Bank  PURPOSE - Improvements to the services of the South
survey mission visited the Trust Territory of Somali-  African Railways and Harbours Administration.
land curing March-April 1956. The purpose of the    The rapid growth of the South African economy
mission was to study the existing situation and  since World War II, mainly in mining and industries
possibilities for development in the light of the  involving large amounts of railroad freight, has
approaching termination of the Trusteeship in 1960.  necessitated continuous expansion of the railway
The mission's report is now being prepared.        system. An expansion program was started in 1947,
-41.



and two previous Bank loans, totaling $50 million,  improvements of the permanent way and is purchasing
helped to finance earlier phases of it. The proceeds of  additional locomotives, freight cars and passenger
this year's loan and of the bond issue are being  coaches to increase the carrying capacity of the
applied to expenditures on the program during the  railways. Total capital expenditures during the three-
three years from April 1955 to March 1958. During  year period will be equivalent to over $500 million,
this period the Administration is making extensive  of which more than a fourth will be spent overseas.
ASTA AND TEE MPDDLE EAST
LOANS DURtNG FISCAL YEAR                of Rangoon, and the purchase of floating equipment
Country              No.                 Amouint   such as dredges and tugs for harbor operations.
Burma                 2               S 19,350,000    The total cost is estimated at the equivalent of
India                 1                 75,000,000  $19.3 million. The Bank's loan will finance the
Japan                2                  13,300,000
Lebanon               1                 27',00,000  necessary imported equipment, materials and services.
Pakistan             2                  19,000,000  ECONOMIC BENEFITS * The Port of Rangoon is
Thailand              1                 12,000,000  Burma's chief port and handles four-fifths of the
9                165,650,000  country's foreign trade. Installations at the port were
almost completely destroyed during World War II
TOTAL LOANS 1947-1956                and, although partial rehabilitation was subsequently
undertaken, further restoration and improvement are
Burma                2                  19,350,000  essential to handle increasing trade. The project will
Ceylon                1                 19,110,000
India                 8                199,924,313  increase the capacity of the port, facilitate the move-
Iraq                  1                  6,293,946  ment of freight, and shorten the turn-around time
Japan                 5                 53,500,000  of vessels.
Lebanon               1                 27,000,000
Pakistan             6                  77,250,000                  RAILWAY LOAN
Thailand             4                  37,400,000       S5.35 million 15-year 43/4¾% loan of May 4, 1956
Lending in Asia-                                   BORROWER * Burma
28 loans in 8 countries totaling    $439,828,259  PURPOSE * The execution of a rehabilitation and
development program being carried out by the Burma
Railways to improve efficiency and service, especially
AFGHANISTAN                          in the movement of rice, timber and minerals destined
At the end of the fiscal year, the Bank was arranging  for export.
to send to Afghanistan a fact-finding mission which    The railways radiate out of Rangoon to most of the
had been requested by the Government.              main towns in Burma and carry the bulk of the
country's freight and passenger traffic. The railways,
like the Port, were heavily damaged during World
BURMA                           War II. With the gradual elimination of civil disorders,
PORT LOAN                       railway service is being improved and railway installa-
$14 million 20-year 43/4¾% loan of May 4, 1956  tions are being restored. The main needs now are for
BORROWER * The Commissioners for the Port of  additional freight cars to cope with the growing traffic,
Rangoon, a public corporation.                     new passenger coaches to replace obsolete and dam-
PURPOSE * The reconstruction of three general cargo  aged stock, heavier rails on the permanent way, and
berths, with storage and service facilities, at the Port  reconstruction or further repair of a number of
.42-



damaged bridges. All these are provided for under the  of the Tata steel works to 2,000,000 long tons of
program  being carried out during the four years  ingots, or 1,500,000 tons of finished steel.
1955-59. The total cost of the program is estimated at    Expansion and modernization of some parts of the
the equivalent of $35 million. The Bank's loan will  Tata plant were begun in 1951; the Company has now
pay for imported freight cars, diesel railcars and  embarked on a second expansion program  which
bridge construction materials.                   consists of further modernization and additions to
existing plant throughout the whole process of steel
CE Y L ON                      production. Both programs should be virtually com-
The Bank assisted the Government in drawing up  plete by 1958. Total investment for the period April
plans for the establishment of a Development Finance  1955 to March 1960 is expected to be equivalent to
Corporation, which was founded by an act of Parlia-  about $250 million. The Tata Company has engaged
ment in October 1955. A staff member on leave of  the services of foreign companies to design and
absence from the Bank continued to serve as Director  supervise the construction of most of the works
of the Ceylon Institute of Scientific and Industrial  involved in the second expansion program. This
Research.                                        construction is scheduled to be finished by June 1958
and will cost about $130 million; the Bank's loan will
EGYPT                         be disbursed against part of the foreign exchange
Toward the end of 1955, the Bank and representatives  component of that cost.
of the Egyptian Government held discussions in  ECONOMIC BENEFITS - The Tata expansion program
Washington concerning the possible financing of the  is included in the investment foreseen for the private
High Aswan Dam project. These discussions were  sector in India's Second Five-Year Plan. The Plan
joined by the Governments of the United Kingdom   envisages an increase in domestic production of
and the United States, and led to a proposal by the  finished steel from the present level of 11/4 million tons
two Governments and the Bank. Under this proposal,  to about 41/2 million tons a year. The demand for
the Bank was prepared, under certain conditions, to  steel in India already necessitates heavy imports and
consider financing up to $200 million of the foreign  it is expected that growth in other sectors of the
exchange costs of the project; one of these conditions  economy will increase the demand for steel products,
was that the balance of the foreign exchange cost  particularly for railways, industry, power, irrigation
would be available from other sources. At the end  works and other construction. The increased output
of the fiscal year, agreement on the proposal had not  of steel now planned should be absorbed by the
been reached.                                    internal market.
PARTICIPATION * $2,355,000 maturing 1959, by the
IN D IA                       First National City Bank of New York, Irving Trust
Company and the Manufacturers Trust Company.
LOAN FOR IRON AND STEEL PRODUCTION
OTHER ACTIVITIES
$75 million 15-year 43/4%G loan of June 26, 1956  ECONOMIC MISSION * A Bank mission went to India
BORROWER * The Tata Iron and Steel Company,  in April 1956 for a stay of about three months to
limited                                          undertake a comprehensive review of the economic
The Tata Company owns and operates one of the  situation, with particular reference to India's progress
largest integrated steel plants in Asia. The plant is  under the first Five-Year Plan, and to study the Second
located in Jamshedpur and its proximity to ample  Five-Year Plan.
sources of raw materials and electric power enables it  LOAN PROJECT * The Bank has under consideration
to produce steel at costs as low as any in the world.  an application from the Indian Iron and Steel Com-
PURPOSE . To increase the annual productive capacity  pany Ltd., for a loan for the further expansion
.43.



of the company's works at Burnpur. In 1952 the Bank  it will replace. The project is expected to cost the
made a loan of $31.5 million to this company to  equivalent of $15.6 million and is scheduled for
expand its iron and steel production.             completion in 1957.
PARTICIPATION .$791,000 maturing 1958 through
IN D ON E S IA                     1960, by the Manufacturers Trust Company.
The report of the Bank mission which visited Indo-
nesia early in the fiscal year, and a statement of the  S8.1 million 15-year 43%S^. loan of February 21, 1956
management's general views on the country's eco-  BORROWER * Japan Development Bank
nomic and financial problems, was presented to the    The Japan Development Bank is re-lending the
Government in May 1956.                           proceeds of the loan to four companies in the steel,
shipbuilding and automotive industries as follows:
IRAN                          Nippon Steel Tube Co. Ltd., $2,600,000; Mitsubishi
During the year, the Bank continued its assistance to  Shipbuilding and Engineering Co. Ltd., $1,500,000;
Iran's Plan Organization. Under the arrangements  Ishikawajima Heavy Industries Co. Ltd., $1,650,000;
agreed upon last year, the Bank recruited foreign  and Toyota Motor Company Ltd., $2,350,000.
specialists to serve with the Plan Organization. Thus  PURPOSE * The loan is financing the purchase of more
far, specialists in transport, municipal development,  than 100 imported machines and machine tools for
agriculture and industry  have been selected. In  various modernization projects being undertaken by
addition, the Bank gave leave of absence to a member  the four companies. The Nippon company is replacing
of its staff to serve as chief of the Technical Bureau of  two obsolete seamless tube mills with a single modern
the Plan Organization. The President of the Bank  mill of slightly higher capacity. Mitsubishi is re-tooling
visited Iran in June 1956 to discuss the possibility of  both for the regular production of an improved type
Bank participation in financing the Government's  of marine diesel engine and supercharger and for
second Seven-Year Plan for Development; discussions  more economical production of diesel engine parts.
on this matter are continuing.                     Ishikawajima is also re-tooling, for the manufacture
of larger and more powerful marine steam turbines
J A PA N                       and other heavy industrial machinery. Toyota is
modernizing its production of trucks and buses. The
LOANS FOR INDUSTRY                   total cost of the projects will be equivalent to $25.5
$5.2 million (original amount S5.3 million) 15-year 45/8%  million; they will all be complete by the end of 1958.
loan of October 25, 1955            ECONOMIC BENEFITS - Modernization and expansion
BORROWER * Japan Development Bank                  of Japanese heavy industry, including shipbuilding, is
The Japan Development Bank is a government  of basic importance to the economy. These industries
agency established in 1951 to supply long-term credit  not only produce for the domestic market, but are
for industrial development and to act as an instrument  also a principal source of export earnings. Exports
for governmental guarantee of private foreign borrow-  of iron and steel products accounted for more than
ing. The bank is re-lending the proceeds of the  13%, of sales abroad in 1955, while exports of ma-
International Bank loan to the Yawata Iron & Steel  chinery and ships accounted for 12% of all exports..
Co., Ltd., Japan's largest and oldest steel enterprise.  The five companies receiving funds under both loans
PURPOSE . The installation of a modern steel plate  to the Japan Development Bank this year are among
mill at the Yawata Company's plant at the city of  the leading manufacturers in their fields. The projects
Yawata on Kyushu Island. The annual capacity of  they are undertaking will result in more efficient
the new mill, 360,000 tons of plate, will be somewhat  operation, lower production costs, and improvement
greater than the capacity of the three old mills which  in the quality of their products.
*44.



-,                  7
j¢  , 4n q '~~~~.,  
. _. . . .. . . 4.
Japan . he Mitsubishi Shipbuilding and Enlginee, ing Co. loan to Japan of Februco v 1956. Mitsubishi's share, $1.5
Ltd. whose Nagasaki yards ar e slhown above, was one of mnillion, will be utsed to impoirt heavy machine tools for making
four indu Ntrial companies to rceive par t ofl an $8.1 imilhion improved diesel engines, siipel chargers and other machinery.
P4RTICII'ATIO\   SI $1076,000 maturing 1958 through                    JORDAN
1959, by the Chase Manhattan Bank.                  The draft report of the General Survey Mission which
OTHER ACTIVITIES                    visited Jordan in mid-1955 was informally submitted
l.OAN PRSOJECTS *Negotiations are under way for a  to the Government in May 1956. The report contains
Bank loan to finance imported machinery and equip-  a comprehensive analysis of the Jordan economy and
ment for the reclamation of peatlands in the Ishikari  recommendations for future development.
Valley in Central Hokkaido; for a pilot project to
demonstrate the feasibility of large-scale mechanical                 L E B A N 0 N
land reclamation in areas of Hokkaido and Northern
HSonshu; and for the importation of cattle to be used      LOAN FOR POWER AND IRRIGATION
particularly in the reclaimed areas. Meanwhile the        $27 million 25-year 4¾%C loan of August 25, 1955
Japanese Government is carrying out engineering  BORROWER *Litani River Authority
studies of the Aichi irrigation and Hachiro Lagoon    The Litani River Authority was established as an
reclamation projects.                               autonomous government agency to construct, own
The Bank also has under consideration a loan  and operate the Litani River power and irrigation
request from  the Kawasaki Steel Corporation to   works.
finance the installation of a semi-continuous strip  PtURPOSE . To provide Lebanon with 84,000 kilowatts
mill at the company's plant at Chiba near Tokyo.    of additional electric generating capacity and permit
.45.



the irrigation of land along the Mediterranean coast.  century, have deteriorated so much that reconstruction
The project includes the construction of a dam at  is needed to avoid serious interruption in the flow of
Karaoun on the Litani River; a tunnel to bring water  goods to and from West Pakistan. The project being
from the reservoir to the Bisri River; two hydro-  financed will speed up the movement of freight,
electric power plants; and 85 miles of transmission  shorten the turn-around time of vessels, and increase
lines to bring power from the plants to Saida and  the capacity of the port.
Beirut. An irrigation system will be built to use waters  PARTICIPATION * $217,000 payable in Netherlands
from  the Karaoun reservoir. The whole project is  guilders, maturing 1960, by Nederlandsche Handel-
scheduled for completion in 1961 at a total cost which  Maatschappij, N. V.
has been estimated at the equivalent of $40 million.
The Bank's loan will pay for engineering services and          LOAN FOR PAPER MILL
for imported equipment and materials.                  $4.2 million 15-year 45/8% loan of August 4, 1955
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * The project will more than  BORROWER - Karnaphuli Paper Mills Limited
double present generating capacity in Lebanon and    The Karnaphuli Paper Mills Limited was established
will relieve the power shortage which has existed,  in 1952 by the Pakistan Industrial Development
particularly in the Beirut area, for the past ten years.  Corporation as a government-owned institution. In
The coastal strip to be irrigated is now only partly  line with its policy of transferring industrial enter-
cultivated. With irrigation it can be intensively  prises to private hands, the Corporation subsequently
cultivated and devoted to the growing of citrus fruits  sold a majority of the shares to private investors
and bananas-important exports-and vegetables.    in 1954.
PURPOSE * To help finance a paper mill at Chandra-
PAKISTAN                         ghona in East Pakistan. The mill manufactures pulp
and paper from bamboo, and is designed to produce
PORT LOAN                       30,000 tons of writing and wrapping paper annually.
$14.8 million 25-year 43/4%0 loan of August 4, 1955  The plant cost the equivalent of $20 million; the
BORROWER   T The Trustees of the Port of Karachi.   Bank's loan provided about a third of the foreign
The Port Trust is a corporate body vested with the  exchange component.
control and management of the Port of Karachi.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS * In the past, Pakistan has had
The Trustees represent shipping, commercial, indus-  to import all of its paper requirements. The Kar-
trial and governmental interests.                 naphuli plant is meeting present estimated needs for
PURPOSE * The reconstruction and modernization of  the types of paper it produces. The plant has also
cargo berths and handling facilities at Karachi's East  provided a new market for bamboo and given employ-
Wharves.                                          ment to about 3,000 people.
Work is being carried out to replace 13 existing  PARTICIPATION * $775,000 maturing 1956 through
berths, and includes the construction of a concrete  1959, by the Bank of America and the Manufacturers
quay wall, new storage facilities, access roads, railway  Trust Company.
tracks, the provision of portal cranes, and the con-             OTHER ACTIVITIES
struction of workshops and an additional office  RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVES * During the year the
building. The estimated cost of the entire project is  Bank stationed a resident representative in Pakistan
$24.4 million; it is scheduled for completion in 1962.  to maintain close consultation with the Government
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Karachi is the only port of  and other borrowers on matters of mutual interest:
West Pakistan, and the East Wharves handle approxi-  BANK MISSIONS * A Bank mission went to Pakistan
mately 60% of the traffic which passes through the  in April 1956 for about three months to review the
port. The Wharves, built around the turn of the  economic situation and to make a comprehensive
*46-



study of the Five-Year Plan recently drawn up by the                   T H A IL A N D
Planning Board.
Another Bank mission visited Pakistan in April for                  RAILWAY LOAN
discussions with the Government and business corn-         $12 million 15-year 4y8% loan of August 9, 1955
-munity regarding the establishment of an institution   BORROWER * The State Railway of Thailand
to provide and stimulate investment in private indus-  PURPOSE * To assist in the execution of a five-year
try. A  Steering Committee composed of leading  program being carried out by the Railway to improve
Pakistani businessmen is drafting the charter of the  efficiency and handle increasing traffic.
proposed. company.                                     The program  includes both the rehabilitation of
physical properties and the improvement of the
S Y R IA                        Railway's operations, management and administra-
Negotiations were begun in Washington in November  tion. It provides for the renewal of rails on 875 miles
1955 for loans to finance highway construction,  of track; the purchase of diesel locomotives, passenger
equipment for the Port of Latakia, and drainage and  coaches and freight cars; the installation of automatic
irrigationa of the Ghab area in northwestern Syria. In  couplers; the establishment of a modern telecommu-
January  1956 the Syrian negotiators returned  to  nications system, and the construction or improvement
Damascus to present to the Cabinet the draft loan   of bridges, yards and sidings. The total cost of the
documents for all three projects. The Bank was later  program is estimated at the equivalent of $60 million;
informed that the Cabinet would postpone its decision  the  Bank's loan  will meet part of the foreign
regarding the documents until November 1956.         exchange costs involved.
Thailanc * This year's loan of £S2 million was the second  in7port of equipment flb the railway maintenance workshops
to assist the modernization of the State Railway system.  (left) at Bangkok, among the mzost m1odeln and efficient in
The previous $3 million loan, made in 1950, financed the  Asia, and also equipment Jbr the new signal boxes (right).
.47.



ECONOMIC BENEFITS * The railways radiate out of  to maintain close consultation with the Government
Bangkok, the capital city and principal seaport. They  on matters of mutual interest.
are the only means of transport that link all important  LOAN PROJECTS - Negotiations are well advanced for
regions of the country, and they facilitate transit trade  a loan of about $3.4 million to the Port Authority of
to Cambodia and Laos. Because of their importance  Thailand for the financing of three dredges with
in both internal and international trade, their im-  ancillary equipment, to be operated in the channel
proved efficiency can be expected to benefit the  leading to the Port of Bangkok and in the Port basin.
country's economic development as a whole.           The Bank is studying the proposed Yan Hee multi-
PARTICIPATION * $1,105,000 maturing 1958 through  purpose project, for which the Government has
1959, by the Bank of America.                     requested a loan. The project is designed to be the
OTHER ACTIVITIES                   primary source of power for the Bangkok area and
RESIDEiNT REPRESENTATIVE * In February 1956 the  the Central Plain. It would also provide for flood
Bank stationed a resident representative in Thailand  control and the improvement of irrigation in the plain.
TOTAL LOANS 1947-1956                  No further lending took place in Australasia during
Australia             4              $258,500,000  the fiscal year.
LOANS DURING FISCAL YEAR                                 AUSTRIA
Couintry              No.                Amoutnt
At the close of the year, negotiations had been com-
Finland                1               25,000,000  pleted for two loans totaling $31 million for electric
2  power development. One would be for a hydroelectric
2              40,000,000l 
project on the Danube and the other for the expansion
TOTAL LOANS 1947-1956                of two thermal plants in south-central Austria.
Austria                2               22,000,000
Belgium                3               66,000,000
Denmark                1               40,000,000                   FINLAND
Finland                6               65,081,595
France                 1              250,000,000              ELECTRIC POWER LOAN
Iceland                5                5,914,000        $15 million 20-year 43/4% loan of May 22, 1956
Italy                  3               90'000'000  BORROWER * Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy
Luxembourg             1               11,761,983
Netherlands            9              221,451,985    The Mortgage Bank of Finland is a new institution
Norway                 3               75,000,000  owned almost entirely by the Bank of Finland. It is
Turkey                 6               61,044,000  re-lending the proceeds of the International Bank loan
Yugoslavia             3               60,700,000
to five public and private enterprises which are carry-
Lending in Europe-                                ing out projects for the production and distribution
43 loans in 12 countries totaling   $968,953,563  Of electric power.
*48-



Italy  Ti'rough the 12-year program of the Cassa Per It  Italy. The program incluides irrigation, roads power and
Mezzogiorno, already assisted by Bank loans of $90 million,  industry, as well as better ho7using. Above is a drainage
new lhope and new employment are being brought to Southern  canal to regulate water supplies on the flat Catania Plain.
PURPOS]E * The construction of three hydroelectric  expected by 1960, when all the plants will be in
power plants with a combined generating capacity of  operation.
242,000 kilowatts, the building of two thermal electric  PARTICIPATION- *280.000 maturing  1959, by the
stations with a combined capacity of 102,000 kilo-  New York Trust Company.
watts, and the completion of a transmission system to
bring power from plants in northern Finland to the                       ITALY
more populous and industrialized south.               Staff members have visited Italy during the course
The new plants will become part of the intercon-  of the year for discussions of a further loan to assist
nected power system which supplies the main con-  the Cassa per it Mezzogiorno in carrying forward its
suming centers. The total cost of the work being  12-year program  for the development of Southern
undertaken is estimated at $103 million. It is expected  Italy. By the end of June preliminary negotiations had
that most of the purchases of equipment under the  begun for a loan for projects in the fields of industry,
loan will be made in Western Europe, and that over  electric power and agriculture.
half the loan will be in European currencies.
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Most of the power produced in                      NORWAY
Finland is used by industry, particularly the wood
products industry, in which power costs are a sizeable       HYDROELECTRIC POWER LOAN
component of production costs. Demand for power            $25 million 20-year 43/4'%c loan of May 3, 1956
has been increasing at the rate of 10% per annum in  BORROWER - Norway
recent years and can be expected to continue at this  PURPOSE . To add 400,000 kilowatts of generating
rate for the next few years at least. The expansion now   capacity to the electricity network which serves south-
under way should meet the increase in demand   eastern Norway, including the city of Oslo.
*49.



The project is the first stage of a scheme to develop  the other three before mid-1963. The area which will
the power potential of the Tokke and Vinje river  benefit from the new power now consumes 55% of all
system in southern Norway. This scheme will be the  the power produced in Norway. Projections of the
largest hydroelectric development ever undertaken in  power market in the area show that the additional
Norway and will ultimately provide 800,000 kilowatts  power can be absorbed quickly; all of it will be sold
of new power capacity. In the first stage seven lakes  in bulk to distributing authorities and to industry.
at the headwaters of the rivers will be made into
storage reservoirs. The power house will be constructed          T U R KEY
at Dalen, 100 miles west of Oslo. It will be equipped  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK * During the year
with four hydroelectric units with a combined capacity  the Bank approved three projects being financed by
of 400,000 kilowatts. Also included in the first stage is  the Industrial Development Bank-the construction
the construction of a transmission system to feed  of two textile mills and the expansion of a cement
power from the new plant into the grid which supplies  plant. These, and two supplemental credits for
southeastern Norway. The total cost of the first stage  projects previously approved, called for foreign ex-
will be equivalent to $70 million; the Bank's loan will  change allocations of $2.3 million from the second
provide $25 million of this amount and the remainder  of two $9 million loans which the International Bank
will come from Norwegian sources.               made to the Development Bank in 1950 and 1953.
ECONOMIC BENEFITS  D Despite the rapid expansion of    Starting operations in 1951, the Industrial Develop-
electric power capacity, supply has not kept pace with  ment Bank had lent up to May 1956, 138 million
demand. Power from the Tokke project will help  Turkish lire ($49 million) to 305 enterprises, of which
bring the situation into balance. The first 100,000-  the International Bank's loans have provided $14
kilowatt unit will come into operation in 1961 and  million in foreign exchange for 46 projects.
WE S T  RN  H E MA I SP A E R E
C HILE                         Since the program was started, it has had to be
A Bank mission visited Chile in April and May 1956  considerably revised and expanded to keep pace with
to study the progress being made in the Government's  the extremely rapid growth of traffic, which in five
program of economic and financial stabilization. In  years doubled over most of the roads and more than
June the Bank informed the Government that it  tripled near large cities. This is the third Bank loan
believed that a basis had been established for addi-  for the highways. The first was made to begin the
tional Bank lending in Chile, and that it would  program; the second was made in 1953 when the
proceed forthwith to consider loans for two coal  program was revised to include the paving of most of
mining projects and for certain electric power in-  the roads in the project and the initiation of a com-
stallations.                                    prehensive maintenance program. Plans now call for
higher standards of construction throughout, and the
CO LO MB IA                     loan made this year will finance the additional foreign
exchange costs involved. In addition, it will assist in
HIGHWAY LOAN                    building a new 40-mile road linking Barranquilla on
$16.5 million 15-year 43/4% loan of June 6,1956  the Caribbean coast with Cienaga, where it will meet
BORROWER - Colombia                            the Atlantic Railroad being built with the assistance
PIURPOSE - To complete a program begun in 1951 to  of other Bank loans. All the work included in this
rehabilitate Colombia's principal highways.     highway program should be finished in 1958. It will
.50.



LOANS DURING FISCAL YEAR                               OTHER ACTIVITIES
CountrV               No.                Anount   LOAN PROJECTS e The Bank is considering a loan to
Colombia               1             $ 16,500,000  assist in financing the expansion of the electric power
Ecuador                1                5,000,000  facilities of the city of Bogota.
.Guatemala             1                18,200,000
Haiti                  1                2,600,000  CAUCA VALLEY DEVELOPMENT * In December 1955
Honduras               1                4,200,000  the Bank transmitted to the Colombian Government
Nicaragua              4               12,200,000  and to the Autonomous Regional Corporation of the
Panama                 1                5,900,000  Cauca (CVC) the report of its advisory mission on
Peru                   1                5,000,000
Uruguay                1                5,500,000  the development of the Cauca Valley in Colombia.
-                               The CVC was established in 1954 as an autonomous
12               75,100,000  non-political authority to develop systematically the
TOTAL LOANS 1947-1956               resources of the Cauca region. The region is one of
Brazil                10              194,090,000  Colombia's most important agricultural and industrial
Chile                  4               36,854,456  areas. Its rivers and rich land give it considerable
Colombia              11              111,205,441  hydroelectric power potential for further industrial
Ecuador                2               13,500,000  expansion, and endow it with promising opportunities
El Salvador            2               23,645,000
Guatemala              1               18,200,000  for more extensive agricultural development.
Haiti                  1                2,600,000    In its report, the mission suggested those lines of
Honduras               1                4,200,000  activity which the CVC could most advantageously
Mexico                 6              141,327,888        ..
Nicaragua              9               21,390,115  follow in its first years, emphasizing the need for
Panama                 3                6,847,426  concentrating on a few well-defined undertakings.
Paraguay               1                5,000,000  The core of the suggested program  is the proper
Peru                   7               36,000,000  selection and location of major projects for electric
Uruguay                2               38,500.000
power development and flood prevention. The mission
Lending in Western Hemisphere-                    concluded that the CVC should probably first con-
60 loans in 14 countries totaling  $653,360,326  struct a hydroelectric station at Calima, about 50
miles from Cali. This would be followed by a multi-
cost the  equivalent of $200  million, including  purpose project at Timba, at the southern end of the
$47,350,000 of foreign exchange provided by the  Valley. The mission recommended that detailed
three Bank loans.                                 surveys be made in order to determine the most
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Lack of good transportation   appropriate scale and timing of flood protection
has been one of the chief obstacles to Colombia's  measures. Pilot projects were also suggested for
economic development. The rehabilitation of about  drainage and irrigation.
1,900 miles of the principal highways was undertaken    The other major recommendations made by the
to provide good road transport between the larger  mission were that CVC should establish an agricultural
cities and the principal ocean and river ports. The  division whose services would include the adminis-
benefits of highway improvements are already be-  tration  of farm  machinery pools and extension
coming apparent. Prolonged traffic interruptions, due  services, that the Corporation should propose a plan
to washouts and landslides, have been virtually  to improve departmental roads in the region, and that
eliminated. Better alignment, more gradual gradients,  it should appoint an Industrial Services Officer who
increased width, and the paving of road surfaces have  would aid in the establishment of new industries or
reduced the time taken by road transport, in many  the expansion of existing ones. The report concluded
cases from days to a few hours, and have lowered  by outlining various methods by which the CVC
transportation costs.                             could finance the development program.
*51 -



Colombia  Tlhree parallel 10,000 ft. high Sierras divide  ever-growing traffic imposes progressively higher construc-
Colombia from North to South. Road building and main-  tion standards. The Bank has now made three loans, totalling
tenance need the most rugged of modern equipment, and  over $47 milliont, to aid Colombian highway programs.
AGRICULTURAL MISSION * In June 1956 the Bank  of land use be gradually changed so that flat, fertile
transmitted to the Government a report on Colombia's  lands now  used mainly for pasture will be used
agricultural development prepared by a mission which  increasingly for mixed farming. Other recommenda-
visited Colombia in April-June 1955. The mission  tions relate to the relocation of the rural population
found that while Colombia has made considerable  on better lands; the improvement of farms through
progress in the development of agriculture in recent  flood protection, irrigation and drainage; the wide-
years, the rate of progress has not been sufficient to  spread application of modern methods of cultivation;
keep pace with the needs of the rapidly growing  marketing, financial and farm credit policies; and the
population. Agriculture would need to be expanded  organizational machinery necessary to plan, coordi-
by 25%c over the next ten years merely to provide for  nate and carry out the program.
the expected increase in population. The mission    The Bank has arranged to station a member of its
concluded that a considerably higher increase could  staff in Colombia for one year from July 1956 to advise
be achieved over this period and suggested a program   and assist in the execution of the agricultural program.
for doing so. Its recommendations were directed both  REPORT ON INVESTMENT PROGRAM  * At the request
toward measures that will open new crop and pasture  of the Government, a Bank mission made a study of
lands and toward measures that will bring about a  Colombia's program  for public investment and
steady and substantial increase of output, at lower  external borrowing, and in February 1956 presented
production costs, on lands now in use. One of the  its report and recommendations to the Government.
most important recommendations is that the pattern  The report presented in detail the mission's suggestions
52.



regarding an investment program for 1956 and made  PARTICIPATION * $197,000 maturing 1959 through
some general proposals regarding the scale and  1960, by the Bank of America.
character of public investment in the next few years.          OTHER ACTIVITIES
LOAN PROJECTS * The Bank has two projects under
COSTA  RICA                      consideration in Ecuador: a program for the con-
Early in the fiscal year, the Bank informed the Govern-  struction and maintenance of national highways and
ment that it was prepared to open negotiations for a  a project for the construction of a new port at
loan to the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange,  Guayaquil.
to be re-lent through the commercial banking system,  RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVE * The Bank continued to
for the development of agriculture and industry. At  station a representative in Ecuador during the year to
the end of the fiscal year, legislation was pending in  serve as liaison with the National Board of Planning
the Congress authorizing negotiation of the loan.  and Economic Co-ordination.
ECUADOR                                       GUATEMALA
ELECTRIC POWER LOAN                                 HIGHWAY LOAN
$5 million 20-year 43/4%/0 loan of March 29, 1956  $18.2 million 15-year 45/8'7o loan of July 29, 1955
BORROWER * Empresa Electrica Quito, S. A.       BORROWER * Guatemala
The Empresa, an autonomous publicly-owned  PURPOSE * To complete the Atlantic and Pacific
corporation, supplies power to Quito, the capital of  Highways and carry out a three-year program  to
Ecuador.                                       improve and maintain existing roads.
PURPOSE * The construction of plant and other    The Atlantic Highway will be a paved, all-weather
facilities that will nearly triple the supply of power to  road, 190 miles long, running between Guatemala
the Quito area.                                 City and the Caribbean ports of Puerto Barrios and
A 3,000-kilowatt thermal plant will be built in  Santo Tomas. The Pacific Highway will be 217 miles
Quito, a 14,480-kilowatt hydroelectric plant will be  long, extending from  the Mexican border to El
built nearby and a 151/2-mile transmission line will be  Salvador in the south. Both the roads are scheduled
erected to bring 1,500 kilowatts of power from the  to be finished in 1958. The total cost of the construc-
nearby town of Machachi. In addition, existing trans-  tion and maintenance program is estimated at the
mission facilities will be improved and expanded. The  equivalent of $40 million; the Bank's loan is paying
Machachi transmission line and the thermal plant  for imported equipment, materials and services.
will be complete in 1957 and the hydroelectric plant  ECONOMIC BENEFITS * The program  should reduce
in 1958. The total cost of the projects is estimated at  transport costs, facilitate internal and external trade
the equivalent of about $9 million; the Bank's loan  and stimulate agricultural production, Guatemala's
will pay for the-necessary imported equipment.  main economic activity. The Atlantic Highway will
ECONOMIC BENEFITS The Quito area has a population  provide an alternative route to the single-track railroad
of 225,000 and is one of the main industrial regions  which is now the only connection between central
of Ecuador. It is the center of textile manufacturing,  Guatemala and the Caribbean. Adequate and depend-
Ecuador's leading industry, and of a fast-growing  able communications with Puerto Barrios are particu-
pharmaceutical industry. The new power supply will  larly important, since the port handles two-thirds of
enable the Empresa to handle the heavy backlog of  Guatemala's foreign trade. The Pacific Highway will
demand from industrial consumers and provide for  be the backbone of the road system in the Pacific
the expected industrial and residential demands for  coastal plain and the piedmont of western Guatemala.
the next few years.                             Although this region contains the country's richest
.53.



agricultural land, it is virtually unexploited. The  PARTICIPATION * $413,000 maturing 1959 through
highway can be expected to make possible a rapid and  1960, by the Royal Bank of Canada.
substantial increase of cultivation in the area.
PARTICIPATION *$576,000 maturing 1959, by the                   HONDURAS
Bank of America.
OTHER ACTIVITIES                                 HIGHWAY LOAN
LOAN PROJECTS * The Bank is considering a loan to   S4.2 million 9-year 41/2%, loan of December 22,1955
the Instituto de Fomento de la Producci6n to provide  BORROWER * Honduras
foreign exchange for medium and long term loans to  PURPOSE * To establish and begin the operation of a
farmers for the purchase of agricultural machinery  road maintenance division in the Highway Depart-
and supplies and livestock for breeding.        ment, and to make preliminary engineering studies for
RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVE * The Bank continued to  the improvement and new construction of various
station a resident representative in Guatemala.  sections of two important trunk roads, the Northern
and Western Highways. The total cost of these
H A I TI                     measures is estimated at the equivalent of $8 million.
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Lack of an adequate transport
HIGHWAY LOAN                     system seriously hampers the economic development
$2.6 million 10-year 41/2% loan of May 7, 1956  of Honduras. Several areas have important possi-
BORROWER * Haiti                                bilities for the development of crops, livestock and
PURPOSE - A three-year highway improvement pro-  timber but, in the absence of transport, they are now
gram under which a highway maintenance section will  virtually unused. Road maintenance is the first step
be organized, staffed and equipped to rehabilitate and  in a comprehensive program which will be undertaken
repair 725 miles of primary and secondary roads and  by the Government to improve and expand the high-
to provide continuing maintenance on all public roads.  way network and thereby encourage more widespread
The establishment of an efficient maintenance  development throughout the country.
organization will be the first step toward the develop-  PARTICIPATION- $872,000 maturing 1957 through
ment of an adequate highway department, capable of  1959, by the Bank of America, the American Security
supervising construction work and eventually of  and Trust Company of Washington, D. C., and the
carrying out important construction. The total cost  Whitney National Bank of New Orleans.
of the work being undertaken with Bank assistance is           OTHER ACTIVITIES
estimated at the equivalent of $4 million. The loan  RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVE * The Bank continued to
is for imported equipment, materials and services.   station a resident representative in Honduras.
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Haiti is predominantly an agri-
cultural country. Because of inadequate roads, crops              M E X I C O
pass through many successive and costly stages of  LOAN PROJECT * The Bank has under consideration
transportation before they reach markets and com-  a loan to the Mexican Light and Power Company,
mercial centers. The program now being undertaken  Limited, to assist in financing the expansion of the
will eliminate many of the difficulties of transport and  Company's facilities for serving the Mexico City area.
thus permit the more efficient marketing of agricultural  POWER STUDY - The study  on Mexico's future
produce. This should reduce food imports and en-  requirements for electric power and the means of
courage larger exports of commercial crops. In  financing them, which was initiated in 1953 and
addition, easier motor travel should give further  carried out with the Bank's cooperation, has been
impetus to Haiti's growing tourist industry, now  completed. The Government is now reviewing the
second only to coffee as a source of foreign exchange.  recommendations of the Report.
.54.



N IC AR A G U A                   beginning of an organized power network with
facilities capable of satisfying an expanding market.
ELECTRIC POWER LOANS                  Power from  the new plant will supply the most
S7.1 million 20-year 43/4% loan of July 8, 1955  populous and productive parts of Nicaragua and
BORRONVER * Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza de  should meet their power requirements until 1963.
Managua
The Empresa is an autonomous government-owned                AGRICULTURAL LOAN
corporation which has responsibility for supplying     $1.5 million 12-year 41¼4%7o loan of August 26, 1955
power to the Managua area.                        BORROWER * Instituto de Fomento Nacional
PARTIC]:PATION * $724,000 maturing 1958 through  PURPOSE * The importation of machinery, equipment
1960, by the Bank of America.                     and materials to be used for land clearance, soil
$400,000 20-year 43/4% loan of July 8, 1955  erosion control, pasture improvement and milk
BORROWVER * Instituto de Fomento Nacional         processing, and the importation of cattle for breeding
The Instituto is an autonomous government agency  purposes. The Instituto will extend credit for the
which provides financial and technical assistance for  purchase of Bank-financed goods by farmers, ma-
industrial and agricultural development.          chinery operators and owners of milk-processing
plants.
PURPOSE OF LOANS * The construction of a 30,000-  ECONOMIC BENEFITS * In  recent years the rapid
kilowalt thermal power plant in Managua, transmis-  expansion of cotton cultivation has absorbed large
sion lines to 15 outlying towns, and expansion of the  areas of land formerly devoted to food crops. It has
distribution systems in Managua and the towns.   therefore become necessary to expand the area
The $7.1 million loan will pay for imported equip-  available for the cultivation of food crops and, at the
ment, materials and services needed by Empresa to  same time, to take measures to prevent soil erosion.
build the new power plant and transmission lines and  The loan will assist the Instituto in its attempts to
to expand its distribution system in Managua. The  meet this need by providing machinery for the
$400,000 loan will be re-lent by Fomento to small  clearance of new land and for erosion control opera-
power distributors in the 15 outlying towns to defray  tions. Through technical and financial assistance, the
the foreign exchange costs of renovating and expand-  Instituto is also encouraging the efforts of farmers to
ing their distribution systems. These utilities will  raise milk and beef production and to increase the
distribute power transmitted from the new Managua  supply of pasteurized milk and milk products. This
plant. The total cost of the work to be carried out  should help to raise dietary and health standards in
with the help of the two loans is estimated at the  Nicaragua. Progress in this direction is being achieved
equivalent of $10.8 million and the work should be  through pasture improvement, the establishment of
completed by the end of 1957.                     milk collection centers and processing plants, and the
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * The expansion of the Nicara-  importation of more high grade breeding stock.
guan economy in recent years has increased the  PARTICIPATION * $735,000 maturing 1957 through
demand for power, especially in Managua and the  1960, by the Bank of America.
surrounding area. Generating and distributing facili-
tics havc not kept pacc with this demand and many             PORT OF CORINTO LOAN
industrial and commercial establishments have had to    $3.2 million 20-year 43/4% loan of May 22, 1956
install their own high-cost diesel power units. The  BORROWER . Autoridad Portuaria de Corinto
construction of the new thermal plant at Managua,    The Authority was established in 1956 as an
together with transmission lines to the 15 towns and  autonomous public agency to operate the Port of
improvements in the distribution systems, marks the  Corinto. The Board of Directors of the Authority
.55.



includes representatives of agricultural, commercial  the roads hampers the delivery of crops, makes
and shipping interests and of the government.   transport expensive for the farmer and weakens the
PURPOSE * To increase the capacity of the Port of  incentive to produce. Food imports into Panama and
Corinto to handle both ships and cargo. Improvements  the Canal Zone are more than twice the value of food
include the construction of a 1,200-foot concrete  grown domestically; but once the road system is
wharf and two transit sheds, the acquisition of cargo-  improved, domestic production could partially replace
handling equipment, and the installation of rail, road  imports.
and service facilities.                         PARTICIPATION * $1,700,000 maturing 1959 through
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Corinto is Nicaragua's only  1960, by the Bank of America and the Chemical Corn
deep water port on the Pacific and serves the most  Exchange Bank of New York.
highly developed part of Nicaragua. The Port handles          OTHER ACTIVITIES
about three-quarters of Nicaragua's international  RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVE * The Bank continued to
trade. The rapid growth of trade in recent years and  station a resident representative in Panama.
especially of cotton and cottonseed exports has already
overtaxed the capacity of the port, and traffic is still           P E RU
growing. The improvements now being undertaken
will eliminate the serious delays encountered by                HIGHWAY LOAN
shipping at Corinto and will enable the port to handle  $5 million 9-year 414%o loan of August 5, 1955
increasing traffic for some years to come.      BORROWER * Peru
PARTICIPATION * $121,000 maturing 1959 through  PURPOSE * The execution of a program of highway
1960, by the Bank of America.                   maintenance including the training of personnel in
OTHER ACTIVITIES                 modern maintenance methods.
RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVE  T The Bank continued to    The loan will finance the importation of main-
station a resident representative in Nicaragua.  tenance equipment and heavy maintenance materials,
spare parts and machinery for repair shops, and will
PANAMA                         cover the fees of engineering consultants. The con-
sultants will assist the Department of Highways during
HIGHWAY LOAN                    a three-year period in organizing and carrying out the
$5.9 million 9-year 41/4%o loan of July 12, 1955  program, and will conduct a preliminary survey of a
BORROWER * Panama                               project for improvement of the easternmost section
PURPOSE * To organize and equip a road maintenance  of the trans-Andean road leading from Lima to the
service in the Highway Department, and to recon-  town of Pucallpa on the headwaters of the Amazon.
struct most of Panama's surfaced highways.      ECONOMIC BENEFITS * Roads are the chief means of
Over a four-year period some 635 miles of highway  transport between important regions of Peru. In
are to be reconstructed and necessary maintenance is  recent years the Government has invested heavily in
to be carried out on all the surfaced highways. The  road construction, but because of lack of maintenance
total cost of the program is estimated at the equivalent  many of the roads are already in need of rehabilitation.
of $9.65 million; the Bank's loan will pay the cost of  The operation of a modern, well-equipped and con-
imported equipment, materials and services.     tinuous maintenance service will protect the Govern-
ECONOMIC BENEFITS * An efficient maintenance or-  ment's investment and reduce the need for further
ganization will reduce the cost of future upkeep and  costly rehabilitation. Well-maintained roads will lower
building of roads, and a good road system will remove  trucking costs by increasing the economic life of
one of the main obstacles to the development of  vehicles; decrease road transit time; and reduce the
Panama. At the present time, the poor condition of  losses incurred in the shipment of perishable goods.
*56



Uruguay  Work is proceeding on the installation of a new  this size to be installed at the plant with the help of Bank
50,000-kYlonwatt generator at the Bathle y Ordouiez thermal  loans, and is partI of a larger expansion program aimied at
power station in Montevideo. It is the second generator of  mneeting expected demand for elec-tricit-v utntil abhout 1962.
PARTICIPATION * $683,000 maturing  1958 through   should come into full operation by the end of 1957.
1959, by the Chemical Corn Exchange Bank.           ECONOMIC BENEFITS * The Batlle power project is
OTHER ACTIVITIES                    part of a larger power expansion program directed at
LOAN PROJECT * The Bank has under consideration a  meeting Uruguay's expected power demand until
project for building to all-weather standards that part  about 1962. Increased supplies of electric power are
of the Lima to Pucallpa road east of the Aguaytia  needed to promote further economic progress in
River.                                              Uruguay, not only in the Montevideo industrial area
but also in the interior, where industrial sales of power
U RU G U A Y                      have doubled in the past five years.
ELECTRIC POWER LOAN                    PARTICIPATION * $654,000 equivalent, maturing 1958
S$'.5 million 20-year 43/4¾/-% loan of August 29, 1955  through 1960, by the First National City Bank of New
BORROWER * Administraci6n General de las Usinas  York and Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V.
Electricas y los Telefonos del Estado (U. T. E.)                    OTHER ACTIVITIES
U. T. E. is an autonomous government agency with  LOAN PROJECTS - Negotiations began in June 1956
the exclusive right to provide electricity and telephone  for a loan of about $25 million to finance the foreign
service in Uruguay.                                 exchange costs of a 103,000-kilowatt hydroelectric
PURPOSE . The installation of a new 50,000-kilowatt  power station on the Rio Negro at Rinc6n del
generating unit in the Batlle y Ordohez thermal power  Baygorria in central Uruguay. Discussions have also
station in Montevideo. Another 50,000-kilowatt unit  been held during the year on a livestock project
was installed earlier under a Bank loan made to   which has been under consideration for some time.
U. T. E. in 1950. The new generator will increase the  The Uruguayan Parliament has before it legislative
statior's installed capacity to 150,000 kilowatts and   measures necessary to put the project into effect.
*57.



Loans Classified by Purpose and Area
JUNE 30, 1956
EXPRESSED IN MILLIONS OF UNITED STATES DOLLARS, NET OF CANCELLATIONS AND REFUNDINGS
Areas
Western
Austral-              Heniii-
Purpose                        Total      Africa      Asia      asia     Europe    sphere
Grand Total  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    2,667          347        439        259       969        653
Development Loans
Total .2,170   347   439   259   472   653
ELECTRIC POWER
Generation and Distribution  .  .  .  .  .       789       178        136         33       130        312
TRANSPORT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         656        125       128         97        59        247
Railroads .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        348       117         80         21         3        127
Shipping  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         12        -          -         -          12         -
Ports and Inland Waterways  .  .  .  .  .         78         1         34        -          37          6
Roads .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         163         7         -         42         -         114
Airlines and Airports   .  .  .  .  .  .  .      41         -          -         34          7         -
Pipelines (natural gas)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      14        -          14        -          -
COMMUNICATIONS
Telephone, Telegraph and Radio  .  .  .  .        26         2         -         -          -          24
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY  .  .  .  .  .  .         228        -          41         89        51         47
Farm Mechanization   .  .  .  .  .  .  .          99        -          -          75         2         22
Irrigation and Flood Control .  .  .  .  .        88        -          31         6         31         20
Land Clearance and Improvement   .  .  .          20        -          10          6         2          2
Crop Processing and Storage  .  .  .  .  .         6        -          -         -           4          2
Livestock  1 ..                                    I             -               -          -           I
Forestry .   . .... .   . . ..    14                        -          -          2         12         -
INDUSTRY   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         331         2        134         40       132         23
Iron and Steel   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .       145        -         114         10        21         -
Pulp and Paper .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          63        -           4        -          39         20
Fertilizer and other Chemicals .  .  .  .  .      21        -          -           1        20         -
Other Industries .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        48        -           6         18        22          2
Mining   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         23         -          -          11        12         -
Development Banks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          31         2         10        -          18          1
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .         140        40         -          -        100
Reconstruction Loans
Total . . . . . . . . . .   497                       -         -          -         497
*58.



appendices
Appendix                                                                         Page
A     Balance Sheet .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  60
B     Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses .        .   .   .   .   .   .  62
C     Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank .      .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  63
D     Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power .  .  .    64
E     Funded Debt of the Bank    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  65
F     Summary Statement of Loans   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  66
G     Notes to Financial Statements  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  67
H     Opinion of Independent Auditor   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  69
I     Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1956   .      70
J     Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries  .  .  .  .  .       71
K     Governors and Alternates   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        72
L     Executive Directors and Alternates and their Voting Power .  .  .  .    73
M     Principal Officers of the Bank   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     75
.59.



APPENDIX A
Balance Sheet
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Other Depositories (See APPENDIX C)
Member currencies,
including $10,470,915 United States dollars
Unrestricted  ...  .        .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .     .    $ 15,805,616
Subject to restrictions-NOTEB   ...  .        .  .   .     .  99,298,373  $115,103,989
Non-member currencies  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .                           8,997,186   $ 124,101,175
Investment Securities
United States Government obligations
($323,887,000 face amount;
at cost plus accumulated discount
and less amortized premium) .      .  .  . .  .  .  . .    $323,487,749
Canadian Government obligations
(Can $24,075,000 face amount; at cost
less amortized premium).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      21,936,104
United Kingdom Government obligations
(£2,390,000 face amount; at cost) .  .  .  .  .  .  . .      6,607,693    $352,031,546
Accrued interest   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .                         2,701,758     354,733,304
Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital
(See APPENDIX D)
Receivable in United States currency
Calls on subscription to capital stock .  .  .  .  .  . .                 $ 2,660,000
Receivable in other member currencies-NOTE B
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes        $793,303,304
Amounts required to maintain
value of currency holdings .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .          4,547      793,307,851     795,967,851
Effective Loans Held by Bank (See APPENDIX F)-NOTE C
(Including undisbursed balance of $472,254,184)  .  . .  .                                  2,001,807,447
Accrued Interest, Commitment and Service Charges
on Loans .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                         13,844,814
Receivable from Purchasers on Account of Effective Loans
Sold or Agreed to be Sold .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .                                        8,117,395
Other Receivables and Other Assets   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                        653,974
Special Reserve Fund Assets-NOTE D
Due from Banks-member currency-United States  .  .                           $      578
Investment securities-United States Government obligations
($73,388,000 face amount; at cost plus accumulated discount)                73,348,008
Accrued loan commissions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                        3,655,504      77,004,090
Staff Retirement Plan Assets
(Segregated and held in trust) .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .                                     4,048,104
Total Assets .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .                                      $3,380,278,154
*60-



APPENDIX A
June 30, 1956
See Note A of NVotes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including $8,828,001 bond interest  .                 $  10,367,024
Collection on loans in advance of due date  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                         996,634
Undisbursed balance of effective loans (See APPENDIX F)
On loans held by Bank  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   $ 472,254,184
On loans sold or agreed to be sold .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .       4,629,143      476,883,327
Funded debt (See APPENDIX E)
(Of this amount $85,466,760 is due within one year) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                    850,224,296
Bonds called for redemption not presented  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   $      18,629
Less funds on deposit with Fiscal Agent therefor .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        18,629          -
Reserves for Losses
Special reserve-NOTE D    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   $  77,004,090
Supplemental reserve against losses on loans and guarantees-NOTE E     .        150,654,679     227,658,769
Staff Retirement Plan Reserve    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                        4,048,104
Capital (See APPENDIX D)
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 90,505 shares .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   $9,050,500,000
Less-Uncalled portion of subscriptions-NOTE F .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    7,240,400,000    1,810,100,000
Contingent Liability-LOANS SOLD UNDER GUARANTEE-NOTE G   .  . $25,834,500
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .               $ 3,380,278,154
*61-



APPENDIX B
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses
FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1955 AND JUNE 30, 1956
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY-See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
July .1-June 30
1954-1955         1955-1956
Income
Income from investments  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .    $ 9,682,052            $ 9,585,407
Income from loans:
Interest .44,327,397   50,123,943
Commitment charges .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .         3,643,206          3,863,589
Commissions .13,306,897   14,747,349
Service charges .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .       192,814           303,843
Other income .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          692,753             4,088
Gross Income  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   $71,845,119         $78,628,219
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commissions
appropriated to Special Reserve-NOTE D   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   13,306,897         14,747.349
Gross Income Less Reserve Deduction  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .   $58,538,222        $63,880,870
Expenses
Administrative expenses:
Personal services .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   $ 3,767,648         $ 4,131,105
Fees and compensation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        567,006            598,234
Representation   .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .            75,216            69,078
Travel .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .           834,700          1,003,303
Supplies and material .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         51,884            63,820
Rents and utility services .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     545,340           636,620
Communication services .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .          168,538           198,238
Furniture and equipment   .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .            69,793            92,916
Books and library services  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .         68,722            74,996
Printing ... ................. ..  74,099                                                       102,527
Contributions to staff benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     391,801           426,766
Insurance .24,501   30,079
Other expenses.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .             9,027             8,363
Total Administrative Expenses .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   $ 6,648,275        $ 7,436,045
Interest on bonds   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    26,048,451          26,547,315
Bond issuance and other financial expenses-NoTE H   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    1,162,009           744,232
Gross Expenses   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .   $33,858,735           $34,727,592
Net Income-Appropriated to Supplemental Reserve
against losses on loans and guarantees-NOTE E .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .    $24,679,487      $29,153,278
.62-



APPENDIX C
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank
JUNE 30, 1956
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Member CuLrrencies                                    Amount expressed                                Total expr-essed
Unit of    in member currency                              in United States
Member                          currency        (Restricted)           Rate of exchange          dollars
Afghanistan  ...  .       .   .  .     .  Afghani       30,233,775           S=   16.80              S  1,799,629
Australia .........    Pound                               148,105           $=    0.4464                331,757
Austria . ........    Schilling                          7,086,999           $=   26.00                  272,577
Belgium . .....                        Franc             3,391,537           $=   50.00                   67,831
Bolivia . .....                        Boliviano         2,249,308           S=  190.00                   11,838
Brazil .  . . . . . . . . .    Cruzeiro                347,307,296           S=   18.50                18,773,367
Burma . ........    Kyat                                  136,256            S=    4.7619                 28,614
Canada . ........    Dollar                                53,250            S=    1.10                   48,409
Ceylon . ........    Rupee                                 39,721      $       =    4.7619                 8,341
Chile .  . . . . . . . .               Peso            688,234,367           $ =  110.00                6,256,676
China .........                        Yuan             21,480,529           $=   20.00                 1,074,026
Colombia . . . . . . . . .    Peso                      12,060,611           $ =    1.949981            6,184,989
Costa Rica  .  . . . . . . .    Colon                    1,984,255           S =    5.615                353,385
Cuba ...  .         .  .  .   .  .    .    Peso            51,933            $=    1.00                   51,933
Denmark ...  .         .   .  .   .    .  Krone          2,173,021           $=    6.90714               314,605
Dominican Republic   . . . . .    Peso                        972            $=    1.00                      972
Ecuador ...  .         .   .  .   .    .  Sucre          8,207,641           $=   15.00                  547,176
Egypt .  ...  .        .   .  .   .    .  Pound            14,240            S=    0.34824                40,891
El Salvador  .  . . . . . . .    Colon                    420,101            $ =    2.50                 168,040
Ethiopia . ........    Dollar                            1,261,725           $=    2.48447               507,844
Finland . ........    Markka                         1,569,425,656     $       =  230.00                6,823,590
France . ........    Franc                             805,034,606           $=  349.60                 2,302,806
Germrany .  . . . . . . . .    Deutsche Mark    4,802,068              $        =    4.20               1,143,350
Greece   .........               .    Drachma          22,400,000            S=    5.00                 4,480,000
Guatemala   ...  .        .  .  .     .  Quetzal          339,326            $=    1.00                  339,326
Haiti .G..  .       .   .  .  .  .    .  Gourde            30,170            $=    5.00                    6,034
Honduras ........  .    Lempira                           341,338            $      2.00                 170,669
Iceland   ...      . . . . .  .    Krona                2,828,362      $       =   16.2857               173,672
India ...  .        .  .   .  .  .    .  Rupee           2,814,483           $=    4.7619                591,041
Indonesia ...  .       .   .  .   .    .  Rupiah        2,164,125            $=   11.40                  189,836
Iran   . .  . . . .  . .  . .    Rial                     512,268            $=   32.25                   15,884
Iraq   ..........                      Dinar                1,165            $=    0.3571                  3,262
Israel ..........                     Pound                13,096            $=    1.80                    7,275
Italy  ..........                      Lira            368,069,669           $=  350.00                 1,051,628
Japan ..........                       Yen            793,992,894            $=  360.00                 2,205,536
Jordan   ...  .        .   .  .   .    .  Dinar             3,135            $=    0.3571                  8,778
Korea ...  .        .  .   .  .  .    .  Hwan        1,124,446,600           $=  500.00                 2,248,893
Lebanon  ...  .        .   .  .   .    .  Pound          1,567,497           $=    2.19148               715,269
Luxembourg ...  .         .  .  .     .    Franc         5,847,850           $=   50.00                  116,957
Mexico   ...  .        .   .  .   .    .    Peso       134,388,625           $=   12.50                10,751,090
Netherlands ...  .        .  .  .     .  Guilder         2,523,398           $=    3.80                  664,052
Nicaragua   ...  .        .  .  .     .  Cordoba          850,661            $=    7.00                  121,523
NorwaLy . ....... .    Krone                              584,598            $=    7.14286                81,844
Pakistan  .........              .    Rupee               480,276            $=    4.7619                100,858
Panama . ......              .. .    Balboa                 7,235      $       =    1.00                   7,235
Paraguay .........               .    Guarani           12,154,956           $=   60.00                  202,583
Peru .    . . . . . . . . .    Sol                       1,294,329     $       =    6.50                 199,127
Philippines  ...  .       .  .  .     .    Peso         2,375,746            $=    2.00                 1,187,873
Sweden   ...  .        .   .  .   .    .  Krona        77,720,862            $=    5.17321             15,023,721
Syria  ...  .       .  .   .  .  .    .  Pound             17,989            $=    2.19148                 8,208
Thailand ...  .        .   .  .   .    .  Baht             86,997            $=   12.50                    6,960
Turkey   ...  .        .   .  .   .    .  Lira            344,365            $=    2.80                  122,987
Union of South Africa .  . .  . .    Pound                 95,507            $ =    0.3571               267,421
United Kingdom    .  . . . . .    Pound                   208,340            $ =    0.3571               583,352
United States   . . . . . . .    Dollar                                      $ =                         153,439
Uruguay  ...  .        .   .  .   .    .  Peso          2,795,967            $=    1.519                1,840,603
Venezuela   ...  .        .  .  .     .    Bolivar      4,556,723            $=    3.35                 1,360,216
Yugoslavia  ...         .  . . .  .    Dinar         2,153,572,366           $=  300.00                7,178,575
Restricted Currency (NOTE B) .  .  .  . . . .  . .  . .  . .  . . . . . . .                 $ 99,298,373
Unrestricted Currency (Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom and United States)   . .  . . .        15,805,616
$115,103,989
Non-Member Currency (Switzerland)   . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           8,997,186
Total .$124,101,175
*63-



APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power
JUNE 30, 1956
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY-See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Amouints Paid in
In currency of In non-interest-           Subject to
Subscrijptionis         in      member other  bearing, non-               coil to mneet
United    than United    negotiable    Amounts    obligations
Amount         States    States dollars  demand notes    past       of Bank    Number
Member          Shiares    (Note 1)        dollars     (Note B)      (Nate B)        due        (Note F)    of votes
Afghanistan .  .  .  .    100 $  10,000,000$   200,000  8  1,800,000  s           -      $   -       $   8,000,000     350
Australia   .  .  ..2,000    200,000,000          4,000,000       360,368    35,639,632      -         160,000,000   2,250
Austria .     . ...       500      50,000,000     1,000,000     1,837,479     7,162,521      -          40,000,000     750
Belgium .     . ...2,250    225,000,000           4,500,000     6,344,422    34,155,578      -         190,000,000   2,500
Bolivia .     . ...        70       7,000,000       140,000        12,600     1,247,400      -           5,600,000     320
Brazil .     . ...1,050    105,000,000            2,100,000    18,900,000        -           -          84,000,000    1,300
Burma .       . ...       150      15,000,000       300,000        52,200     2,647,800      -          12,000,000     400
Canada .     . ...3,250    325,000,000            6,500,000    53,201,364     5,298,636      -         260,000,000   3,500
Ceylon .      . ..        150      15,000,000       300,000        32,997     2,667,003      -          12,000,000     400
Chile .      . ...        350      35,000,000       700,000     6,300,000         -          -          28,000,000     600
China .      . ...6,000    600,000,000            9,340,000     1,080,000   106,920,000   2,660,000    480,000,000   6,250
Colombia  ..350                    35,000,000       700,000     6,300,000        -           -          28,000,000     600
Costa Rica .  .     ~~~     ~~~~~~~20  2,000,000  40,000   360,000-1,000                                        27
Cuba ..      . ...        350      35,000,000       700,000        63,000     6,237,000      -          28,000,000     600
Denmark   .  ...          680      68,000,000     1,360,000     2,728,399     9,511,601      -          54,400,000     930
Dominican Republic         20       2,000,000        40,000         3,600       356,400      -           1,600,000     270
Ecuador.  . .              32       3,200,000        64,000       576,000        -           -           2,560,000     282
Egypt .       . ...       533      53,300,000     1,066,000        95,940     9,498,060      -          42,640,000     783
El Salvador.. .  .          10      1,000,000        20,000       180,000         -          -             800,000     260
Ethiopia    .  .,           30      3,000,000        60,000       540,000         --                     2,400,000     280
Finland .     . ...       380      38,000,000       760,000     6,840,000        -           -          30,400,000     630
France  .    . ..        5,250    525,000,000    10,500,000    27,938,215    66,561,785      -         420,000,000   5,500
Germany .. .  .          3,300    330,000,000     6,600,000    14,874,458    44,525,542      -         264,000,000   3,550
Greece .      . ...       250      25,000,000       500,000     4,500,000        -           -          20,000,000     500
Guatemala.. .  .           20       2,000,000        40,000       360,000        -           -            1,600,000    270
Haiti .       . ...        20       2,000,000        40,000        10,800       349,200      -           1,600,000     270
Honduras.. .  .             10      1,000,000        20,000       180,000        -           -             800,000     260
Iceland .     . ...         10      1,000 ,000       20,000       180,000         --800,000                            260
India  .     . ...4,000    400,000,000            8,000,000       721,800    71,278,200      -         320,000,000   4,250
Indonesia .. .  .        1,100    110,000,000     2,200,000       198,000    19,602,000      -          88,000,000   1,350
Iran ..      . ...        336      33,600,000       672,000        60,480     5,987,520      -          26,880,000     586
Iraq ..      . ...         60       6,000,000       120,000        20,880     1,059,120      -           4,800,000     310
Israel ..     . ...        45       4,500,000        90,000         8,100       801,900      -           3,600,000     295
Italy.      .....1,800    180,000,000             3,600,000     9,971,429    22,428,571       -        144,000,000   2,050
Japan.          ....2,500    250,000,000          5,000,000     2,672,222    42,327,778       -        200,000,000   2,750
Jordan.         ....       30       3,000,000        60,000        15,410       524,590      -           2,400,000     280
Korea.          ....      125      12,500,000       250,000     2,250,000                    -          10,000,000     375
Lebanon.   ....            45       4,500,000        90,000       810,000        -           -           3,600,000     295
Luxembourg   .  .         100o    10,000,000        200,000       118,000     1,682,000      -           8,000,000     350
Mexico.         ....      650      65,000,000     1,300,000    11,700,000         -          -          52,000,000     900
Netherlands . .  .    2,750    275,000,000        5,500,000     9,500,000    40,000,000      -         220,000,000   3,000
Nicaragua. .  .  .           8        800,000        16,000       144,000                    -             640,000     258
Norway.        ....       500      50,000,000     1,000,000       370,000     8,630,000      -          40,000,000     750
Pakistan    . .  .  .    1,000    100,000,000     2,000,000       180,008    17,819,992      -          80,000,000   1,250
Panama.        ....         2         200,000         4,000        36,000        -           -             160,000     252
Paraguay . .  .  .          14      1,400,000        28,000       252,000        -           -           1,120,000     264
Peru.       .....         175      17,500,000       350,000       262,269     2,887,731      -          14,000,000     425
Philippines. .  .  .       150     15,000,000       300,000     1,200,000     1,500,000      -          12,000,000     400
Sweden.         ....1,000    100,000,000          2,000,000    18,000,000         -          -          80,000,000   1,250
Syria.           ....      65       6,500,000       130,000        43,642     1,126,358      -           5,200,000     315
Thailand.  ....            125     12,500,000       250,000        52,500     2,197,500      -          10,000,000      375
Turkey.         ....      430      43,000,000       860,000       363,114     7,376,886      -          34,400,000      680
Union of South Africa,  1,000    100,000,000      2,000,000     6,060,000    11,940,000      -.         80,000,000    1,250
United Kingdom   .  .13,000  1,300,000,000    26,000,000    33,170,000   200,830,000         -        1,040,000,000   13,250
United States.. .  31,750  3,175,000,000   635,000,000             -             -           -       2,540,000,000  32,000
Uruguay.   ....           105      10,500,000       210,000     1,890,000        -           -           8,400,000      355
Venezuela. .  .  .         105     10,500,000       210,000     1,365,000       525,000      -           8,400,000      355
Yugoslavia. .  .  .       400      40,000,000       800,000     7,200,000        -           -          32,000,000     650
Totals.. 90,505 89,050,500,000  8749,850,000  $264,286,696  $793,303,304  $2,660,000 87,240,400,000  105,005
.64.



APPENDIX E
Funded Debt of the Bank
JUNE 30, 1956
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY-See Note A of Notes to Fi7tancial Statements, Appendix G
Principal          Annuial sinking
Issute and maturity                             outstanding        fund requirement
Payable in UJnited States Dollars
2% Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1957-62   .  . . . . . . . . . .    $ 60,000,000                   None
3% Three Year Bonds of 1953, due 1956 .  . . . . . . . . .  .             75,000,000            None
21/½% Five Year Bonds of 1954, due 1959   . . . . . .  . . . .            50,000,000            None
31/2% Fifteen Year Bonds of 1954, due 1969 . . .  .  . .  . .  . .       100,000,000    1957-66       $ 4,000,000
1967-68      $ 5,000,000
31/½% Nineteen Year Bonds of 1952, due 1971  .  . .  . .  . .  . .        60,000,000    1957-66      $ 2,000,000
1967-70      $ 2,500,000
3% Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1947, due 1972 .  . . . . . .  .  .         150,000,000    1958-62      $ 3,000,000
1963-67      S 4,500,000
1968-72      $ 7,500,000
33/s% Twenty-Three Year Bonds of 1952, due 1975 . .  . .  . .  .  .       50,000,000    1958         $ 1,000,000
1959-74      $ 1,500,000
3% Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1951, due 1976 .  . .  . .  . . . .          50,000,000    1963         S 1,000,000
1964-75      $ 2,000,000
31/4% Thirty Year Bonds of 1951, due 1981  . . . . .  . . .  . .         100,000,000    1966-67       $ 2,000,000
1968-73      S 3,000,000
1974-80      $ 4,000,000
Sub-Total  .  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   $ 695,000,000
Payable in Canadian Dollars
31/2% F;fteen Year Bonds of 1954, due 1969 (Can$25,000,000).$ 22,727,273    1959-65                 Can$800,000
1966-68    Can$900,000
31/,4% Ten Year Bonds of 1955, due 1965 (Can$15,000,000)   .  . . . .     13,636,363    1958-64     Can$500,000
Sub-Total .$ 36,363,636
Payable in Netherlands Guilders
31/2½c Fifteen Year Bonds of 1954, due 1969 (f40,000,000) . . . . . .    $10,526,316    1960-69       f4,000,000
31/2% Twenty Year Bonds of 1955, due 1975 (f40,000,000) .  . . . .  .     10,526,316    1961-74       f2,640,000
1975          f3,040,000
Sub-Total . ............  .  .. .    $ 21,052,632
Payable in Pounds Sterling
31/2% Twenty Year Stock of 1951, due 1971 (£5,000,000) .  . . . .  .    $ 14,000,000    1957-71        £166,700
3½/%2% Twenty Year Stock of 1954, due 1974 (£5,000,000) . .  . . .  .     14,000,000    1960-74        £166,700
Sub-Total .                                                       28,000,000
Payable in Swiss Francs
31/2% Ten Year Bonds of 1952, due 1962 (Sw fr 50,000,000)  . . . . .    S 11,634,673             None
31/2% T welve Year Bonds of 1951, due 1963 (Sw fr 50,000,000)  . . . .    11,634,671             None
31/2% Fifteen Year Bonds of 1953, due 1968 (Sw fr 50,000,000)  . .  . .   11,634,671             None
31/2% Fifteen Year Bonds of 1953 (Nov. Issue), due 1968 (Sw fr 50,000,000)  11,634,671           None
31/2% Eighteen Year Bonds of 1954, due 1972 (Sw fr 50,000,000) . .  . .   11,634,671             None
31/2% Twenty Year Bonds of 1955, due 1976 (Sw fr 50,000,000)  . . . .     11,634,671    1965-74   Sw fr 4,000,000
1975-76   Sw fr 5,000,000
Sub-Total  . .  . . .  . .  . .  . .  . . . . .  .    $ 69,808,028
Gross Total . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  .    $850,224,296
Each issue, except the 2% Serial Bonds of 1950, is subject to  year for the five years following the date of this statement:
redemption prior to maturity at the option of the Bank at the
prices and upon the conditions stated in the respective bonds.   Year Ending June 30                    Amomnt
The amounts shown as annual sinking fund requirements are
the principal amounts of bonds to be purchased or redeemed  1957.  . . . . . . . . .  . .     85,466,760
to meet each year's requirement, except that in the cases of the    1959 .  . . . . .                  17,921,305
31/2% Twenty Year Stock of 1951 and of 1954 the amount    19607 . . . . *                   . . .    2,148,578
shown is the amount of funds to be provided annually for pur-    1961.7. .  .   .,7
chase or redemption.                                        1961 . . . . . . . . . . .  .   23,667,970
The fcillowing table shows the aggregate principal amount of            Total  .  . .  . .  . . $221,353,191
the matLrities, sinking fund and redemption requirements each
.65.



APPENDIX F
Summary Statement of Loarts
JUNE 30, 1956
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY-See Notes A, C and G of Notes to Financial Statemenlts
Effective loans held by Bank
Members in whose territories                 Disbursed             Utndisbursed                              Loans not yet
loans have been made]                      portion                portion'              Total3              effective4
Australia.        ..........                        $ 222,050,482          $11,490,518         $233,541,000
Austria.      ...........11,300,574                                           10,546,426           21,847,000
Belgium.           ........71,949,382                                          7,854,384           79,803,766
Brazil.        .........145,887,297                                           37,789,920          183,677,217 
Burmna ............                                                             -                    -                   19,350,000
Ceylon.       ...........3,561,424                                            15,548,576           19,110,000 
Chile.         ...........18,178,811                                          13,301,645           31,480,456 
Colombia.         ..........46,735,914                                        33,586,527           80,322,441            16,500,000
Denmnark.   ..........36,580,000                                                                   36,580,000 
Ecuador.          ..........1,917,997                                          6,582,003            8,500,000             5,000,000
El Salvador.         .........15,089,740                                       7,280,260           22,370,000
Ethiopia.         ..........7,314,817                                           985,183             8,300,000 
Finland.           ..........33,803,527                                       5,761,402            39,564,929            15,000,000
France.        ...........230,586,773                                          5,200,227          235,787,000 
Guatemala.        ..........4,264,342                                         13,359,658           17,624,000 
Haiti  ............                                                             -                    -                    2,600,000
Honduras. ..........-                                                          3,328,000            3,328,000 
Iceland.      ...........5,751,640                                                                  5,751,640 
India.         ...........48,121.675                                         47,427,473            95,549,148            75.000,000
Italy.          ...........34,539,969                                        39,065,031            73,605,000            10,144,000
Japan.         ...........31,585,185                                          13,394,936           44,980,121 
Lebanon.   ..........-                                                       27,000,000            27,000,000 
Luxembourg. ...8,675,000                                                        -                   8,675,000 
Mexico.       .....97,620,595                                                28,065,895           125,686,490 
Netheriands.          .........65,049,985                                                          65,049,985 
Nicaragua.        ...5,356,626                                                9,616,374            14,973,000             3,200,000
Norway.   ...47,984,000                                                      25,000,000            72,984,000 
Pakistan.         ........38,127,482                                         29,607,076            67,734,558 
Panama.   ..........490,426                                                   4,450,000             4,940,426 
Paraguay.         ......2,180,361                                             2,319,639             4,500,000 
Peru.           .......12,850,274                                             19,055,226           31,905,500 
South Africa.        .........86,903,602                                     22,372,163           109,275,765 
Thailand.          ..........23,182,429                                       10,671,571           33,854,000 
Turkey.46,708,025                                                             13,572,975           60,281,000 
United Kingdom.48,388,980                                                      1,066,673           49,455,653            80,000,000
Uruguay.          ......29,845,277                                             3,675,723           33,521,000
Yugoslavia.           .........53,558,300                                      3,278,700           56,837,000
Totals .     .....                         1,536,140,911        $472,254,184        $2,008,395,095          $226,794,000
Less Exchange Adjustmnent...........                       . . ...6,587,648
52,001,807,447
1 Loans are made (a) to the member or (b) to a political sub-           SUMMARY OF CURRENCIES REPAYABLE
division or a public or a private enterprise in the territories of the      ON EFFECTIVE LOANS HELD BY BANK
member with the member's guarantee.
2 This does not include $4,629,143 of effective loans which the                      Currency                        Amount
Bank has agreed to sell. Of the undisbursed balance, the Bank has   Austrian Schillings.$   1,589,994
entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse $8,506,864.       Belgian Francs .....             .6,914,571
3Original principal amount of loans signed ..$2,720,108,464   Canadian Dollars  ....           :.   ....              78,919,551
DEDUCT:                                                            Danish Kroner. ..........                              2,427,402
Deutsche Marks.           .........                   13,832,421
(a) Cancellations and                                            Fec   rns...........                                 2,9,7
reunins  .    ..      5,76,16Italian Lire.                      ...........                        8,991,801
(b) Principal repayments                                        Japanese Yen.          ..........                        429,717
to the Bank    . .  .  .     164,346,672                   Mexican Pesos.         ..........                        800,000
(c) Loans sold or agreed to he                                   Netherlands Guilders.        ........                 29,178,788
sold of which $4,629,143                                   Norwegian Kroner.             ...288,156
has not yet been disbursed    267,796,381                  Pounds Sterling.           ....54,328,353
effectie  .  .   26,794,00  711,13,369 South African Pounds.    ........                   5,792,579
(d) Loans not yet effectiv_226_79               __0__71_713_36    Swedish Kronor.          .........                    3,278,251
$2,008,395,095   Swiss Francs.           ..........                    58,009,985
DEDUCT: Exchange adjujstment.            ....         6,587,648    United States Dollars.       ........1,245,661,967
Effective loans held by Bank.          .....$2,001,807,447   Disbursed portion of effective loans held by Bank . $1,536,140,911
4Agreements providing for these loans have been signed, but the   ADD: Undisbursed portion of effective loans
loans do not became effective and disbursements thereunder do not           held by Bank.          .......              472,254,184
start until the borrower and guarantor, if any, take certain action                                                  $,0,9,9
and furnish certain documents to the Bank. The Bank has agreed                                                       $,0,9,9
to sell $8,366,000 of loans not yet effective and thus the total of   DEDUCT: Exchange adjustment.           ....         6,587,648
both effective and non-effective loans sold or agreed to be sold is   Effective loans held by Bank.   ......$2,001,807,447
the equivalent of $276,162,381.
*66-



APPENDIX G
Notes to Financial Statements
JUNE 30, 1956
N O T E A                       extent in its territories, to maintain the value of the Bank's
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars  holdings of its 18%  currency, including the principal
have been translated into United States dollars:    amount of any notes substituted therefor, and the Bank
is required, if the par value of a member's currency is
(i) In the cases of 46 members, at the par values as  increased, to return to the member the increase in the
specified in the "Schedule of Par Values", published by  value of such 18% currency held by the Bank. The equiv-
the International Monetary Fund; and               alent of $4,547 is due from 1 member in order to maintain
the value of its currency as required under Article II,
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 12 members (Af-  Section 9.
ghanistan, Canada, China, France, Greece, Indonesia,
Israel, Italy, Korea, Peru, Thailand and Uruguay), the                 NOTE C
par values of whose currencies are not so specified, at  The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans and the
the rates used by such members in making payments  accrued charges for interest, commitment fee, service
of capital subscriptions to the Bank.             charge and loan commission are receivable in United
States dollars except the following amounts for which the
(iii) In the case of non-member currency, all Swiss  dollar equivalent is shown:
francs at the rate of 4.2975 francs to 1 United States
dollar.                                            Principal Outstanding  .  . . . . .  $283,891,296
Accrued Interest, Commitment
No representation is made that any of such currencies is   and Service Charges .  . . . . .    2,593,388
convertible into any other of such currencies at any rate  Accrued Loan Commissions  . . . .    615,310
or rates. See also Note B.                                    Total.$287,099,994
NOTE B
These currencies of the several members, and the notes                   NOTE D
issued by them in substitution for any part of such cur-  The amount of commissions received by the Bank on
rencies as permitted under the provisions of Article V,  loans made or guaranteed by it is required under Article
Section 12, are derived from the 18% of the subscriptions  IV, Section 6, to be set aside as a special reserve to be
to the capital stock of the Bank which is payable in the  kept available for meeting obligations of the Bank created
currencies of the respective members. Such 18% may be  by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all loans grant-
loaned by the Bank, and funds received by the Bank on  ed to date the effective rate of commission is 1%o per annum.
account of principal of loans made by the Bank out of
such currencies may be exchanged for other currencies or
reloaned, only with the approval in each case of the                     N0T   E
member whose currency is involved; provided, however,  Pursuant to action of the Board of Governors and Exec-
that, if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is  utive Directors the net income of the Bank has been
entirely called, such currencies may, without restriction by  allocated to a Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on
the members whose currencies are offered, be used or  Loans and Guarantees Made by the Bank; and the future
exchanged for the currencies required to meet contractual  net income of the Bank will, until further action by the
payments of interest, other charges or amortization on the  Executive Directors or the Board of Governors, be
Bank's own borrowings or to meet the Bank's liabilities  allocated to this reserve.
with respect to contractual payments on loans guaranteed
by it.                                                                   NOTE F
Under Article II, Section 9, each member is required, if  Subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet
the par value of its currency is reduced or if the foreign  the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or
exchange value of its currency depreciates to a significant  guaranteeing loans.
*67-



APPENDIX G
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
NOTE G                                               NOTE I
The Bank has sold under its guarantee $69,003,844 of  In terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness
loans of which amount $43,169,344 has been retired. The  in effect on July 1, 1944.
following table sets forth the maturities of the guaranteed
obligations outstanding:                                               GENERAL
As at June 30, 1956 applications for membership have
Period                          Amount   been received from the following countries:
July 1, 1956 to June 30, 1957 .$  .       2,742,500                                       Sbcito
July 1, 1957 to June 30, 1958             1,784,000    Country                            Subscription
July 1, 1958 to June 30, 1959             1,113,000
July 1, 1959 to June 30, 1960             1,000,000  Argentina   .  . . . . .  . . $150,000,000
July 1, 1960 to June 30, 1961 .  . . .    7,285,000  Viet Nam  .   . . . .  . . . $ 12,500,000
Thereafter  . . . . . . .  . .    11,910,000  The Sudan  .  . . .  . . . . To be determined
Total   . .                   $25,834,500  In addition applications for increases in share subscriptions
have been received from Brazil ($45,000,000) and Ecuador
NOTE H                          ($3,200,000).
The Bank has written off against income all discount and  Prior to June 30, 1956 the Board of Governors approved
premium on bonds sold or redeemed in the respective  the application of Viet Nam, which has until December 31,
years in which sale or redemption occurred.         1956 to complete action necessary to become a member.
*68.



APPENDIX H
Opinion of Independent Auditor
1000 VERMONT AVENUE, N. W.,
WASHINGTON 5, D. C.
August 6, 1956
To
INTERNATIONAL BANK
*                           FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
WASHINGTON, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 1956. Our examination
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other
auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes thereto, present fairly
the financial position of the Bank at June 30, 1956, expressed in United States
currency, and the results of its operations for the twelve months then ended,
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis
consistent with that of the preceding year.
PRICE WATERHOUSE & Co.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
COVERED BY THE FOREGOING OPINION
Appendix
Balance Sheet  .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .  A
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses .  . .  . .  .      B
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank   .  .  . . .  . .     C
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power.    D
Funded Debt of the Bank   .  .  .  . . .  . .  . .  .  .         E
Summary Statement of Loans  .  . .  .  . .  .  . .  . .          F
Notes to Financial Statements  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .     G
*69-



APPENDIX I
Administrative Budget
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1957
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1957, as prepared by the
President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. For purposes of
comparison, there are also outlined below the administrative expenses incurred during the fiscal years ended June 30, 1955,
and 1956.
Actuial Expenses                              Budget
1955                     1956                          1957
BOARD OF GOVERNORS . . . .  . .                   $ 193,037                 $ 348,756                     $ 214,000
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS . .  .  .  .  .                 372,381                    387,476                      420,000
STAFF
Personal Services   . .  .  .  .  .   3,247,322                 3,581,070                     3,811,500
Staff Benefits .361,456                                           392,760                      432,500
Travel .557,046                                                   595,036                      608,000
Consultants .176,724                                              237,434                      200,000
Representation .57,376   4,399,924                                 49,405   4,855,705           53,000   5,105,000
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Fees & Compensation .  .  .  .  .      140,003                    126,062                      120,000
Supplies & Materials  .  .  .  .  .     49,989                     59,899                       60,000
Rents & Maintenance .  .  .  . .       536,206                    630,165                      625,000
Communications .. . . .                165,993                    184,712                      186,000
Furniture & Equipment  .  .  . .        67,596                     75,647                       65,000
Printing .60,593                                                   85,457                       78,000
Books & Library Service  .  .  .  .     68,630                     74,159                       77,500
Insurance .24,501                                                  28,728                       23,000
Other .9,027   1,122,538                                            8,363   1,273,192           10,000   1,244,500
CONTINGENCY  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .                   -                          -                           100,000
Total .$6,087,880                                                 $6,865,129                    $7,083,500
SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES
General Survey Missions  .  .  .  .    208,172                    131,449                      217,900
Resident Representatives  .  .  . .     83,994                     93,534                      131,600
Economic Development Institute .  .      10,511                    71,258                       97,000
Training Programs . .  .  .  .  .       36,173                     11,502                       31,000
Indus Basin Discussions  .  .  .  .    147,779                    196,918                      156,000
Other Advisory Services  .  .  .  .     73,766                     66,255                       53,500
Total  ...  .         .   .     .         560,395                    570,916                      687,000
Grand Total .  .  .  .  .               $6,648,275                $7,436,045                    $7,770,500
No estimate has been made of bond registration, issuance and other financial expenditure for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1957. The amount of bonds which may be issued by the Bank during the year is not known. These expenditures
may amount to about $100,000, exclusive of commissions and premiums, for each $100 million of bonds which the Bank
may issue.
.70.



APPENDIX J
Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries
JUNE 30, 1956
Voting power                           Subscriptions
Number of           Percent of               Amount          Percent of
Member Government                        votes                total          (in millions of dollars)  total
Afghanistan ........                                      350                .33                     10.0                .11
Australia ....... .                                     2,250               2.14                    200.0               2.21
Austria  ...      .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  750           .71                     50.0                .55
Belgium  ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  2,500        2.38                    225.0               2.49
Bolivia   ...     .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  320           .30                      7.0                .08
Brazil .............   .                                1,300                1.24                   105.0               1.16
Burma   ...       .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  400           .38                     15.0                .17
Canada  ...  .            .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  3,500        3.33                    325.0               3.59
Ceylon   ...      .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  400           .38                     15.0                .17
Chile ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .     .  600           .57                     35.0                .39
China ............. .   6,250                                                5.95                   600.0               6.63
Colombia    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           600                 .57                     35.0                .39
Costa Rica  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           270                 .26                      2.0                .02
Cuba ...  .            .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .     .  600           .57                     35.0                .39
Denmark ............ .    930                                                .88                     68.0                .75
Dominican Republic   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           270                 .26                      2.0                .02
Ecuador ...  .            .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  282           .27                      3.2                .03
Egypt ............. .    783                                                 .75                     53.3                .59
El Salvador .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           260                 .25                      1.0                .01
Ethiopia .  ......             ......                    280                 .27                      3.0                .03
Finland ............                                     630                  .60                    38.0                .42
France  ............                                    5,500                5.24                   525.0                5.80
Germany .       . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          3,550                3.38                   330.0               3.65
Greece   ...  .           .     ....   .     .   .     .  500                .48                     25.0                .28
Guatemala  ...       .       .   .....   .       .     .  270                .26                      2.0                .02
Haiti ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  270          .26                      2.0                .02
Honduras .  ... ...... .. .    260                                           .25                      1.0                .01
Iceland   ...     .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  260           .25                      1.0                .01
India ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  4,250       4.05                   400.0                4.42
Indonesia    ...     .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  1,350          1.29                   110.0               1.23
Iran  ...  .          .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  586           .56                     33.6                .37
Iraq  ...    .        .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .     .  310            .29                      6.0                .07
Israel ...   .         .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  295          .28                      4.5                .05
Italy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         2,050                1.95                   180.0                1.99
Japan ...   ...........   .                             2,750                2.62                   250.0                2.76
Jordan   ...      .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  280           .27                      3.0                .03
Korea    ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  375           .36                     12.5                .14
Lebanon ...       .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  295           .28                      4.5                .05
Luxembourg ........... .                                  350                .33                     10.0                .11
Mexico   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           900                 .86                     65.0                .72
Netherlands ...      .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  3,000          2.86                   275.0               3.04
Nicaragua   ...      .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  258            .24                       .8                .01
Norway  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .             750                .71                     50.0                .55
Pakistan  ...     .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  1,250         1.19                   100.0                1.10
Panama  ...       .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  252           .24                       .2                   1
Paraguay ............ .    264                                               .25                      1.4                .01
Peru  ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .     .  425           .40                     17.5                .19
Philippines  ...     .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  400            .38                     15.0                .17
Sweden  ...       .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  1,250         1.19                   100.0                1.10
Syria ...    .         .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .     .  315           .30                      6.5                .07
Thailand ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  375           .36                     12.5                .14
Turkey   ...  .           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  680           .65                     43.0                .47
Union of South Africa .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         1,250                1.19                   100.0                1.10
United Kingdom    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13,250                    12.62                 1,300.0              14.36
United States   .  .  .  .  I  .  .  .  .  .  .    32,000                  30.47                  3,175.0              35.08
Uruguay ...  .            .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  355           .34                     10.5                .12
Venezuela   ...      .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  355            .34                     10.5                .12
Yugoslavia  ...      .       .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  650            .62                     40.0                .44
Totals  ...      .      .   .   .   .   .     .    105,005     100.00                  9,050.5             100.00
ILess than .005 percent
*71.



APPENDIX K
Governors and Alternates
JUNE 30, 1956
Member Government                                     Governor                                    Alternate
Afghanistan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Abdul Malik                                     Abdul Karim Hakimi
Australia  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Sir Arthur William Fadden                      Sir Roland Wilson
Austria    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Reinhard Kamitz                                Wilhelm Teufenstein
Belgium    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Henri Liebaert                                 Maurice Frere
Bolivia .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Augusto Cuadros Sanchez                        Fernando Pou Munt
Brazil .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Eugenio Gudin                                   Prudente de Moraes Neto
Burma .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    U Tin                                            U Kyaw Nyun
Canada   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Walter E. Harris                                 A. F. W. Plumptre
Ceylon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Stanley de Zoysa                                R. S. S. Gunewardene
Chile .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        Arturo Maschke                              Felipe Herrera
China  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Peh-Yuan Hsu                                    Tse-kai Chang
Colohmbia .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Luis Angel Arango                               Eduardo Arias Robledo
Costa: Rica   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Angel Coronas                                  Mario Fernandez
Cuba  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                                     Joaquin E. Meyer
Denmark  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Svend Nielsen                                    Hakon Jespersen
Dominican Republic .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Milton Messina                                  Eudaldo Troncoso Pou
Ecuador  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Luis Ernesto Borja                               Guillermo Perez-Chiriboga
Egypt .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Ahmed Zaki Saad                                  Albert Mansour
El Salvador  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Catalino Herrera                                Luis Escalante-Arce
Ethiopia  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Menasse Lemma
Finland   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Klaus Waris                                     Ralf Torngren
France .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Minister of Finance                             Pierre Mendes-France
Germany  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Ludwig Erhard                                    Fritz Schaeffer
Greece .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Demetrios Chelmis                               J. S. Pesmazoglu
Guatemala    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Gustavo Miron Porras                            Gabriel Orellana
Haiti  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Clement Jumelle                                 Christian Aime
Honduras .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Guillermo Lopez Rodezno                          Rafael Callejas H.
Iceland .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Jon Arnason                                    Vilhjalmur Thor
India .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  Chintaman D. Deshmukh                                         Benegal Rama Rau
Indonesia .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Ong Eng Die                                     Loekman Hakim
Iran   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Ali Asghar Nasser                               Djalaleddin Aghili
Iraq   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Sayid Khalil Kenna                              Mudhaffer Hussien Jamil
Israel  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    David Horowitz                                 Martin Rosenbluth
Italy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Donato Menichella                              Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
Japan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Hisato Ichimada                                 Eikichi Araki
Jordan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Hamad Farhan                                    Yacoub Iwais
Korea .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Yu Taik Kim                                      Young Chan Kim
Lebanon   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Andre Tueni                                     Raja Himadeh
Luxembourg  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Pierre Werner                                    Rene Franck
Mexico    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Antonio Carrillo Flores                         Jose Hernandez Delgado
Netherlands  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    J. van de Kieft                                 A. M. de Jong
Nicaragua .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa                        Alejandro Baca Munoz
Norway   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Arne Skaug                                       Carsten Nielsen
Pakistan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Syed Amjad Ali                                 Vaqar Ahmed
Panama   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    J. J. Vallarino
Paraguay  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Pedro A. Caballero                              Julio C. Kolberg
Peru   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Fernando Berckemeyer                            Emilio Foley
Philippines   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Miguel Cuaderno Sr.                            Emilio Abello
Sweden    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    N. G. Lange                                     A. Lundgren
Syria  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Husni A. Sawwaf                                 Adnan Farra
Thailand  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Serm Vinicchayakul                              Puey Ungphakorn
Turkey,.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Nedim Okmen                                     Sait Naci Ergin
Union of South Africa  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Eric Hendrik Louw                              M. H. de Kock
United Kingdom  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Harold Macnillan                                Sir Leslie Rowan
United States .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    George M. Humphrey                             Herbert V. Prochnow
Uruguay .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         Nilo Berchesi                               Roberto Ferber
Venezuela .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Jose Joaquin Gonzalez-Gorrondona, Jr.           Alejandro J. Huizi-Aguiar
Yugoslavia   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    Milentije Popovic                               Vojin Guzina
*72-



APPENDIX L
Execuitive Directors and Alternates and their Voting Power
JUNE 30, 1956
Directors                   Alternates
Casting the                Votes by       Total
APPOINTED                                    votes of                  country        votes
Andrew N. Overby             John S. Hooker               United States                32,000        32,000
Viscount Harcourt            David 13. Pitblado           United Kingdom               13,250        13,250
Kan Lee                                                   China                         6,250         6,250
Roger Hcippenot              Maurice Perouse              France                        5,500         5,500
G. R. Kamat                  J. S. Raj                    India                         4,250         4,250
ELECTED
Luis Machado                 Jorge A. Montealegre         Mexico                          900
(Cuba)                       (Nicaragua)                Cuba                            600
Peru                           425
Uruguay                         355
Venezuela                       355
Costa Rica                      270
Dominican Republic              270         4,475
Guatemala                       270
El Salvador                     260
Honduras                        260
Nicaragua                       258
Panama                          252
Thomas Basyn                 Hans Kloss                   Belgium                       2,500
(Belgium)                    (Austria)                  Austria                         750         4,280
Turkey                          6804,8
Luxembourg                      350
Mohammad Shoaib              Ali Akbar Khosropur          Pakistan                      1,250
(Pakistan)                   (Iran)                     Egypt                           783
Iran                            586
Syria                           315409
Iraq                            310         4.099
Lebanon                        295
Ethiopia                        280
Jordan                          280
Jorge Mejia-Palacio          Alfonso Patino-Rosselli      Brazil                        1,300
(Colombia)                   (Colombia)                 Chile                           600
Colombia                        600
Philippines                     400         4,036
Bolivia                         3204,3
Ecuador                         282
Haiti                           270 
Paraguay                        2641
.73.



APPENDIX L (continued)
Executive Directors and Alternates and their Voting Power
JUNE 30, 1956
Directors                      Alternates
Casting the                Votes by       Total
ELECTED                                   votes of                  country        votes
P. Lieftinck                A. Tasic                     Netherlands                   3,000
(Netherlands)               (Yugoslavia)               Yugoslavia                     650          3,945
Israel                         295
Takeo Yumoto                Boonma Wongswan              Japan                         2,750
(Japan)                     (Thailand)                 Burma                          400
Ceylon                         400          3,925
Thailand                       375
Soetikno Slamet             Carlo Gragnani*              Italy                         2,050
(Indonesia)                 (Italy)                    Indonesia                     1,350         3,900
Greece                         500
Jon Arnason                 Torfinn Oftedal              Sweden                        1,250
(Iceland)                   (Norivay)                  Denmark                        930
Norway                         750          3,820
Finland                        630
Iceland                        260
Otto Donner                 H. W. Lueck                  Germany                       3,550         3,550
(Germany)                   (Germany)
L. H. E. Bury               B. B. Callaghan              Australia                     2,250         3,500
(Australia)                 (Australia)                Union of South Africa         1,250
Louis Rasminsky             J. H. Warren                 Canada                        3,500         3,500
(Canada)                    (Canada)
* Temporary
In addition to the Executive Directors and Alternates shown in the foregoing list, the
following have also served as Executive Director or Alternate since June 30, 1955:
Executive Director                  End of Period of Service
D. Crena de Iongh (Netherlands)     September 30, 1955
Alternate Executive Directors       End of Period of Service
Martin T. Flett (United Kingdom)    February 15, 1956
Richard L. Sharp (United Kingdom)   March 25, 1956
V. G. Pendharker (India)            June 5, 1956
Julio E. Heurtematte (Panama)       March 13, 1956
William Tennekoon (Ceylon)         October 31, 1955
Felice Pick (Italy)                January 20, 1956
Johan Cappelen (Norway)             May 3, 1956
.74.



APPENDIX M
Principal Officers of the Bank
EUGENE R. BLACK ............                   President
W. A. B. ILIF ........F . .................. Vice President
J. BURKE KNAPP .......................... Vice President
DAVIDSON SOMMERS ........................ Vice President
and General Coounsel
LEONARD B. RIST                                                    GEORGE L. MARTIN
Director, Economlic Staff                                          Director of Marketing
IRICHARD H. DEMUTH                                                 HENRY W. RILEY
Director, Technical Assistance and Liaison Staff                   Treasurer
S. R. COPE                                                         M. M. MENDELS
Director of Operations-Europe, Africa and Australasia              Secretary
JOSEPH RUCINSKI                                                     A. BROCHES
Director of Operations-Asia and Middle East                        Director, Legal Department
ORVIs A. SCHMIDT                                                   WILLIAM F. HOWELL
Director of Operations-Western Hemnisphere                         Director of Administration
SIMON ALDEWERELD                                                   HAROLD N. GRAVES, JR.
Director of Technical Operations                                   Director of Information
BRIAN H. COLQIJHOUN
Engineering Adviser
This list includes the new appointments made on July 24, 1956, following the appointment
of Robert L. Garner as the first President of the new International Finance Corporation.
*75.



W 0 R L D
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



F              )"                                                                                                                                                                          , 4 r



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P 
, i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4                                                                                ..,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



