                     91155




POVERTY       PROSPERITY




ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Contents
2 World Bank Group 2014 Summary Results

2 Message from the President of the World Bank
  Group and Chairman of the Board of Executive
  Directors

8 Message from the Board of Executive Directors

12 Building a “Solutions World Bank Group”

14 The World Bank: Promoting Opportunity, Growth,
   and Prosperity

29 The Regions

54 The Roles of IBRD and IDA

58 Operational Summary, Fiscal 2010–14

59 World Bank Lending by Theme and Sector,
   Fiscal 2010–14

60 Committed to Results




This Annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2013, to June 30,
2014, has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International
Development Association (IDA)—collectively known as the World Bank—
in accordance with the respective bylaws of the two institutions. Dr.
Jim Yong Kim, President of the World Bank Group and Chairman of the
Board of Executive Directors, has submitted this report, together with the
accompanying administrative budgets and audited nancial statements, to
the Board of Governors.

Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.

All dollar amounts used in this Annual Report are current U.S. dollars unless
otherwise speci ed. As a result of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to
totals, and percentages in gures may not add to 100. Throughout this report,
the terms “World Bank” and “Bank” refer to IBRD and IDA. “World Bank Group”
and “Bank Group” refer collectively to IBRD, IDA, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID.
                                                                                                                                                                         THE REGIONS

                                                                                                                                                                •       Latin America and th
                                                                                                                                                        a                                    e                           Car
                                                                                                                                              si
                                                                                                                                        a l A                                                                                   ibb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ea
                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                   nt                                   LOBAL PRACTICES                                                        n
                                                                                                                                Ce                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •
                                                                                                                      a   nd                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                e                                                            Health, Nutrition,                                                                id
                                                                                                         r   op                                                               and Population                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        le
                                                                                                    Eu                                           nd
                                                                                                                                           ance a                                                                            Pov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                  s                                                                                                                                  st
                                                                                             •                                          Fin arket                                                                                   y
                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                          Macroeconomics and




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Soci
                                                                                                                                                                           Fiscal Management
                                                                                      c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   al P
                                                                                   fi


                                                                                                                                                         ce




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          d
                                                                                                                                                      nan                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and otect                                     So
                                                                               ci



                                                                                                                                                     r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                  ove                                                                 Lab ion
                                                                            Pa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              or
                                                                                                              d                               G                                                                          or                                a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cia d R
                                                                                                                                                                                            G SOLUTI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  th
                                                                                                                  s                                                              TTIN
                                                                                                  ct n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l, U esi
                                                                           d




                                                                                                                                                                                                          ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                               tra a
                                                                                                                                                                         CU
                                                                                                    ive
                                                                       an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                AR
                                                                                             Ex ergy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rb lien
                                                                                                                                                                 S                         lence • G ender




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Af
                                                                                                                                 d                             S                     V i o                            EA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an ce
                                                                                                                                                                                an d
                                                                                                                               an ces                      O                t ,                            • Jo                                C
                                                                                               En




                                                                                                                                                                          c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ri
                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                      ia




                                                                                                                                                                        i                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,R
                                                                                                                                  r                 C             n f l                                         b s •




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tr etit
                                                                                                                                                               Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               om
                                                                                                                     Re ent




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ura




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ca
                                                                  As




                                                                                                                                                             ,                                                        Pu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ad ive
                                                                                                                         u                            ilit
                                                                                                                                                           y                                                             bl
                                                                                                                       so




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  p
                                                                                                               tur nm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e a ne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ic-
                                                                                                                                                   ag
                                                                 st




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                             Na viro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nd ss
                                                                                                                                              Fr                                                                                    ri
                                                                                                                  al




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            •
                                                                 Ea




                                                                                                               En




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     va
                                                                                                                                          •
                                                                                                                                        ge




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sou
                                                                                                                                    an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pa
                                                            •




                                                                                                                                  Ch




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r tn




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                th A
                                                                                     lture




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ers
                                                                                                                                ate




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Trans T
                                                          a




                                                                                                       ion




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               hip




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and I
                                                                                                                           Clim
                                                         Afric




                                                                               Agricu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Water
                                                                                                 Educat




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               port
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C
                                                          END EXTREME POVERTY                                                                                                                                                             BOOST SHARED PROSPERITY
Global share of people living on less than $1.25 a day




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Boost the income growth of the bottom 40%
                                                                                                                                                         “ To end extreme poverty by 2030,
                                                         36%
                                                                                                                                                           1 million people each week will
                                                                                                                                                           have to lift themselves out of
                                                                                        18%
                                                                                                                                                           poverty. That’s each week for the
                                                                                                                                                           next 16 years. And we strongly
                                                                                                                                                           believe this can happen.”
                                                                                                                               3%                                      — Jim Yong Kim


                                                         1990                      2010                                   2030                                                                                                       OPPORTUNITY                        INCLUSION                      SUSTAINABILITY
Strong, Inclusive, Sustainable Growth

The progress in poverty reduction of the past 20 years presents the opportunity
to envision a world free of poverty within a generation. Nonetheless, more than
1 billion people worldwide remain living in extreme poverty—on less than
$1.25 a day. Challenges to poverty reduction are increasingly differentiated
and vary across countries and regions, and solutions will need to take on
multisectoral approaches. Greater progress is achieved when investments—
including improving the environment for private investment and productivity
growth, building human capital, and promoting climate-smart growth—are
well designed, efforts are coordinated across regions and sectors, and growth
is inclusive. Combining concern for greater equity with the need for growth will
help to ensure that the bottom 40 percent of society will share in prosperity.
    The depth and breadth of the World Bank Group’s sectoral knowledge,
along with its range of financial and technical assistance instruments, can
help countries address these challenges. This year, the World Bank Group has
undergone an historic institutional change. The new Global Practices and Cross-
Cutting Solution Areas, for example, will improve the sharing of knowledge
and complement the Bank Group’s country-based engagement model and the
existing strengths of its regional units and country offices. The implementation
of these changes creates a more nimble global structure and improves the World
Bank Group’s ability to help countries make progress toward the twin goals of
ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity.
    This Annual Report focuses on two of the World Bank Group’s institutions:
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the
International Development Association (IDA), collectively known as the World
Bank. We encourage you to read this report to learn more about the work of the
World Bank, the activities and outcomes it supports in the six regions, and the
results of that work in helping to overcome poverty and create opportunities
for people in developing countries. On the enclosed CD-ROM, you will find the
full audited Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis
documents for IBRD and IDA; comprehensive lending and organizational data;
the April 2014 World Bank Group and World Bank Corporate Scorecards; and the
2014 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index for the World Bank.
    Multiple links are provided throughout the text to connect you with even
more information. We also invite you to visit the following websites to broaden
your understanding of how the World Bank partners with countries to end
extreme poverty, boost shared prosperity, and achieve sustainable results.


   	 Annual Report 2014: worldbank.org/annualreport2014
   	 Corporate Scorecard: worldbank.org/corporatescorecard
   	 World Bank Results: worldbank.org/results
   	 World Bank Open Data: data.worldbank.org
   	 Corporate Responsibility: crinfo.worldbank.org
World Bank Group
2014 Summary Results


Message from the
President of the World
Bank Group and Chairman
of the Board of Executive
Directors




Two years ago, the World Bank Group began down a path of renewal and
change to prepare our organization to take on its toughest challenge
yet—to end extreme poverty in a single generation. At the 213 Spring
Meetings, we adopted two ambitious goals: to end extreme poverty by
23 and to boost shared prosperity for the poorest 4 percent in
developing countries.

To make us fit for this purpose, at our Annual Meetings last October, our Board of Governors
approved the first strategy for the entire World Bank Group. This strategy focuses on delivery of
transformational solutions, marshals our combined resources more effectively, and accelerates our
collaboration with the private sector and other development partners.
     The challenge is immense. To reach our end poverty goal, we have to help tens of millions of
people lift themselves out of poverty each year. It is a daunting task, but if we effectively implement
our strategy, we know we can achieve it.
     In this Annual Report, you will learn how we have been implementing the strategy over the
past year. Our four principal institutions—the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance
Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) —now work
together as one World Bank Group to accomplish our mission.
     We have made great progress. Engagement with our country partners is now more selective,
as we work closely with them to identify the best opportunities to reach our common goals. Our
new Global Practices and Cross-Cutting Solution Areas are improving our ability to bring our
clients the best global knowledge to solve their toughest challenges—and with fewer
transaction costs.




2      T H E W O R L D B A N K A N N UA L R E P O R T 2014
      Our financial structure has been updated
and strengthened, growing our financial
capacity while reducing expenditures and           “We are focused on
directing the savings to our clients. This year,
the World Bank Group committed $65.6
billion in loans, grants, equity investments,       improving the lives of
and guarantees to its members and private
businesses. Commitments from IBRD totaled           roughly a billion people
$18.6 billion, while IDA, the World Bank’s
fund for the poorest, made commitments of
$22.2 billion. Thanks to a record $52 billion
                                                    now living in extreme
replenishment pledged by donors for the next
three years, IDA will continue to make crucial      poverty, and seek to build
investments in people so that the benefits of
growth are shared by all.
      Over the past two decades, 90 percent of
                                                    a world that is more
new jobs were created by the private sector—
and good jobs were by far the most effective        sustainable, prosperous,
path to escaping poverty. Our private sector
arm IFC and our political risk insurance arm
MIGA are ramping up their efforts to leverage
                                                    and just—for all of us.”
private sector investment and create more jobs
and economic opportunities for the poor. This
year, IFC provided more than $22 billion in financing for private sector development, about
$5 billion of which was mobilized from investment partners. MIGA issued $3.2 billion in
political risk and credit enhancement guarantees underpinning investments, including those
in transformational projects.
      To have a lasting impact, our investments have to be environmentally sustainable. If we don’t
confront climate change, we won’t end extreme poverty. The poor are the first impacted and suffer
the most from the effects of climate change. Last year, we announced our plan to address climate
change, and we are making investments that will protect our environment while creating a more
sustainable future for our children and grandchildren.
      The World Bank Group leadership and staff are united in pursuing our urgent mission, and
are implementing the critical changes needed to deliver results for our clients. We are focused on
improving the lives of roughly a billion people now living in extreme poverty, and seek to build a
world that is more sustainable, prosperous, and just—for all of us.




DR. JIM YONG KIM
President of the World Bank Group and
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors




                                                                                                      3
Global Commitments


The World Bank Group’s
support for developing
countries grew sharply over
the past year as the
organization focused on
delivering results more
quickly, increasing its
relevance for its clients and
partners, and bringing
global solutions to local
challenges.                                                Latin America and the Caribbean

                                                           $9.8 billion




4    T H E W O R L D B A N K A N N UA L R E P O R T 2014
                       Europe and Central Asia

                        $11.0 billion                               East Asia and Pacific

                                                                    $10.0 billion




               Middle East and North Africa

                $4.8 billion
                                                     South Asia

                                                     $13.6 billion
Sub-Saharan Africa

$16.1 billion




65.6
$                                                in loans, grants, equity
                                                 investments, and guarantees
                                                 to partner countries and
                                                 private businesses.

billion                                          Total includes multiregional and global
                                                 projects. Regional breakdowns reflect
                                                 World Bank country classifications.

                                                                                            5
Our Impact


The entire World Bank Group leveraged its strengths, expertise, and
resources to help countries and other partners make a real impact
on development—by driving economic growth, promoting
inclusiveness, and ensuring sustainability.


      Driving economic                      Promoting                         Ensuring
           growth                          inclusiveness                    sustainability
            IBRD/IDA                           IBRD/IDA                         IBRD/IDA


       95,000
            kilometers
                                            250.9million
                                                                               903million
     of roads constructed and            people received health,          tons of CO2 equivalent
           rehabilitated                nutrition, and population        emissions expected to be
                                                 services                   reduced annually



            15.3
               million
                                               37.4
                                                million
                                                                                  57
                                                                                  countries
    people and micro, small, and     beneficiaries covered by social      with strengthened public
    medium enterprises reached           safety net programs           financial management systems
       with financial services


                IFC                                IFC                             IFC


             2.6                                2.9                              5.5
              million                           million                           million
           jobs provided                    farmers assisted             metric tons of greenhouse
                                                                         emissions expected to be
                                                                                  reduced


              94                                2.5                           $18.7
           million                             million                           billion
customers supplied with power,             students received             in government revenues
       water, and gas                     educational benefits           generated by IFC clients


              MIGA                                MIGA                            MIGA


        52,100                                   47                              3.3
               jobs                              million                         million
             provided                        people provided                 people provided
                                             access to power               access to clean water


            $6.1                                  15                            $1.6
              billion                           million                          billion
        new business loans                  people provided              in government revenues
      issued by MIGA clients               access to transport          generated by MIGA clients




6        T H E W O R L D B A N K A N N UA L R E P O R T 2014
The Institutions of the
World Bank Group

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Lends to governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries

International Development Association (IDA)
Provides interest-free loans, or credits, and grants to governments of the poorest countries

International Finance Corporation (IFC)
Provides loans, equity, and advisory services to stimulate private sector investment in
developing countries

Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
Provides political risk insurance or guarantees against losses caused by noncommercial risk to
facilitate foreign direct investment in developing countries

International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
Provides international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes




World Bank Group Financing for Partner Countries
BY FISCAL YEAR
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

	                                           2014	2013	2012	2011	2010
World Bank Group	
Commitmentsa	                           65,579	57,587	 57,450	 61,120	76,482
Disbursementsb	                         44,399	40,370	42,390	42,028	50,234
IBRD
Commitments	                            18,604	15,249	20,582	26,737	 44,197
Disbursements	                          18,761	15,830	19,777	21,879	28,855
IDA
Commitments	                            22,239	16,298	14,753	16,269	14,550
Disbursements	                          13,432	11,228	 11,061	10,282	11,460
IFC
Commitmentsc	                            17,261	18,349	15,462	 12,186	12,664
Disbursements	                            8,904	9,971	7,891	6,715	6,793
MIGA
Gross issuance	                           3,155	          2,781	           2,657	     2,099	         1,464

Recipient-Executed Trust Funds
Commitments	                              4,319	4,910	3,996	3,829	3,607
Disbursements	                            3,302	3,341	3,571	 3,152	 3,126
a.  Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, Recipient-Executed Trust Funds (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross issuance.
RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants, and therefore total WBG commitments differ from
the amount reported in the WBG Corporate Scorecard, which includes only a subset of trust funded activities.
b.  Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
c.  IFC’s own account, not including funds mobilized from third parties.




                                                                                                               7
Seated (left to right): Arnaud Delaunay (alternate), France; Jörg Frieden, Switzerland; Gwen Hines, United
Kingdom; Merza Hasan (Dean), Kuwait; Denny H. Kalyalya, Zambia; Satu Santala, Finland; Piero Cipollone, Italy;
Wilhelm Rissmann (alternate), Germany




Message from the
Board of Executive Directors
The 25 resident Executive Directors, representing the World Bank’s 188 member countries,
are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the World Bank under delegated
powers from the Board of Governors; the World Bank comprises both the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association
(IDA). As provided in the Articles of Agreement, 5 Executive Directors are appointed by each
of the five members having the largest number of shares; 20 Executive Directors are elected
by other member countries to form constituencies in an election process every two years. The
Executive Directors select a President, who serves as Chairman of the Board. The current Board
was elected or appointed on November 1, 2012.
    Executive Directors fulfill an important role in deciding on the policies that guide the
general operations of the World Bank and its strategic direction, and they represent member
countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They consider and decide on proposals made by the
President for IBRD and IDA loans, credits, and guarantees; new policies; the administrative
budget; and other financial matters. They also discuss country assistance strategies—the
central tool with which management and the Board review and guide the World Bank Group’s
support for a country’s development programs. They are responsible for presenting to the
Board of Governors an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and the World Bank’s
Annual Report on fiscal year results.
    Executive Directors serve on one or more standing committees: the Audit Committee,
the Budget Committee, the Committee on Development Effectiveness, the Committee
on Governance and Administrative Matters, and the Human Resources Committee. These
committees help the Board to discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth
examinations of policies and practices. The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee meets
to discuss the Board’s strategic work program.
    Directors periodically travel to member countries to gain firsthand knowledge about a
country’s economic and social challenges, visit project activities financed by the World Bank
Group, and discuss with government officials their assessment of the collaboration with the
Bank Group. Among the stakeholders, they meet with government officials, beneficiaries,
representatives of nongovernmental organizations, other development partners, and the



8       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Standing (left to right): Frank Heemskerk, Netherlands; Omar Bougara, Algeria; Vadim Grishin, Russian Federation;
Roberto B. Tan, Philippines; Ibrahim M. Alturki (alternate), Saudi Arabia; Boonchai Charassangsomboon (alternate),
Thailand; Alister Smith, Canada; Gulsum Yazganarikan (alternate), Turkey; Agapito Mendes Dias, São Tomé and
Príncipe; Hideaki Suzuki, Japan; Shixin Chen, China; Mansur Muhtar, Nigeria; Mohammad Tareque (alternate),
Bangladesh; Juan José Bravo, Mexico; Michael Willcock, Australia; Sara Aviel (alternate), United States

Not pictured: César Guido Forcieri, Argentina




business community. They also meet with country Bank staff. In 2014, Directors visited the Arab
Republic of Egypt, Argentina, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Malaysia, Nepal, and Tunisia.
   The Board, through its committees, regularly engages on the effectiveness of the World
Bank Group’s activities with the independent Inspection Panel and Independent Evaluation
Group—which report directly to the Board—as well as with the Internal Audit Department
and the external auditor.

Board achievements of 2014
Highlights of the committees’ work this year include the Audit Committee’s extensive
consultation with management on measures to improve the financial sustainability and
lending capacity of the World Bank, and the Budget Committee’s support to the Bank’s new
budget process and the guidance the committee provided on the expenditure review. This
review is meant to optimize the cost structure for the World Bank Group, as well as enhance its
financial sustainability and expand its capacity.
     Milestones of the work of the Committee on Development Effectiveness involved
discussions on the “New Approach to Country Engagement” paper, the operational policy
on guarantees, the environmental and social risk management of financial intermediaries,
and various evaluations of the development effectiveness of World Bank Group operational
programs and activities. Important work at the Committee on Governance and Administrative
Matters covered the World Bank’s policy and procedure framework, the access to information
policy as it pertains to Board records, and an annual review of the principles-based approach
to selecting projects for Board discussion. The Human Resources Committee considered the
human resources strategy and various policies to ensure successful implementation of the
World Bank Group Strategy and the internal reforms agenda as related to compensation; talent
management; and staff performance, diversity, and leadership.
     The core of the Board’s engagement centered on the global objectives of poverty
reduction and shared prosperity, but it encompassed other significant areas, such as managing
risk for development in the World Development Report 2014, the Millennium Development Goals



                                                                                                             9
and post-2015 development framework, directions for the World Bank Group’s energy sector
in “Toward a Sustainable Energy Future for All,” changes to the Doing Business report, as well as
the climate challenge. The Board also looks forward to the World Development Report 2015 on
mind and mindsets.
     The Executive Directors discussed financial affairs such as the revenue, cost, and capacity
measures to improve margins for maneuver; the record replenishment of IDA17; the Bank’s
Equity Management Framework to expand capacity to meet greater client demands; Trust
Fund reforms; the Group of 20 meetings; and the Global Infrastructure Facility. The Board also
deliberated on important issues related to the management and implementation of the new
World Bank Group Strategy in the context of supporting the goals on poverty and prosperity.
Such issues include the development of a new World Bank Group Corporate Scorecard and
redesign of the current World Bank Corporate Scorecard, to jointly serve as the pinnacle of a
revamped, results-focused performance management system; a new approach to country
engagements, including the Country Partnership Frameworks; Global Practices and Cross-
Cutting Solution Areas; and future directions of IFC and MIGA.
     Furthermore, the Executive Directors approved several crisis or emergency responses
for Bangladesh, the Philippines, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Tonga, and West
Bank and Gaza; and discussed the fragile situations in the Sahel, South Sudan, and Ukraine
while also approving specific operations. They were kept abreast of, and deliberated over,
the challenges and opportunities in all the Bank’s regions through the regional updates.
The Board also welcomed the increased collaboration across the World Bank, IFC, and MIGA,
which demonstrated the Bank Group’s unique capacity to leverage policy engagements and
private sector investments to take on complex development challenges, often in a regional
context. They welcomed numerous joint World Bank-IFC-MIGA proposals to address energy
infrastructure needs in Africa, Central and South Asia, and the Middle East.
     The Board also discussed several papers that were considered by the Board of Governors
during the Annual and Spring Meetings, including “Mainstreaming Disaster Risk Management
in World Bank Group Operations,” “Growth in the Post-Crisis Global Economy,” “Implementation
of the Gender Equality Agenda,” and the World Bank Group Strategy.
     Overall, the Board approved approximately $40.8 billion in financial assistance in fiscal
year 2014, comprising about $18.6 billion in IBRD lending and over $22.2 billion in IDA support.
The Directors also reviewed 31 Country Partnership Strategy products, 30 of which were
prepared jointly with IFC. The Board approved an administrative budget for the World Bank
of $2.6 billion.




10      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
IBRD and IDA: Fiscal 2014 Facts and Figures

TABLE 1
TOP–10 COUNTRY BORROWERS
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

IBRD                                                     IDA
Country	                      Commitment                 Country	Commitment

Brazil	 2,019                                            India	 3,134
India	1,975                                              Pakistan	2,218
China	1,615                                              Bangladesh	1,888
Ukraine	1,382                                            Nigeria	1,698
Romania	1,374                                            Ethiopia	1,624
Philippines	1,279                                        Vietnam	1,341
Morocco	1,096                                            Uganda	764
Indonesia	1,072                                          Tanzania	753
Colombia	870                                             Kenya	612
Tunisia	426                                              Sri Lanka	                          442
Note: Amounts for multicountry operations are allocated across borrowers.



TABLE 2                                                  TABLE 3
NUMBER OF APPROVED OPERATIONS                            ACTIVE PORTFOLIO NET COMMITMENTS
                                                         BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, AS OF JUNE 30, 2014

Region	                                IBRD	IDA          Region	                                    IBRD	IDA

Africa	                                    2	139         Africa	                                     4.2	42.5
East Asia and Pacific	                    20	      36    East Asia and Pacific	                     22.0	    8.6
Europe and Central Asia	                  30	      13    Europe and Central Asia	                   23.6	    3.0
Latin America and the Caribbean	          24	      17    Latin America and the Caribbean	           26.4	    2.2
Middle East and North Africa	             14	       7    Middle East and North Africa	               9.4	    1.3
South Asia	                                5	      37    South Asia	                                12.8	   27.4
Total	                                    95	249         Total	                                     98.3	84.9



TABLE 4
WORLD BANK STAFF
AS OF JUNE 30, 2014

Administrative staff	                                     1,810
Full-time consultants	                                    1,187
Technical/managerial staff	                             895/519
World Bank total salaried staff	                         12,335
Short-term consultants (estimated)	                       4,804

Country offices	                                            131
Percentage of staff based in country offices:
  Country Directors/managers	                              91%
  Total World Bank staff	                                  38%


                                                                                                             11
Building a “Solutions World Bank Group”

At the 2013 Annual Meetings, the World Bank adopted a new World Bank Group Strategy
focused on aligning all of the institutions’ work with the twin goals of eliminating extreme
poverty and boosting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner. The two goals are now at the
heart of the World Bank Group’s work. The first calls for an end to extreme poverty by 2030—
reducing to no more than 3 percent the fraction of the world’s population living on less than
$1.25 per day. To accelerate progress, the Bank Group has also set an interim goal of cutting
extreme poverty to 9 percent of the world’s population by 2020. The second goal of boosting
shared prosperity will require promoting income growth of the bottom 40 percent of each
developing country’s population.
     Implementation of the Strategy supporting these goals involves sweeping institutional
changes designed to significantly raise the World Bank Group’s financial capacity as well as its
operational efficiency. Under the new structure, the institutions of the World Bank Group—the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development
Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA)—will strengthen their collaboration to deliver effective solutions that
bring global knowledge to bear on local challenges. Leveraging the strengths and resources
of the four institutions will produce a stronger, more nimble, and financially sustainable Bank
Group that is better able to deliver proven development solutions to its clients.

Delivering results for clients
The World Bank Group Strategy comprises three pillars:
   The Bank Group will deliver results for its clients through country programs and regional and
•  
   global engagements by offering knowledge and solutions to the toughest development
   challenges.
   Closer collaboration across the Bank Group will multiply the strengths of each institution by
•  
   using their combined resources and expertise to serve clients as the “Solutions World Bank
   Group.”
   Leveraging the partnerships, resources, and expertise of the private sector and other
•  
   development actors will help the Bank Group maximize the impact of development in
   alignment with the twin goals.
     A prominent change derived from the Strategy is the development of Global Practices
and Cross-Cutting Solution Areas, which are designed to reflect the Bank Group’s comparative
advantages and better complement the existing strengths of its regional units and country
offices. The Global Practices will improve the sharing across all regions of technical expertise
and knowledge in 14 specialized areas of development:

Agriculture                         Governance                       Social Protection and Labor
Education                           Health, Nutrition, and           Social, Urban, Rural, and
Energy and Extractives              Population                       Resilience

Environment and Natural             Macroeconomics and Fiscal        Trade and Competitiveness
Resources                           Management                       Transport and ICT
Finance and Markets                 Poverty                          Water

The Cross-Cutting Solution Areas will address development challenges that require integration
across five areas of specialization:

Climate Change                                Gender         Public-Private Partnerships
Fragility, Conflict, and Violence             Jobs

The World Bank—comprised of IBRD and IDA—has also adopted a new country engagement
model, which is designed to tailor policies and programs to the needs and priorities of
individual countries. The model is centered on new Country Partnership Frameworks, which


12       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
will be underpinned by evidence-based analysis and will help Bank Group programs to
selectively address areas that have the most impact in supporting countries’ efforts to achieve
the twin goals. This approach will include coordination with IFC and MIGA and will provide the
basis for selective and focused engagements across the World Bank Group. Regular meetings
of regional management from the World Bank, IFC, and MIGA will determine the appropriate
level of engagement for each institution and identify where joint implementation mechanisms
are needed. The new approach will remain country focused, grounded in national priorities,
owned by the country, and developed in coordination with other partners. Emphasis will shift
from an “approvals” to a “results delivery” culture centered on implementation, real-time citizen
feedback, and mid-course evaluation and correction.

Improving financial capacity and sustainability
To ensure the availability of adequate resources that are aligned with the twin goals and its
Strategy, the World Bank Group is undertaking significant financial reforms that will increase
its capacity to provide financial services to clients while strengthening its financial resilience.
Through efforts to become more efficient and shore up its revenue base, the Bank Group will
improve its financial sustainability and build a strong foundation for years to come.
      Over the next decade, the World Bank Group will increase its financing capacity from an
annual average of $45 billion–$50 billion to more than $70 billion. The additional financing is
made possible by the record IDA17 replenishment, which will ensure IDA’s lending capacity
over fiscal 2015–17. On the revenue side, IBRD will strengthen its margins for maneuver by
increasing its single-borrower limit by $2.5 billion for Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, and Mexico,
with a 50 basis point surcharge on the incremental amount; lowering its equity-to-loan ratio
percentage to reflect improvements in its portfolio credit quality; expanding the menu of loan
maturities including extending the maximum maturity; and restoring commitment fees on
undisbursed balances.
      Increased lending capacity and budget flexibility will also result from a World Bank Group–
wide Expenditure Review, which has identified cost-saving measures of at least $400 million
on the annual cost base to be achieved over fiscal 2015–17 and will optimize the cost structure
of the Bank Group. The cost savings are being designed to ensure that the Bank Group’s
operational capacities and its ability to deliver services to clients will not be compromised.
Additionally, a new budget and strategic planning process—simpler and more flexible—is
helping to align resources more directly with the World Bank Group Strategy and twin goals.
It focuses on promoting selectivity, linking budget to results, and medium-term planning.
      As a World Bank Group, increased collaboration among the four institutions will
simplify procedures and reduce overlapping administrative functions while magnifying
the development impact of its work with clients. One early example of collaboration is an
innovative exposure swap between IBRD and MIGA of up to $100 million of principal that will
enable each institution to do more business in Brazil and Panama.

An agenda for change
Other efforts to improve operations will continue beyond fiscal 2014. For example, in
November 2013, the Board considered an outline of a new framework for procurement in
World Bank investment project finance, and endorsed a vision statement and principles
to guide its implementation. The next phase will articulate details of the new policy and
implementation. Work also continues to review the World Bank’s safeguard policies, begun
in 2012, to update the policy framework that helps avoid or mitigate harm to people and the
environment. A second round of global consultations with stakeholders on the proposed new
framework is planned for the second half of 2014. (See consultations.worldbank.org.)
     Changes now under way across the World Bank Group are the most extensive and
important in decades. They are intended to align all of the institutions’ work to the twin goals
within the context of its Strategy. The result will be a Bank Group that is financially strong; a
recognized leader in knowledge and talent; fast and responsive; internally integrated, globally
connected, and locally engaged; and focused on achieving the goals of ending extreme
poverty and boosting shared prosperity.




                                                                                                  13
The World Bank: Promoting
Opportunity, Growth, and Prosperity
The twin goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared
prosperity, the new World Bank Group Strategy, and the change process
now under way across the Bank Group together will strengthen its
ability to carry out its core mission of providing lending and knowledge
to developing countries. The following are highlights of current work by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and
the International Development Association (IDA), collectively known as
the World Bank.

Managing risks in the global economy
Despite some setbacks in early 2014, the recovery is under way in high-income economies and
is expected to support growth in developing countries. However, many developing countries
are beginning to encounter capacity limits to economic activity. The growth rates needed to
achieve the World Bank’s twin goals would require reinvigorated structural reforms tailored to
each developing country’s circumstances.
     Growth in developing countries is expected to remain flat at 4.8 percent in 2014. One-off
factors (such as the exceptionally cold winter in the United States and the tensions in Ukraine)
depressed growth in many countries in early 2014 but are expected to subside. In 2015 and
2016, growth is expected to pick up to about 5.5 percent, broadly in line with its average over
the precrisis decade.
     Regional prospects vary. East Asia and Pacific continue to exhibit the strongest growth,
though it is expected to remain flat in 2014 at about 7 percent as China rebalances growth
toward a more sustainable path. Buoyed by strengthening economies in high-income
countries, growth in South Asia is expected to be 5.3 percent in 2014 and should rise
further in 2015 and 2016 to around 6 percent, partly as a result of policy reforms. Investments
in the resources sector, public infrastructure, and agriculture have helped to sustain growth
in Sub-Saharan Africa at 4.7 percent and are expected to push growth above 5 percent in
2015–16. A divergent recovery is under way in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. The weak
outlook in key trading partners (in particular, the Russian Federation) is expected to slow
growth in Central Asia, while developing Europe will benefit from the gradual recovery under
way in the Euro Area. As a result, growth in developing countries in Europe and Central Asia
is expected to slow to 2.4 percent in 2014 before strengthening to about 4.0 percent in 2016.
Weak growth in the United States in early 2014 dampened growth in Latin America and the
Caribbean, but the recovery in high-income countries and steady commodity prices are
expected to strengthen growth to 3.5 percent in 2016. Social and political strife continue to
hinder activity in much of the Middle East and North Africa, where growth is expected to pick
up to 1.9 percent in 2014 (following stagnation in 2013) and rise to 3.5 percent by 2016.

14      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
                                                              PHILIPPINES  Dominic Chavez/The World Bank




    Short-term risks to the overall outlook have receded. Challenges and risks in high-
income countries are increasingly of a medium-term nature, including those related to fiscal
sustainability, exits from unconventional monetary policy, a prolonged period of low inflation
or deflation risks in the Euro Area, and the need for structural reforms to boost productivity
growth. Among developing countries, short-term risks have also become less pressing. This
is partly because earlier downside risks over the past year did not generate large upheavals,
and partly because the recent economic adjustments have reduced vulnerabilities. In several
countries, adjustments in exchange rates, interest rate hikes, and other policy measures since
the summer of 2013 have narrowed current account deficits and slowed credit growth.
    Developing countries continue to face various challenges. External financial conditions
are expected to tighten as the recovery in high-income countries gains traction. In addition,
several developing countries seem limited by the lack of capacity to sustain further growth.
Sustained and strong future growth in developing countries therefore rests on domestic
efforts to increase productivity and competitiveness while reducing vulnerabilities to external
pressures. Such reforms are necessary if developing countries are to achieve the goals of
ending poverty and boosting shared prosperity. Rising inequality in many countries is harmful
to economic stability and the sustainability of growth, but well-designed policies can reduce
inequality without hurting growth. (See worldbank.org/gep.)

Building infrastructure for tomorrow’s world
Developing countries face intense pressure to provide
basic services—water, energy, transportation, and                  260,000 kilometers of
information and communication technology—in large
                                                                   roads were constructed or
part because some 5 million people move from rural
to urban areas each year. Helping countries to meet                rehabilitated worldwide
these infrastructure needs represents the World Bank’s             between 2002 and 2013.
largest business line, which at $19 billion, comprised
47 percent of the total assistance to client countries in
fiscal 2014.
    Developing countries will need to invest an estimated $1 trillion per year through 2020
to overcome the lack of adequate infrastructure. For example, some 2.5 billion people do
not have access to basic sanitation, 748 million people cannot access improved water, and
nearly 1 billion people in rural areas lack access to all-weather roads. The demand for new and
improved infrastructure will only grow. It will evolve as economies mature and with the
pressures of rapid urbanization, climate change, and demographic shifts.
    Water insecurity has become one of the greatest challenges facing the world today, and
climate change is expected to worsen the situation. In January 2014, the World Bank launched


             THE WORLD BANK: PROMOTING OPPORTUNIT Y, GROW TH, AND PROSPERIT Y                       15
ALBANIA  Albes Fusha/The World Bank




the “Thirsty Energy” initiative to help developing countries incorporate water constraints
into their energy development plans and investments. Countries such as South Africa and
China have already begun working with the Bank to better understand their current energy
                                         and water interdependencies and to help identify the
                                         exposure to risks and related tradeoffs that will have to
4 million people in Ukraine              be made to ensure sustainable energy. (See worldbank
received improved water                  .org/water.)
and sanitation services                      Providing electricity to the world’s 1.2 billion
                                         people who now live without it—and modern cooking
between 2007 and 2014.
                                         solutions to 2.8 billion people who use wood or other
                                         biomass as household fuel—is also vital to ending
poverty and boosting shared prosperity. The Energy Sector Directions Paper, discussed by
the Board of Directors in July 2013, emphasizes expanding access to modern energy services,
as well as accelerating energy efficiency gains and renewable energy expansion. These goals
coincide with the objectives of the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL) Initiative, in which the
World Bank plays a leadership role along with the United Nations.
     A prime example of energy needs is the continent of Africa. To help meet the continent’s
needs, IDA recently approved a $73 million grant to the Democratic Republic of Congo for
planning the Inga Hydroelectric Project. Potentially the world’s largest hydropower site, it could
generate power equal to one-half of the installed capacity in all of Sub-Saharan Africa today.
(See worldbank.org/energy.)
     Transportation projects financed by the World Bank range from building the first
all-weather roads in rural areas to helping to relieve urban congestion. One of the latest
examples of the latter is taking place in Quito, Ecuador, where construction began during fiscal
2014 on an underground metro line that is expected to ease congestion and reduce pollution
in a city of 1.6 million people surrounded by volcanoes. When completed in late 2018, the
23-kilometer metro will have the capacity to transport 360,000 passengers a day. Financing
of the project came from a unique collaboration between IBRD, the Andean Development
Corporation, the European Investment Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank, along
with Ecuador’s municipal and national governments. (See worldbank.org/en/topic/transport.)
     The World Bank has also been a global leader in providing funding and technical assistance
for information and communication technologies in developing countries. In the Pacific
region, for example, the Bank is helping remote island populations to access broadband
Internet, making it easier and cheaper for people to connect to friends, jobs, and knowledge.
In August 2013, a new 830-kilometer fiber optic cable connected the country of Tonga, made
up of 176 islands spread across 700,000 square kilometers of ocean, to Fiji and onward to
global broadband networks. As a result, the household price for a month of Internet service,


16        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
per gigabyte, has fallen by 60 percent, and bandwidth utilization has grown 10-fold, which is
expected to help create jobs and facilitate access to remote health and education services. (See
worldbank.org/ict.)

Confronting the reality of climate change
The World Bank is working to leverage both public and private sources of climate finance to
support climate-smart policies and investments and to help countries and businesses adapt to
a changing climate.
     In fiscal 2014, the World Bank worked with 62 countries to take action on climate change.
Examples of new projects announced this year include the Ethiopia Climate Innovation Center,
which is expected to help more than 3.1 million Ethiopians increase resilience to climate
change and to create more than 12,000 jobs in the next 10 years; a $100 million grant to
Burundi to finance hydropower projects that will bring clean electricity to Burundi’s poor; and
a project to help rural communities in the Solomon Islands to manage risks associated with
natural hazards and climate change. The project, with $9.1 million in funding from the Bank,
will benefit 79,000 Solomon Islanders. (See worldbank.org/climatechange.)
     The World Bank is one of the world’s largest issuers of green bonds, which finance
climate-related projects. So far, the World Bank Treasury has raised over $6.3 billion with
green bonds. IBRD has issued 66 World Bank Green
Bonds in 17 currencies, supporting 50 projects in 17
member countries. Examples of projects supported                 Off-grid solar power has
by World Bank Green Bonds include renewable                      been delivered to 2.9
energy installations, energy-efficiency projects, new            million households in
technologies in waste management and agriculture
that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and help to
                                                                 Bangladesh since 2002,
finance the transition to a low-carbon economy. Green            contributing to a 9 percent
bonds also finance forest and watershed management,              increase in access to
and infrastructure to prevent climate-related flood              electricity.
damage and build climate resilience.
     The World Bank’s green bond issuance in fiscal
year 2014 included the following four successful benchmark transactions: more than $1 billion
issued through two U.S. dollar transactions, an inaugural e550 million World Bank Green Bond,
and a $A 300 million “Kangaroo” Green Bond, the first-ever in the Australian market, opening
that market for other green bond issuers to follow.

Protecting nature, unlocking the wealth of natural capital
Three-quarters of the world’s poor live in rural areas, where natural capital—forests, wetlands,
and oceans—represent a major proportion of people’s wealth. For the rural and coastal poor,
whose livelihoods depend on such natural capital, the World Bank has funded projects that
provide a social safety net to supplement agricultural lifestyles and diversify incomes. For
example, the Honduras Forests and Rural Productivity Project supported conservation and
sustainable management of biodiversity in several communities, increasing incomes by more
than 300 percent and directly creating 3,000 jobs and indirectly creating 5,400 jobs.
    The World Bank is also investing in the stock of natural capital to ensure long-term
sustainable returns for the poor and the newly middle class. In fiscal 2014, the Bank approved
over $130 million in new forest and biodiversity projects that, for example, have helped to
establish or expand forest protected areas, strengthened the protection of wetlands, and
improved the management of fisheries. Helping countries to combat environmental and
natural resources crime is another Word Bank priority.
For example, in fiscal 2014, the Bank launched a project
in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic to strengthen
                                                                  4.1 million hectares had
the management of protected areas and control the
wildlife trade.                                                   new or improved irrigation
    At the policy level, the World Bank–led global                or drainage between 2004
partnership on Wealth Accounting and the Valuation                and 2013.
of Ecosystem Services is assisting countries in Africa,



              THE WORLD BANK: PROMOTING OPPORTUNIT Y, GROW TH, AND PROSPERIT Y                17
IDA17 Replenishment


T
        his year, the International Development Association (IDA) concluded its 17th replenishment (IDA17)
        with record financing of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 34.6 billion (equivalent to $52.1 billion). The
        overarching theme of IDA17 is “maximizing development impact.” This theme emphasizes IDA’s role
in leveraging private resources, public resources, and knowledge to deliver results in the world’s poorest
countries. The theme also incorporates a sharper focus on “value for money” through greater efforts to
achieve both concrete results and cost effectiveness.
       The special themes for IDA17, to be implemented within the context of each country, include three
areas carried over from IDA16: promoting gender equality, assisting fragile and conflict-affected situations
(FCS), and helping countries to deal with the consequences of climate change, including an agreed-upon
policy action to provide climate change support to an additional 25 IDA countries. Another theme for IDA17
is inclusive growth, which is central to achieving the World Bank Group (WBG) goals. Anchored in the WBG
Strategy, the IDA17 policy package includes a range of policy commitments and performance indicators
under IDA’s four-tier Results Measurement System.
       Responding to the increasingly diverse needs of IDA’s clients, the resource allocation framework
for IDA17 was revised to respond more effectively to the challenges facing FCS and small states while
preserving the principle of performance orientation. IDA17 will also provide transitional support to India,
which graduated from IDA during the period of IDA16.
       Expected results from projects financed by IDA17 include electricity for an estimated
15 million–20 million people, life-saving vaccines for 200 million children, microfinance loans for more than
1 million women, and basic health services for 65 million people. Some 32 million people will benefit from
access to clean water and another 5.6 million from better sanitation facilities. IDA17 runs from July 1, 2014,
through June 30, 2017.




   Central and South America, and East Asia to factor natural assets and their ecosystem services
   into development plans and systems of national accounts. Guatemala, Indonesia, and Rwanda
   joined the partnership during fiscal 2014. Water accounts are helping Botswana to better
   manage this scarce resource, and forest accounts in Guatemala have highlighted the extent of
   uncontrolled deforestation, leading to new forest protection and alternative energy policies.
   (See worldbank.org/environment.)

   Getting urbanization right
   The developing world is experiencing rapid urbanization, with the number of city dwellers
   expected to reach 4 billion in 2030, twice the level of 2000. The World Bank’s urban strategy,
   grounded in a policy framework that distills lessons from the ongoing Urbanization Reviews
   program, aims to ensure that rapid urbanization is managed well for resilient, inclusive, and
   sustainable growth. The Bank’s urban agenda is aligned with the twin goals and places greater
   emphasis on addressing risk from climate change and improving services for the urban poor.
       Programs launched in fiscal 2014 designed to catalyze support for the World Bank’s
   priorities included:
                                              •  Low-Carbon, Livable Cities. This initiative assists rapidly
   6.8 million people were                        growing cities to plan for low-carbon development,
   provided with access                           focusing on diagnostics and tools to improve
                                                  planning and on new financing instruments. This
   to improved sanitation                         year, City Creditworthiness Academy workshops were
   facilities, 2011–13.                           conducted in Nairobi, Kenya, and in Seoul, Republic of
                                                  Korea, for African and Asian cities, respectively, as the
    first step in helping cities to improve their finances and access to capital so that they can
   deliver better services and make climate-smart investments.
   •  Resilient Cities. Working with UN-Habitat, the Rockefeller Foundation, C40, and others,
       this program aids cities in managing natural disaster and climate risk, as well as broader
       challenges such as economic downturns, public health epidemics, and other systemic
       shocks.
   •  Competitive Cities. This cross-sector initiative provides the leaders of cities and metropolitan
       regions with robust analytics on the drivers of city competitiveness; evidence to support



   18        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
                                                                    BRAZIL  Mariana Ceratti/The World Bank




    policy decisions to attract investment, create jobs,
    and spur growth; and policy implementation                    37.4 million people were
    support.                                                      covered by social safety
•  Inclusive Cities. This program focuses the Bank’s work
                                                                  net programs, 2011–13.
    on how to make cities more inclusive, broadening
    the agenda from infrastructure to improving access
    to land, public transport, jobs, and opportunities for all.
     MetroLab, or the Global Lab on Metropolitan Strategic Planning, is another innovative
initiative by the World Bank to enable cities to learn from one another as they pursue a
metropolitan approach to urban development. In fiscal 2014, MetroLab was convened in
Seoul in partnership with the Seoul Metropolitan Government, and brought together over
100 participants, including mayors, urban planners, and technical experts, from 18 cities in 15
countries. (See worldbank.org/urbandevelopment.)

Bolstering disaster and climate resilience
Over the past 10 years, the World Bank has emerged as the global leader in disaster risk
management (DRM), supporting countries to prepare for and manage disaster risks. Through
technical and financial support for risk assessments, risk reduction, preparedness, financial
protection, and resilient recovery and reconstruction, the Bank helps countries to reduce their
vulnerabilities due to natural hazards and climate change.
     The World Bank’s DRM portfolio, including co-benefits, has grown about 20 percent
annually for the past four years to about $5.3 billion in fiscal 2014. During the year, 80 percent
of active World Bank country assistance strategies incorporated disaster and climate risk
analysis, promoting a comprehensive, multisector approach to managing disaster risk.
     The Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR), a growing partnership
of 21 countries, is the World Bank’s institutional mechanism for DRM. Working with more
than 300 national, community-level, and international partners, GFDRR helps countries to
mainstream DRM in development strategies and processes. Through a new $100 million
program supported by the government of Japan, a World Bank-GFDRR DRM Hub was
established in Tokyo in February 2014. The Hub will help to bring Japanese experience and
expertise to vulnerable countries and World Bank DRM operations.
     Since 2010, more than 40 million people in 24 countries have gained improved access to
risk information about their countries through World Bank–supported national and regional
geospatial data-sharing platforms. Following Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013, the World
Bank and GFDRR assisted the Philippines with a rapid damage assessment based on satellite
imagery and geospatial information. The Bank is also helping the government with a long-term
financing and reconstruction strategy.

               THE WORLD BANK: PROMOTING OPPORTUNIT Y, GROW TH, AND PROSPERIT Y                       19
    The World Bank helps countries to protect their fiscal sustainability from external shocks
caused by disaster through innovative financing mechanisms like the Catastrophe Deferred
Drawdown Option, expanding the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility to Central
America, and adding a new pilot facility in the Pacific Islands. In January 2014, the facility
made its first payout to Tonga with $1.3 million for cyclone recovery. Similar initiatives are
also ongoing in the southern part of Eastern Europe and in South Asia. (See worldbank.org
/disasterriskmanagement.)

Managing financial risks, strengthening resilience to shocks
The World Bank is helping member countries to protect hard-won development gains by
facilitating access to risk management solutions that mitigate the financial impact associated
with market volatility and natural disasters. In fiscal 2014, IBRD executed the equivalent of more
than $4.3 billion in currency, interest rate, and disaster risk management transactions for clients,
including subnationals and state-owned enterprises in Morocco, South Africa, Tunisia, Turkey,
and Uruguay.
     In December 2013, the World Bank executed a landmark $450 million weather and
oil-price insurance transaction for Uruguay’s state-owned electric utility, Administración
Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Eléctricas (UTE). With more than 80 percent of its energy
needs coming from hydropower, water shortages mean that UTE must purchase oil and
other sources of energy, exposing the country and consumers to high electricity-generation
costs. This transaction marked the largest weather derivative the market had ever seen and
insured UTE for 18 months against drought and high oil prices. It was also part of a broader risk
management program that included a reserve fund and longer-term investment in alternative
energy sources and interconnectivity with Brazil. (See treasury.worldbank.org.)

Promoting jobs, the private sector, and universal financial access
One of the highest priorities for meeting the twin goals is stimulating the creation of millions
of jobs in developing countries. Across the world, more than 200 million working-age people
                                           are out of work, and about 1.5 billion are marginally
                                           employed. In addition, current demographic trends
45 million poor people                     mean that 600 million new jobs will be needed by
                                           2027 just to hold employment rates constant. About 90
experienced an average of                  percent of the new jobs will have to be in the private
an 11 percent increase in                  sector, which is the main driver of global employment
household expenditures as                  growth.
the result of a community-                      The World Bank is working with member countries
                                           to improve job opportunities through a creative
driven program in                          mix of employment services, training, support for
Indonesia between 2009                     competitiveness and entrepreneurship, and increased
and 2012.                                  access to credit. In fiscal 2014, the World Bank’s labor-
                                           related lending totaled $218 million. From fiscal 2011
                                           to fiscal 2013, the Bank supported 1.5 million new
labor market program beneficiaries, half of whom were female. (See worldbank.org/en/topic
/jobsandpoverty.)
     An estimated 2.5 billion adults are financially excluded—meaning that they have no access
to formal banking or financial services—with almost 80 percent of them living on incomes of
less than $2 per day. This factor constrains fulfillment of the poverty-related goals. The World
Bank has set out a vision of achieving universal financial access by 2020 through the concerted
efforts of countries leading their own reforms and through the harnessing of technology and
data to reduce the costs and risks of financial services.
     In April, the World Bank launched the Financial Inclusion Support Framework, which will
support and coordinate efforts by countries to give their citizens access to financial services.
More than 50 countries have made commitments to expand financial inclusion, through such
initiatives as the Group of 20 Financial Inclusion Peer Learning Program and the Alliance for
Financial Inclusion. The Bank also supports reforms by governments that can lower the costs and
risks of reaching the unbanked and the underserved, and consumer financial protection and
awareness programs that can enable consumers to use new products. (See worldbank.org/fpd.)


20       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Investing in human development
The World Bank is committing expanded resources to invest in people to reach the twin goals.
Achieving both goals will be possible only if developing countries can provide necessary
education and health services, along with jobs and social protection, for more than 1 billion
people now living just above or below the poverty line. The Bank is the largest external
supporter of education in developing countries, managing a portfolio of $11.1 billion, with
operations in 71 countries. In fiscal 2014, new support for education totaled $3.6 billion, up
sharply from $2.9 billion in 2013 and bolstered by
increased support for basic education. For example, the
Bank committed more than $1.0 billion in IDA support              1 million teachers were
to improve education outcomes for about 200 million               recruited or trained
elementary school children in India. This project will            worldwide between 2011
improve teacher accountability and enhance access to
                                                                  and 2013.
elementary education for disadvantaged children.
     Improving learning for all is the World Bank’s
highest priority in education. The Bank’s education strategy encourages countries to get
children off to the right start with effective early childhood development programs, followed
with an emphasis on facilitating labor mobility and job matching. The goal is for students at
all levels to receive a quality education that will prepare them to meet the challenges of the
21st century. The Bank also helps countries to analyze their education systems with cross-
country, comparable data through the Systems Approach for Better Education Results (SABER)
initiative. In Tanzania, for example, SABER-Teachers data are helping to shape the government’s
current large-scale education reforms under its Big Results Now initiative. (See worldbank.org
/education.)
     With the 2015 deadline for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) looming, the
World Bank in fiscal 2014 continued accelerating efforts to help countries achieve the health
MDGs by that date. In September 2013, the Bank committed to investing $700 million by 2015
to improve women and children’s health. The funding is enabling the scale-up of successful
reproductive, maternal, and child health projects, which also include malaria and tuberculosis
prevention, as well as other disease-prevention activities. The Bank nearly tripled direct
financing for maternal and early childhood nutrition programs in 2013–14 to $600 million,
up from $230 million in 2011–12 , and is accelerating work on multisectoral approaches to
improve nutrition through sectors such as agriculture.
     The most equitable and sustainable way to achieve
these health outcomes is through universal health                 144,974 children were
coverage. To that end, the World Bank’s goals in health           immunized in South Sudan
are to ensure that everyone has access to quality,
essential health services, and no one struggles to pay            between 2009 and 2012.
for these services. Reflecting the Bank’s commitment to
the MDGs, three areas of special focus were expanding
access to family planning and reproductive health, preventing HIV/AIDS and other
communicable diseases, and scaling up support for early childhood nutrition. (See worldbank
.org/health.)
     Building sustainable and affordable social safety nets is another vital component of the
campaign to eliminate extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity. In fiscal 2014, the
World Bank invested more than $1.8 billion in social protection and labor programs, and
it manages a $9.9 billion portfolio with 134 operations in 72 countries. Cash transfers are
becoming an increasingly important safety net tool, particularly in postconflict and fragile
societies.
     The Social Protection and Labor Strategy 2012–22 aims to help countries move from
fragmented programs to affordable social protection systems, to enable individuals to manage
risk, and to improve resilience by investing in human capital and improving people’s ability to
access jobs. Social safety nets have an immediate impact by putting resources into the hands
of the poorest and most vulnerable members of society. The World Bank supports safety net
programs that protect families from shocks; help ensure that children grow up healthy and
well-fed, and stay in school and learn; empower women and girls; and create jobs. Examples
of safety net interventions are cash transfers, labor-intensive public works, and school feeding
programs. (See worldbank.org/sp.)


             THE WORLD BANK: PROMOTING OPPORTUNIT Y, GROW TH, AND PROSPERIT Y                21
BANGLADESH  Scott Wallace/The World Bank




Reducing poverty through inclusive growth and good governance
The World Bank supports the design of policies and the building of accountable institutions
to achieve inclusive growth in developing countries. Public and private policies and actions
can promote gender equality, and the Bank has placed gender equality at the forefront of
its own work with clients. Illustrative of this is the fact that all country assistance strategies
discussed in the past year were gender informed, meaning that gender was integrated into
the analysis.
     Gender integration in World Bank lending has deepened, with more lending operations
including follow-up actions to address identified gender disparities. This is true across all groups
of clients and sectors. The total share of Bank lending that was gender informed rose from 54
percent to 95 percent between fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2014, or nearly $38 billion in fiscal 2014.
Ninety-three percent of operations in fragile and conflict-affected situations were gender
informed in fiscal 2014, up from 62 percent in fiscal 2010. Similarly, 49 out of 54 operations (over
90 percent) in conflict-affected situations in Africa were gender informed in fiscal 2014.
     Two reports produced this year by the World Bank detail persistent challenges. Voice and
Agency: Empowering Women and Girls for Shared Prosperity sheds new light on constraints facing
                                           women and girls worldwide, from epidemic levels of
                                           gender-based violence to biased laws and norms that
                                           prevent them from owning property, working, and
6.3 million individuals                    making decisions about their own lives. Gender at Work:
availed themselves of                      A Companion to the World Development Report on Jobs
microcredit, with 58                       describes how women around the world still face huge
                                           and persistent inequalities at work.
percent of the loans given
                                               In late 2013, the World Bank launched two new
to women between 2000                      open technology platforms providing a wealth of
and 2013.                                  information about progress toward gender equality.
                                           One, the enGender Impact database, is a repository of
                                           impact evaluations with key findings gathered from
World Bank and partner projects. Another, the ADePT Gender software application, houses a
growing volume of gender data and produces quick, standardized reports, including cross-
country labor statistics. (See worldbank.org/gender.)
     Inclusive opportunities in society are supported by good governance practices in the
public sector, and the World Bank has a long history of helping countries to develop sound
governance and effective institutions. Putting this emphasis into practice at the country level,
for example, the Bank has worked with Honduras, where 100 percent of central government
expenditures have been included in a single treasury account since 2010, and internal audit



22        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
  IBRD and IDA: Our people


  C
           omposed of some 12,335 full-time staff members of 172 nationalities who work across 134
           countries, the World Bank’s workforce is a global one in every sense of the word. The richness of the
           backgrounds and experience of Bank staff continues to be a hallmark of the products and services
  that clients seek.
         The World Bank has a significant global footprint, with 40 percent of staff now working outside the
  United States. And 85 percent of the staff in country offices are locally hired, underscoring efforts to recruit
  local talent, whose skills help the Bank better understand, work more closely with, and provide faster service
  to partners in client countries.
         In terms of diversity, nationals of developing countries account for 61 percent of all staff and 41
  percent of management positions. Women currently account for 51 percent of all staff and 38 percent of
  management positions, and Sub-Saharan African and Caribbean nationals represent 15 percent of all staff
  and 12 percent of management positions.
         Human Resources staff support the Bank in employing the right people in the right place with the right
  skills at the right time. To deliver on that commitment, the Human Resources Strategy has four areas
  of focus:

  • 
    Building a culture of performance and accountability
  • 
    Developing inspiring leaders
  • 
    Shaping a diverse and inclusive workforce
  • 
    Creating career opportunities for staff.

       Addressing the final point, the past year has seen significant progress in the areas of career mobility
  and performance management, as well as in the area of compensation—all efforts that seek to strengthen
  the employment value proposition for Bank staff.
       As the Bank retools to increase its delivery and responsiveness to its clients, Human Resources has
  played a pivotal role in the transition of staff from the earlier structure to the new Global Practices. Looking
  forward, aligning staffing and skills to the World Bank Group Strategy will be a priority.




units now cover the entire central government. In
Vietnam, the financial information management                            The number of public
system now operates nationwide and is used for                           procurement processes
budget execution, accounting, and fiscal reporting for
                                                                         published in 2013 in
the central government and those in all 63 provinces
and 700 districts. Also, in the Republic of Yemen,                       the Dominican Republic
the government budget is now prepared using                              reached 57,000, compared
Government Finance Statistics classifications and                        to 1,000 in 2012.
is published on the government website when it is
submitted to the parliament.

Increasing agricultural incomes and food security
Investing in agriculture is essential to reducing poverty because 78 percent of the poor live in
rural areas and most rely on agriculture for their livelihoods. The world must produce about 50
percent more food by 2050 for a projected population of 9 billion. To help countries meet food
and nutrition needs and raise the incomes of small-holder farmers, the World Bank Group is
expanding its support to agriculture and related sectors reaching $8 billion to $10 billion per
year during 2013–15, up from an average of $7 billion per year during 2010–12.
    The World Bank’s predominant focus is on raising agricultural productivity and resilience,
especially for small-holder farmers, and better linking these farmers to markets. Additional
emphasis is being given to the areas of climate-smart agriculture, private sector responses,
longer-term risk management, gender mainstreaming, nutrition, and landscape approaches.
In addition to direct support, the World Bank participates in and manages global partnerships,
which provide broader support to these areas.
    The Global Food Price Crisis Response Program was established by the World Bank in May
2008 in response to concerns about higher and more-volatile food prices. It has reached nearly
70 million people in 49 countries through $1.6 billion in emergency support.



               THE WORLD BANK: PROMOTING OPPORTUNIT Y, GROW TH, AND PROSPERIT Y                              23
                                             The World Bank also coordinates the Global
2.6 million farmers                      Agriculture and Food Security Program, a global
                                         partnership supporting long-term, country-led
worldwide have adopted
                                         agriculture and food-security plans and helping to
new technologies since                   promote investments, especially for small-holder
2004.                                    farmers. Nine countries and the Bill & Melinda Gates
                                         Foundation have pledged $1.4 billion over three years,
                                         and the program has awarded $912 million in grants to
                                         25 countries. (See worldbank.org/agriculture.)

Assisting fragile and conflict-affected situations

Working more effectively to combat fragility, conflict, and violence is a commitment that goes to
the very heart of the World Bank’s mandate and the twin goals. By 2030, estimates suggest that
the average rate of extreme poverty in fragile and conflict-affected situations (FCS) will still be
about 30 percent, down from about 40 percent today, based on current trends.
    Recognizing this, the IDA17 deputies supported a financing and policy package that
tackles issues at the core of the development agenda in FCS. The financing package includes
adjustments to the IDA resource allocation framework that would allow for increased financial
engagement in these countries. Subject to country performance, these adjustments could lead
to a 50 percent increase in the share of IDA funding to FCS. This was accompanied by strong
IDA commitments to improve effectiveness and value-for-money in FCS, with a particular focus
on the issues of livelihood and gender.
    In fiscal 2014, the Center on Conflict, Security, and Development, a specialized unit with
a staff of experts co-located in Nairobi, Kenya, and Washington, DC, contributed to 8 country
assistance strategies and 11 fragility assessments. The center published a benchmarking review
                                           of 53 FCS country strategies to extract the lessons of
                                           strategy development in challenging environments.
                                               Trust fund financing has provided critical and
The number of students                     strategic support in countries with limited or no access
in West Bank and Gaza                      to other financing sources; for example, to Lebanon
primary schools increased                  and Jordan in response to the Syrian refugee crisis.
                                           Trust fund support also serves to develop cutting-edge
from 345,250 in 2007 to                    knowledge on development approaches in challenging
623,380 in 2012.                           FCS contexts, to promote partnerships with the United
                                           Nations, and to pilot activities that can be scaled up
                                           through IDA and other financing sources.
    A number of “hot topic” areas have been a special focus of work in fiscal 2014. A high-level
seminar on extractive industries in FCS was hosted at the Annual Meetings to examine how rich
resources could be a source of sustaining wealth for citizens, rather than conflict. Gender and
job creation are also vital in FCS, and one example of support to the private sector in the most
challenging of environments is the $10 million Somaliland Business Fund, in which the World
Bank Group partners with the British and Danish governments. (See worldbank.org/fcs.)

Supporting knowledge for solutions
Providing reliable data about the developing world and knowledge about proven
development solutions is one of the World Bank’s key value propositions. No other
development institution has as much breadth and quality of information about how countries
and communities around the world have solved their problems—and how those solutions can
be applied in very different situations.
     The World Bank and other multilateral institutions have established the Global Poverty
Statistics Board to collaborate and help to develop accurate data on poverty and incomes
to measure progress toward the twin goals. An important aspect of this work is the use of
statistical profiles of the bottom 40 percent of the population in each country. These profiles
will help the Bank work with each country to determine what interventions and policies will be
most effective in broadening prosperity.
     The World Bank’s Open Data agenda was enhanced in fiscal 2014 by the launch and
maintenance of numerous publicly available datasets. Examples include the creation


24      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
                                                                  MALI  Dominic Chavez/The World Bank




of a multilingual version of the DataBank and the production of Enterprise Surveys and
International Debt Statistics. This year, more of the World Development Indicators also went
fully online. (See data.worldbank.org.)
     Additionally, at the request of the Group of 20 (G-20), the World Bank and the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development provided technical assistance to
help evaluate G-20 structural reform commitments. Joint reports have assessed progress in
 the implementation of commitments made at the annual G-20 summit meetings.
     The World Bank helps client countries to open up their own data and make it accessible to
country stakeholders. In fiscal 2014, the World Bank launched the Open Budgets Portal as part
of its efforts to advance fiscal transparency and open data. The portal showcases a subset of 14
countries and state governments that have released their entire public spending datasets and
are disseminating them in accessible formats. The datasets featured in the portal are drawn
from the World Bank’s BOOST initiative—a Bank-wide effort to improve access to and use of
budget data.
     Translating its knowledge into learning is another priority. The World Bank has delivered
more than 140 e-learning courses and partnered with Coursera, a leading provider of Massive
Open Online Courses (MOOCs), to turn some of its flagship publications, including the World
Development Report, into online learning. The report titled “Turn Down the Heat: Why a 4°C
Warmer World Must Be Avoided” was turned into a MOOC and delivered to 19,000 active users
globally during a four-week period.
     Through its collaborative leadership for development program, the World Bank helps
clients to accelerate the pace and quality of reform implementation. The approach combines
team workshops with hands-on coaching and support, ensuring that clients are able to arrive
at their own solutions to complex problems while building their individual and organizational
capacity for effective implementation. This year, more than 50 client leadership teams were
trained, strengthening their skills to drive change and deliver results.
     The World Bank’s highly regarded knowledge products and reports during fiscal
2014 included the annual World Development Report, which described how improved risk
management can lead to greater gains in poverty reduction and economic development. Also
released this year was the second in a new series titled Global Financial Development Report,
which highlighted novel evidence that financial inclusion can reduce poverty and promote
shared prosperity.
     The World Bank supports the development of knowledge hubs to help facilitate knowledge
sharing at the country level. For example, in October 2013, the Bank opened the Global
Center for Islamic Finance in Istanbul, Turkey. The center is envisaged as a knowledge hub for
developing Islamic finance globally, conducting research and training, and providing technical
assistance and advisory services to World Bank client countries interested in developing Islamic
financial institutions and markets. 


             THE WORLD BANK: PROMOTING OPPORTUNIT Y, GROW TH, AND PROSPERIT Y                    25
Engaging with the world for an end to poverty


A
         s the World Bank organizes itself to deliver on the twin goals, it is deepening its contact and
         engagement with a broad range of stakeholders. This year, President Jim Yong Kim reached out
         to many global activists and development leaders. In September 2013, he was a featured speaker
at the Global Citizen Festival and called for an end to extreme poverty by 2030. The event, sponsored by
the Global Poverty Project and held in New York City’s Central Park, attracted participation by musicians,
celebrity activists, and world leaders. At the 2013 Annual Meetings, he shared the stage with Malala
Yousafzai, the 16-year-old education activist from the Swat Valley of Pakistan. The event coincided with the
UN International Day of the Girl and created a powerful global advocacy moment for girls’ education and
empowerment. And during the 2014 Spring Meetings, President Kim and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
joined Millennial activists in a call to action for theirs to be the generation to end extreme poverty.
      Over the past year, several initiatives expanded civil society participation in World Bank policy
formulation and operations. Through more than 80 policy sessions, civil society organizations provided
constructive input to the Bank’s work on topics ranging from environmental and social safeguards to energy
policy and social inclusion. In parallel, operational staff were given access to training, research, and tools
to partner and communicate effectively with civil society to enhance project outcomes. The new initiatives
and the enriched relations established as a result of the Bank staff training contributed to record attendance
at the weeklong civil society policy forum held during the Spring and Annual Meetings. Deepening and
broadening its relationship with civil society groups, the World Bank also increased strategic engagement
and dialogue with leaders of prominent faiths, the global philanthropic community, and parliamentarians.
(See worldbank.org/civilsociety, worldbank.org/foundations, and worldbank.org/parliamentarians.)
      The World Bank recognizes citizen engagement as being at the core of improving development
outcomes. This year, it has started to develop its citizen engagement strategy, which aims to achieve 100
percent beneficiary feedback in World Bank projects with clearly identifiable beneficiaries, and to scale up
results-focused and context-specific citizen engagement. The World Bank also encourages client countries to
incorporate citizen engagement mechanisms in country policies and processes. A total of 39 countries have
agreed to have civil society monitor their performance as long as it is mediated by the Global Partnership for
Social Accountability, an initiative started by the World Bank that has provided 22 grants for this purpose.
      Since 2012, the World Bank has systematically measured and tracked perceptions of its clients,
partners, and other stakeholders across the globe. The Country Opinion Survey (COS) Program surveys
stakeholders from nearly all client countries about the effectiveness and relevance of the Bank’s work. The
Bank will use the survey results to help it solve big development challenges and to make difficult decisions
about the allocation of resources.
      In the most recent COS data available, for fiscal 2013, stakeholders who said that they collaborate with
the World Bank were significantly more positive about every area related to the Bank’s work than those who
did not collaborate. These areas included the technical quality of the Bank’s knowledge work and the Bank’s
overall effectiveness, relevance, openness, and responsiveness. A plurality of respondents suggested that
the Bank can enhance its value to countries by reaching out more to groups outside of government and
reducing the complexity of obtaining Bank financing. The COS findings are live on its new website, where
data from the past two years are available externally as part of the World Bank’s Open Access Policy.
(See countrysurveys.worldbank.org.)




    Similarly, the World Bank supports substantive South-South cooperation in ways to expand
economic growth. The new Lesotho Trade Portal—launched in March 2014—was developed
through a bilateral agreement between Lesotho and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
which had launched its own trade portal in 2012 with the assistance of the World Bank. The
Lesotho portal is a single, online source for all trade-related laws for importing and exporting,
and bolsters the transparency of Lesotho’s trade environment.
    In addition, middle-income countries requiring services that cannot be fully funded by
the World Bank’s own resources are increasingly using Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS).
A key feature of the Knowledge Agenda, RAS agreements allow the Bank to provide clients—
including governments, nongovernmental organizations, and multilateral institutions—with
analytic and advisory services to help advance their development objectives. In fiscal 2014, the
Bank is projected to have generated $79 million in RAS revenues and have engagements in
over 40 countries.
    Obtaining client feedback is a key aspect of strengthening the institution’s focus on
solutions. In 2012, the World Bank began systematically surveying governments and individuals
on the knowledge services they have received and used. The Annual Client Feedback Exercise


26       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Creating lasting value: A sustainable World Bank


S
      ustainability is an overarching theme that frames the twin goals of the World Bank Group. A
      sustainable path to eradicate poverty and promote shared prosperity would be one that manages the
      resources of the planet for future generations, ensures social inclusion, and adopts fiscally responsible
policies that limit future debt burden.
      As a global development institution, clients recognize the World Bank as a valuable partner providing
financial and advisory services that help them achieve their development goals. The very nature of the World
Bank’s mission is to have a positive effect on communities, through investments in education, health, public
administration, infrastructure, financial and private sector development, agriculture, and environmental and
natural resource management. But what makes the Bank unique is its business model, which blends

•  a focus on sustainability,
•  an emphasis on open development and stakeholder inclusiveness,
•  the promotion of staff diversity and well-being, and
•  the efficient management of its internal footprint.

     Details are published in the Bank’s annual Sustainability Review. Complementing the financial and
operational data presented in this Annual Report, the Sustainability Review summarizes how the World
Bank’s business model works; how its board, staff, and borrowers are held accountable; how its operations
create value; and how it manages its own corporate footprint. The 2014 review uses a standard framework
provided by the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which
require the Bank to define what matters most for it to report on, based on stakeholder opinion and its
impact in the world. (See crinfo.worldbank.org.)




is pivotal to the Bank’s approach for measuring the quality, results, and impact of its Knowledge
and Advisory Services, and is now a regular part of the portfolio monitoring to ensure that the
Bank takes on board clients’ feedback.

Ensuring accountability at the World Bank
To ensure the highest accountability in development, the World Bank works to deter
corruption and prevent integrity risk to the activities it finances, particularly in fragile contexts
and high-risk sectors. As of June 30, 2014, the World Bank sanctioned 101 entities, including
affiliates and conditional nondebarred entities. Some of these sanctions were the result of
settlements under which entities are debarred for an agreed-upon period of time, with a
mitigated sanction, and usually commit to implementing a compliance program. The Bank is
engaging with 36 major entities to track compliance with the Integrity Compliance Guidelines
before the end of their debarment period.
     Under the cross-debarment agreement, entities debarred by one multilateral development
bank may be sanctioned for the same misconduct by the other participating development
banks. Currently, the total number of cross-debarments sought among cross-debarment
signatories is 121. (See worldbank.org/integrity.)
     The World Bank also holds itself internally accountable to its clients and shareholders
through independent evaluations of its work. The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG), which
reports directly to the Board of Executive Directors, completed several major evaluations of
the Bank’s work in 2014 that contribute to enhanced accountability for results and learning on
what works.
     IEG found that the overall portfolio performance continued to decline, driven by lower
outcome ratings of investment projects. In contrast, the outcome ratings of development
policy operations and project performance in fragile and conflict-affected situations improved.
IEG recognized the measures that have already been undertaken by management to reverse
the negative trend in investment lending. It also found that overly ambitious strategies
relative to country capacity and to weak monitoring and evaluation frameworks, among
other factors, limited the achievement of desired country program objectives. As input to the
implementation of the World Bank Group Strategy, IEG identified the following four areas for
attention: client focus and country ownership, product excellence, informed risk management,
and adequate financing.


                THE WORLD BANK: PROMOTING OPPORTUNIT Y, GROW TH, AND PROSPERIT Y                            27
    Several evaluations have contributed to the corporate reform agenda. The report titled
“Learning and Results in World Bank Operations” focused on how well the World Bank has
generated, accessed, and used learning and knowledge in its lending operations. An
evaluation of the Bank’s procurement systems and practices informed the World Bank’s
ongoing self-assessment of its procurement system and provides suggestions for future
directions. (See ieg.worldbank.org.)
    The World Bank continues to be a leader in global transparency through its Access to
Information Policy. This policy, implemented in 2010, recognizes the right to a two-level
appeals process when a request for information is denied. In keeping with its commitment to
transparency, accountability, and results, the Bank continues to work with local stakeholders to
maximize the outreach and impact of this policy. (See worldbank.org/wbaccess.)
    Additionally, the World Bank accounts for its external impact by committing to the
continual management of its environmental and social resources. As part of this commitment,
the Bank measures, reduces, offsets, and reports on the greenhouse gas emissions associated
with its global facilities, major meetings, and air travel.
    Total emissions for the World Bank’s global facilities, including those for business travel and
major meetings, were approximately 185,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent in fiscal
2013, the most recent data available. The Bank has set a goal of reducing its greenhouse gas
emissions from owned and managed offices by 2017 to 10 percent below its 2010 baseline.
To maintain carbon neutrality, the World Bank purchases offsets for corporate emissions
that cannot be reduced—Certified Emission Reduction credits for facilities and travel and
Renewable Energy Certificates for electricity consumption. In fiscal 2014, the Bank maintained
carbon neutrality with the purchase of Certified Emission Reductions from Clean Development
Mechanism projects in Brazil, China, and Nepal.

Generating citizen action to end poverty
Reaching the goals of ending poverty and boosting shared prosperity—and ensuring that
future generations will share in broader prosperity—is a realistic objective. Citizens around
the world are already driving change in their communities and developing innovative ideas
to address some of the toughest challenges their countries face. The institutions of the World
Bank Group are committed to using their financial instruments, data, knowledge, and solutions
to highlight innovations and catalyze this action to end poverty. It will take a global movement
to end poverty, and in supporting and working alongside stakeholders around the world, the
Bank can fully realize the twin goals.




28       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
The Regions
The World Bank today operates out of more than 130 offices worldwide. An increased
presence in client countries is helping the Bank to better understand, work more effectively
with, and provide more timely services to its partners in those countries. Ninety-one
percent of Country Directors/Country Managers and 38 percent of staff are based in
country offices. The Bank’s work in its six geographic regions is as diverse as the member
countries within each region. The following section highlights the major goals achieved,
projects undertaken, strategies revised, and publications produced in fiscal 2014. Selected
project stories are also presented, along with a snapshot of facts and figures about each
region. For more information, visit worldbank.org/countries.

TABLE 5
COMMITMENTS, FISCAL 2014
	                                               IBRD		                                IDA	
Region	                                      ($ millions)	 Share (%)	            ($ millions)	      Share (%)

Africa	  420	  2%	                                                                  10,193	 46%
East Asia and Pacific	 4,181	 22%	 2,131	 10%
Europe and Central Asia	 4,729	 25%	  798a	  4%
Latin America and the Caribbean	 4,609	 25%	  460	  2%
Middle East and North Africa	 2,588	 14%	  199	  1%
South Asia	 2,077	 12%	 8,458a	 38%
Total	                                          18,604	100%	22,239	100%
a.  The South Asia figure includes one multiregional project of $527 million, of which 17 percent was provided
to Europe and Central Asia countries.


TABLE 6
DISBURSEMENTS, FISCAL 2014
	                                               IBRD		                                IDA	
Region	                                      ($ millions)	 Share (%)	            ($ millions)	      Share (%)

Africa	                                            334	 2%	6,604	49%
East Asia and Pacific	                           3,397	             18%	             1,459	            11%
Europe and Central Asia	                         6,537	             35%	               519	              4%
Latin America and the Caribbean	                 5,662	             30%	               306	              2%
Middle East and North Africa	                    1,666	              9%	               273	              2%
South Asia	                                      1,165	              6%	             4,271	            32%
Total	                                          18,761	100%	13,432	 100%


                                                                                       THE REGIONS               29
                                                                 RWANDA  Amelody Lee/The World Bank



Africa
Sub-Saharan Africa continued to grow strongly in 2013, with output increasing by 4.7 percent.
Excluding South Africa, growth was 6.0 percent, well above the global gross domestic product
(GDP) average of 2.4 percent. The region is expected to remain one of the world’s fastest
growing, with its GDP projected to rise to above 5.0 percent in 2015–16.
    The share of people living on less than $1.25 a day declined from an estimated 58 percent
to 48.5 percent between 1996 and 2010. If recent trends of a 1 percent per year decline are
sustained, poverty rates will fall below 30 percent by 2030.

World Bank assistance
Bank assistance to Africa reached a record high this fiscal year with the approval of $10.6 billion
for 141 projects. Support included $420 million from IBRD and $10.2 billion from IDA. The
leading sectors were Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($2.1 billion); Energy and Mining
($1.9 billion); and Transportation ($1.5 billion).

Furthering agricultural productivity
The Bank supports country-led efforts to improve agricultural productivity by linking farmers
to markets and reducing risk and vulnerability, to increase rural employment, and to make
agriculture more environmentally sustainable. This fiscal year, it provided more than $1.1 billion
in agricultural assistance to Sub-Saharan Africa, a 33 percent increase over the past two years.
Priority projects included support in Ethiopia for improving pastoralism through community
development and livelihoods, and support subregionally for promoting agribusiness in Senegal
and meeting food security and emergency needs in the Central African Republic and Madagascar.
     Irrigation is vital. Only 20 percent of the Sahel’s irrigation potential has been developed,
preventing farmers from producing greater harvests. At a ministerial conference held in Dakar in
October 2013, African countries, the Bank, and its development partners committed to bringing
more irrigation to the Sahel lands, to double irrigated coverage to 1 million hectares by 2020.
     The African Union Commission designated 2014 the “Year of Agriculture and Food
Security.” To further highlight agriculture’s importance, the Bank is working to increase support
for the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP), which helps
African countries to increase their economic growth through agriculture-led development.

Turning on the lights
Only one in three Africans has access to electricity. Increasing access to affordable, reliable, and
sustainable energy is a primary objective of the Bank’s work in Africa’s energy sector, support
to which reached nearly $2.0 billion this fiscal year. The Bank supports governments’ efforts to
develop and implement sustainable business strategies for utilities in Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea,
Kenya, Liberia, Senegal, and Uganda.
    Sub-Saharan Africa is blessed with large hydropower resources that can create electricity,
yet only 10 percent of its potential has been mobilized. Hydropower projects—such as
Rusumo Falls in Burundi, Rwanda, and Tanzania and the Jiji-Mulembwe in Burundi—will
increase generation capacity, benefiting millions of Africans.


30       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Countries eligible for World Bank borrowing*
Angola                  Chad                       The Gambia        Mali                      Senegal
Benin                   Comoros                    Ghana             Mauritania                Seychelles
Botswana                Democratic Republic        Guinea            Mauritius                 Sierra Leone
Burkina Faso            of Congo                   Guinea-Bissau     Mozambique                South Africa
Burundi                 Republic of Congo          Kenya             Namibia                   South Sudan
Cabo Verde              Côte d’Ivoire              Lesotho           Niger                     Swaziland
Cameroon                Equatorial Guinea          Liberia           Nigeria                   Tanzania
Central African         Ethiopia                   Madagascar        Rwanda                    Togo
Republic                Gabon                      Malawi            São Tomé and              Uganda
                                                                     Príncipe                  Zambia
* as of June 30, 2014




     In May 2014, the Bank approved up to $261 million in IDA guarantees to Mali, Mauritania,
and Senegal, and approved $585 million in MIGA investment guarantees to support the Banda
gas-to-power project to produce and convert natural gas from offshore gas fields in Mauritania
into 300 megawatts of new electricity. This first-of-its-kind combination of guarantees also
mobilizes $950 million of private investment in gas extraction and energy generation by
facilitating power trade among Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal.
     In a major push, IBRD, IFC, and MIGA combined forces under a joint Energy Business
Plan for Nigeria. The plan will support Nigeria’s energy reform program and help to increase
installed generation capacity by about 1,000 megawatts while mobilizing nearly $1.7 billion of
private sector financing for Africa’s largest economy.

Advancing higher education
Higher education plays a key role in promoting economic growth and development, especially
for Africa’s fast-growing youth population. As one of the largest financiers of higher education
in the region, the Bank is mobilizing its knowledge and leadership behind countries to
champion education.
     The World Bank’s new $150 million Africa Higher-Education Centers of Excellence Project
is funding 19 university-based centers for advanced education in West and Central Africa. It
will support regional specialization among participating universities in mathematics, science,
engineering, and information and communication technology (ICT) to address regional challenges.
     The Bank has long supported Africa’s new partners—Brazil, China, India, and the Republic
of Korea—in their development. In July 2013, it proposed that these same countries and Japan
create a Partnership for Skills in Applied Sciences, Engineering, and Technology (PASET) to work
toward closing skills gaps among Africa’s workforce. The first phase of the new South-South
knowledge partnership will involve Ethiopia, Guinea, Liberia, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda,
Senegal, Sudan, and Tanzania.

Building resilience in the Sahel and the Central African Republic
Signaling its commitment to addressing the drivers of conflict, instability, and poverty in
Africa’s hard-hit Sahel region, the World Bank Group pledged $1.5 billion for regional programs
to reduce vulnerability and strengthen the resilience of the region’s people and to promote
economic opportunity through deeper regional integration and cooperation. The funding will
expand clean energy production and trade, strengthen the livelihoods of pastoral populations,
increase agricultural productivity through more irrigation and new technology, expand health
services for women and girls, and improve regional communications and ICT connectivity
between countries.

TABLE 7  AFRICA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2012–14

                                 Commitments ($ millions)                    Disbursements ($ millions)
                          FY12            FY13              FY14      FY12             FY13               FY14
         IBRD             $147             $42              $420      $488             $429               $334
          IDA             $7,379          $8,203           $10,193   $5,746           $5,799           $6,604
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2014: $46.6 billion.

                                                                                       THE REGIONS               31
                                   Senegal River Basin Multi-Purpose Water
                                   Resources Development Project
                                     Near the village of Sadel, the markets that line the Senegal River are
                                     bustling. Thanks to improved irrigation, Sadel’s communities sell
                                     watermelons, squash, tomatoes, even rice, and the river is full of perch.
                                     Local people earn their livelihoods almost entirely from the river’s
resources. Yet, irrigation systems needed to grow more food and fight poverty and hunger can also serve
as breeding sites for mosquitoes that transmit malaria. Tackling this challenge requires interventions in the
health and irrigation sectors, including supporting disease-control activities associated with water and how
it is used to irrigate crops.
     In 2006, the World Bank launched the Senegal River Basin Multi-Purpose Water Resources Development
Project, a regional, multisector water resources improvement program that focuses on fisheries, irrigation,
and health in Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal. The Bank has continued its long-term commitment by
extending this project into a second phase, which was approved in December 2013.
     The most compelling result has been the improvement of local health. Malaria and neglected tropical
diseases have been particularly problematic in the basin, affecting people’s ability to work and attend
school and affecting maternal and child health and survival. The distribution of 3.1 million insecticide-
treated mosquito nets to cover about 5.6 million people has produced striking results. Net use has increased
dramatically, from 28 percent in 2009 to 46 percent in 2012, in an area largely populated by poor farmers
and their families. In the Sahel, providing integrated solutions is helping to protect vulnerable people from
the ravages of malaria while simultaneously improving their livelihoods.

Photo taken by Sarah Farhat/The World Bank.



     Following the conflict in the Central African Republic, which displaced more than 25
percent of the population, the Bank put together a $100 million emergency response package.
In fiscal 2014, two operations were approved totaling $50 million of the overall commitment.
One supports targeted food distribution and restoring food production capacity, and the other
supports the resumption of core public administration, including social services.

FIGURE 1  AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $10.6 BILLION

Education                                 7%             18%                                Energy and Mining

                                                                 4%                                    Finance
Agriculture, Fishing,                                                                         Health and Other
and Forestry                        11%                               9%                        Social Services
                                                                      5%                     Industry and Trade
Water, Sanitation,
                                                                        1% Information and Communications
and Flood Protection                12%


Transportation                                  14%         20%          Public Administration, Law, and Justice


FIGURE 2  AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $10.6 BILLION

Rule of Law                               < 1%          16%                                Rural Development

                                                                                         Social Development,
Public Sector Governance                 8%
                                                                   2%                   Gender, and Inclusion
                                                                                             Social Protection
Human Development                  11%                                   10%            and Risk Management
                                                                      7%                 Trade and Integration
Financial and Private
Sector Development                   19%                           13%                    Urban Development

Environment and Natural
Resources Management                            11%           1%                      Economic Management


                                                                                     THE REGIONS            32
TABLE 8  AFRICA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                               664                757                936
   Population growth (annual %)                              2.7                2.7                 2.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)                495                776               1,624
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          0.7                2.8                 1.5
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                            376b                395                414
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  51                 53                 58
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    49                 51                 55
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                62                —                   64
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  76                —                   75
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              62                 63                 63
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              77                 76                 76
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              12                 16                 22
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                       551                628                704
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             0.8                0.8                 0.8
   (metric tons)


PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
                                                           1990               Current              2015                    Trend +
   MDG
                                                          baseline             dataa              target                 2015 target
   MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             56.5               48.5                28.3
   below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
   MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              54                 70                 100
   age group)
   MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              82                 90                 100
   secondary education (%)
   MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                             107                 64                  36
   births)

   MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                177                 98                  59

   MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             990                 510                248
   estimate, per 100,000 live births)
   MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              48                 64                  74
   (% population with access)
   MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              24                 30                  62
   (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2013; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                                                                                THE REGIONS            33
                                                           PHILIPPINES  Dennis Sabangan/The World Bank



East Asia and Pacific
East Asia and Pacific remained the fastest-growing region in the world in 2013, accounting
for more than 40 percent of the increase in global output. China’s annual growth remained at
7.7 percent, while growth in other developing economies in the region fell to 5.3 percent,
down from 6.3 percent in 2012. Total growth in developing countries of the region is expected
to remain about 7.0 percent through 2016.
    In the short term, the region’s developing countries navigated the global economic crisis
successfully, maintaining high growth. In the midterm, ensuring sustainable and inclusive
growth is a major challenge for the region that will require raising productivity and addressing
wide-ranging vulnerabilities.
    The proportion of people in the region living in poverty declined steadily over the past
25 years. However, nearly 140 million (7 percent) of its 2 billion people still live on less than
$1.25 a day, and another 300 million (15 percent) live on incomes between $1.25 and $2.00
a day.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $6.3 billion for the region for 56 projects this fiscal year. Support included
$4.2 billion in IBRD loans and $2.1 billion in IDA commitments. The leading sectors were
Transportation ($1.9 billion); Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.3 billion); and Energy
and Mining ($827 million).
     The Bank’s strategy in the region focuses on five priority areas: inclusion and empower­
ment, jobs and private sector–led growth, governance and institutions, infrastructure and
urbanization, and climate change and disaster risk management. Growth and job creation are
critical to reducing poverty and building shared prosperity, particularly because of the high
rates of youth unemployment and the informality of the labor market in the region. The Bank
also focuses on the cross-cutting themes of gender, fragility and conflict, and poverty analytics.
     The region faces huge infrastructure needs and rapid urbanization. As many as 130 million
people have no access to power, and 600 million lack access to adequate sanitation. Rapid
migration to cities is putting pressure on service delivery and leading to large urban slums,
pollution, and environmental degradation. More than 70 percent of the world’s natural
disasters occur in the region, home to 13 of the world’s 30 most-climate-affected countries.

Reengaging with Myanmar
A key priority in fiscal 2014 was to continue the reengagement with Myanmar that began in
2012 after a 25-year absence. In December 2013, Myanmar became the 180th member of the
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), entitling it to MIGA support to investments
in sectors such as energy, telecommunications, and agribusiness.
    During his first official visit to the country, in January 2014, President Jim Yong Kim
announced a $2 billion World Bank Group package that harnesses the expertise and resources
of the Bank Group to support the government’s multiyear investment program. The package
includes the delivery of universal health care and access to electricity by 2030.




34      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Countries eligible for World Bank borrowing*
Cambodia                Republic of Korea          Federated States of   Papua New Guinea          Timor-Leste
China                   Lao People’s               Micronesia            Philippines               Tonga
Fiji                    Democratic Republic        Mongolia              Samoa                     Tuvalu
Indonesia               Malaysia                   Myanmar               Solomon Islands           Vanuatu
Kiribati                Marshall Islands           Palau                 Thailand                  Vietnam




* as of June 30, 2014




Confronting vulnerability in the Pacific
The Bank has been scaling up its effort to assist Pacific Island countries in addressing their
vulnerability to economic and natural shocks. These shocks result from the islands’ high
exposure to natural disasters as well as from their small size and geographical isolation.
     To support recovery after Tropical Cyclone Ian struck in January 2014, the Bank provided
$10 million in emergency grants and credits from IDA’s Crisis Response Window, and the
innovative Pacific Catastrophe Risk Insurance Pilot project made a first payout of $1.3 million to
Tonga to cover initial emergencies. Six Pacific Island countries—the Cook Islands, the Marshall
Islands, Samoa, the Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Vanuatu—participate in this pilot, which
insures key public assets and helps Pacific Island countries quickly access postdisaster funding.
Partners include the Asian Development Bank, the government of Japan, and the Global
Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery.
     In fiscal 2014, the World Bank published Hardship and Vulnerability in the Pacific Island
Countries: A Regional Companion to the World Development Report 2014. This book provides the
first comprehensive analysis of hardship and vulnerability in these countries in more than a
decade.

Strengthening knowledge partnerships to deliver solutions
Knowledge continues to be a strategic priority in the Bank’s partnerships. This fiscal year, the
Bank and the Development Research Center of China’s State Council published a seminal study
on urbanization titled Urban China: Toward Efficient, Inclusive, and Sustainable Urbanization. The
report is already having an impact on the country’s urbanization process. It contains many
lessons for other countries facing similar challenges.
     In December 2013, the Bank opened a new office in Songdo, Republic of Korea, and a
liaison office in Seoul to support a broad range of development partnership opportunities to
leverage Korea’s expertise in areas such as economic development policy, information and
communication technology, infrastructure, and the financial sector. The Bank also announced
plans to open an office in Kuala Lumpur, deepening its relationship with Malaysia.
     The Bank continues to build partnerships with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN), the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), the Pacific Island Forum, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), the Australian Government Overseas Aid Program (AusAID), the
Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), and many other organizations to maximize
development impact.



TABLE 9  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2012–14

                                 Commitments ($ millions)                        Disbursements ($ millions)
                          FY12            FY13               FY14         FY12             FY13               FY14
         IBRD             $5,431          $3,661            $4,181       $3,970           $3,621           $3,397
          IDA             $1,197          $2,586            $2,131       $1,484           $1,764           $1,459
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2014: $30.5 billion.

                                                                                           THE REGIONS               35
                                   Saving lives, reducing poverty, and
                                   enhancing quality of life in the Philippines
                                    Since its inception in 2002, a World Bank–supported, community-
                                    driven development project in the poorest municipalities and provinces
                                    in the Philippines has benefited more than 1.6 million households.
The Kapitbisig Laban sa Kahirapan–Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services
(KALAHI-CIDSS) Project has helped poor communities to select, implement, and sustain some 6,000
small-scale infrastructure projects, including roads, footbridges, water supplies, school buildings, health
clinics, daycare centers, and community enterprise activities. The project gives poor people a voice in the
development process and helps communities to learn how to engage with their local governments.
    The KALAHI-CIDSS Project has had a measurable effect on people’s lives. One of its projects—a seawall
in Ajuy, Iloilo—saved lives when Super Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) devastated parts of the country in
November 2013. Overall, according to an impact evaluation, consumption by project beneficiaries rose
about 12 percent, and access to basic services was 9 percentage points higher in beneficiary villages than in
nonbeneficiary villages.
    Given these results, the government decided to expand KALAHI-CIDSS into what is now called the
National Community-Driven Development Project. In February 2014, the Bank approved a $479 million
loan to support the new effort, which seeks to empower communities in targeted municipalities to
achieve improved access to services and to participate in more-inclusive local planning, budgeting, and
implementation. The government hopes that expanding this project will reduce rural poverty while
responding to the needs of the survivors of Super Typhoon Haiyan.

Photo taken by David Llorico Llorito/The World Bank.




FIGURE 3  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.3 BILLION

Education                                       9%      13%                                  Energy and Mining

Agriculture, Fishing,                                            1%                                     Finance
and Forestry                            9%
                                                                    8%          Health and Other Social Services
Water, Sanitation,
and Flood Protection                 5%                                    4%                Industry and Trade

                                                                                                 Information
                                                                         1%               and Communications

                                                                                          Public Administration,
Transportation                                   30%           20%                              Law, and Justice




FIGURE 4  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.3 BILLION

Rule of Law                                      0%       13%                              Rural Development
                                                                                 Sector Development, Gender,
Public Sector Governance                  11%                   5%                             and Inclusion
                                                                                          Social Protection and
Human Development                   12%                              10%                     Risk Management
                                                                      3%                 Trade and Integration

                                                                     14%                  Urban Development
                                                                 < 1%                  Economic Management
Financial and Private                                                                 Environment and Natural
Sector Development                           22%            11%                        Resources Management




                                                                                     THE REGIONS            36
TABLE 10  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                         Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                              1,812              1,893              2,006
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.0                0.8                 0.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)                905               1,629              5,536
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          5.9                8.8                 6.4
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                            656b                332                251
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  73                 74                 76
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    69                 71                 72
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                98                —                   99
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  98                —                   99
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              67                 64                 63
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              83                 80                 79
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              17                 17                 19
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      4,213              6,854              9,571
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             2.3                3.6                 4.9
   (metric tons)


PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
  MDG
                                                          baseline            dataa               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             56.2               12.5               28.1
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              99                105                 100                  Met at outset
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              88                100                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              45                 17                 15
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                  59                 21                 20

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             170                 75                 43
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              68                 91                 84
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              30                 67                 65
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2013; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                                                                                THE REGIONS              37
                                                 ARMENIA  Hakob Hovhannisyan/Altera LCC/The World Bank



Europe and Central Asia
The 2009 global economic crisis hit Europe and Central Asia harder than any other region, and
the recovery has been slower than elsewhere. Although a modest rebound has occurred since
2010, growth has been slower than in all other developing regions. Broader regional GDP—
including newly high-income countries—grew just 2.2 percent in 2013, and even slower
growth of 1.7 percent is projected for 2014.
    Poverty remains throughout Europe and Central Asia when measured at regional
thresholds. Because of the harsh climatic conditions, the higher cost of subsistence—including
for heating, clothing, and shelter—makes it almost impossible to survive on $1.25 a day. The
poverty threshold for the region is $5.00 a day, and the extreme poverty threshold is $2.50 a
day. At these thresholds, an estimated 15 percent of the population (about 65 million people)
are poor, and 3.5 percent (about 15.5 million people) are extremely poor (2012 estimates as of
July 16, 2014).

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $5.5 billion in lending to the region for 43 projects this fiscal year. Support
included $4.7 billion in IBRD loans and $798 million in IDA commitments. The leading sectors
were Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.7 billion); Energy and Mining ($1.2 billion); and
Health and Other Social Services ($552 million).
    The Bank signed 36 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with 13 countries in the
region. The agreements address pension reform, education, capacity building, governance,
infrastructure investments, and other issues.
    The region’s strategy focuses on two main areas of intervention: competitiveness and
shared prosperity through jobs and environmental, social, and fiscal sustainability. Governance
and gender continue to be thematic priorities under interventions of both pillars.

Increasing competitiveness and shared prosperity through jobs
The Bank is supporting competitiveness and job creation in the region in many ways. It has
increased access to finance for small and medium enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina and
in Croatia; helped to improve skills and increase labor market flexibility in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia; invested in infrastructure in Azerbaijan and Ukraine; strengthened
financial sector regulations, the business environment, and policies conducive to innovation
in FYR Macedonia and Serbia; and offered advice on innovation, trade, and logistics systems in
Poland and Turkey.
    The Bank published several important reports on the region. Shared Prosperity: Paving the
Way in Europe and Central Asia combines macroeconomic drivers (aggregate growth, factor
returns, and relative prices) and microeconomic characteristics (particularly assets owned by
individuals) to explain income growth among the bottom 40 percent of the population in
different parts of the region. It suggests a new approach to development that combines the
quest for economic growth with a concern for equity, in recognition of the fact that at least
in the long run, the two reinforce each other.
    Back to Work: Growing with Jobs in Europe and Central Asia recommends actions in two
broad policy areas. The first is establishing an enabling macroeconomic and business
environment that allows existing firms to grow and new firms to emerge and succeed or

38      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Countries eligible for World Bank borrowing*
Albania                 Bulgaria             Kyrgyz Republic         Poland                        Turkey
Armenia                 Croatia              Former Yugoslav         Romania                       Turkmenistan
Azerbaijan              Georgia              Republic of             Russian Federation            Ukraine
                                             Macedonia
Belarus                 Kazakhstan                                   Serbia                        Uzbekistan
                                             Moldova
Bosnia and              Kosovo                                       Tajikistan
Herzegovina                                  Montenegro




* as of June 30, 2014




to fail quickly and at low cost. The second is helping workers to tap new job opportunities
by equipping them with the right skills and work incentives, unhindered access to the labor
market, and the ability to move to places that offer more or better job opportunities.

Improving social protection and increasing social cohesion
The Bank works with countries in designing and implementing reforms to improve the
efficiency and fiscal sustainability of their pension, social protection, and health care systems.
Its report titled The Inverting Pyramid: Pension Systems Facing Demographic Challenges in Europe
and Central Asia documents how pension systems in the region are facing increasing pressures
from aging populations and shrinking labor forces. These changes require comprehensive,
long-term, and socially sustainable reforms to pension systems so that they can protect the
elderly poor and future generations.
      The Bank is supporting Armenia and Croatia in their efforts to improve the efficiency and
fiscal sustainability of their safety net and pension systems. It is helping to improve health
care systems in Bulgaria, Croatia, Kosovo, Moldova, Romania, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. The
Bank is working to strengthen social cohesion by supporting community-driven development
and social accountability in the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan. In Romania and elsewhere,
it is helping governments to improve economic opportunities and public services for
disadvantaged communities, including the Roma and unemployed youth.

Adapting to climate change and improving energy efficiency
Climate adaptation and energy efficiency remain strategic priorities for Europe and Central
Asia, the most energy-intensive region in the world. Greater energy efficiency delivers both
environmental and economic gains. In Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Turkey, the
Bank is working to achieve these gains through policy reforms (such as energy pricing) and
investments in both public infrastructure and private industry, including renewable energy
and energy efficiency. The cumulative energy savings from the portfolio of Bank projects in the
region is comparable to taking 1.4 million cars off the roads.
    The Bank is also working with client countries as they adapt to climate change. It is
supporting flood recovery and protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia following
the catastrophic floods of May; improved water resource management (flood protection,
water-loss reduction, irrigation efficiency) in Kazakhstan; climate-smart agriculture (switching
to more-resilient crops) in Tajikistan; and improved institutional capacity for better weather
forecasting and climate change monitoring in the Russian Federation.


TABLE 11  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2012–14

                                   Commitments ($ millions)                      Disbursements ($ millions)
                            FY12            FY13              FY14        FY12             FY13               FY14
         IBRD              $6,233           $4,591        $4,729         $5,654           $3,583          $6,537
          IDA               $362            $729              $798        $482             $468               $519
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2014: $26.6 billion.

                                                                                           THE REGIONS               39
                                   Responding to the urgent crisis in Ukraine
                                   In response to the crisis in Ukraine, the World Bank Group has stepped
                                   up its assistance to help stabilize the economy and support the delivery
                                   of critical public services. In May 2014, the Board approved a total of
                                   $1.4 billion in IBRD loans, including two large investment operations
                                   to improve municipal service delivery and a $750 million multisector
Development Policy Loan. In addition, the Board approved a $250 million IFC investment project in
support of a private sector poultry company. These four projects are part of the World Bank Group’s overall
assistance to Ukraine announced in March 2014, which aims to provide up to $3.5 billion by the end of 2014.
    The Ukrainian government has developed a comprehensive program of reforms, which it is committed
to undertake with support from the World Bank Group. The country’s leaders are determined to improve
public services, strengthen the banking sector, reform the energy sector, seriously tackle corruption and
improve accountability, enhance the investment climate, and better target social assistance toward the poor
and the vulnerable—and the Bank is determined to help them.

Photo taken by Dmytro Derkach/The World Bank.




    To facilitate the exchange of ideas and solutions for addressing climate change, the
Bank holds an annual Central Asia Climate Knowledge Forum. The second forum, held in
May 2014, brought together nearly 200 policy makers and practitioners from government,
national and regional learning institutions, universities, civil society organizations, development
partners, international organizations, and other stakeholders interested in climate-resilient
development. The forum concluded with a call from all five Central Asian countries for a
regional program on climate resilience, to be prepared by the World Bank in partnership with
Central Asian countries and development partners.



FIGURE 5  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.5 BILLION

Public Administration, Law, and Justice         31%

Information and Communications      < 1%
                                                                  2%                         Transportation
Industry and Trade                    8%                                                  Water, Sanitation,
                                                                   9%                  and Flood Protection
Health and Other
                                                                                        Agriculture, Fishing,
Social Services                     10%                            8%                          and Forestry

                                                                   2%                             Education

Finance                                    8%          22%                               Energy and Mining



FIGURE 6  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.5 BILLION

Human Development                               12%       19%                    Public Sector Governance



                                                                  1%                            Rule of Law
Financial and Private
Sector Development                  25%
                                                                   11%                 Rural Development

Environment and Natural                                                               Social Development,
Resources Management                      4%                      0%                 Gender, and Inclusion
                                                                                     Social Protection and
Economic Management                        6%                     7%                     Risk Management
Urban Development                               14%          1%                      Trade and Integration



                                                                                  THE REGIONS            40
TABLE 12  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                               256                260                272
   Population growth (annual %)                              0.3                0.4                 0.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)               1,908              3,494              7,086
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          5.5                6.6                 3.2
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                             18b                 6                   3
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  73                 74                 76
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    65                 66                 69
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                98                —                   99
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  99                —                  100
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              46                 44                 46
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              69                 67                 69
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              7                  11                 17
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      1,191              1,308              1,417
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             4.6                5.0                 5.3
   (metric tons)


PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
  MDG
                                                          baseline            dataa               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                              1.9                0.7                1.0
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              96                 99                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              95                 98                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              44                 19                 15
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                  56                 22                 19

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                              61                 28                 15
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              88                 95                 94
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              87                 94                 94
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2013; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                                                                                THE REGIONS            41
                                                         COSTA RICA  Cynthia Flores Mora/The World Bank



Latin America and the Caribbean
Economic activity in Latin America and the Caribbean has been weak, reflecting stable or
declining commodity prices, weak activity in the United States in the first quarter of 2014, and
domestic challenges. Assuming the volume of regional exports to high-income countries
strengthens and capital inflows remain strong, regional growth should rise from 1.9 percent in
2014 to 2.9 percent in 2015 and 3.5 percent in 2016. Because the region is encountering supply
bottlenecks, sustaining robust growth over the long term will increasingly become a challenge
unless productivity-enhancing reforms are stepped up.
    Given the level of economic development in the region, the consumption levels used to
define poverty are $2.50 and $4.00 a day. Based on these metrics, about 80 million people in
the region emerged from poverty in the past decade. The rate of extreme poverty (the share
of people living on or below $2.50 a day) was halved, to 12 percent, between 2003 and 2012,
and the rate of moderate poverty (the share of people living on or below $4.00 a day) fell
from 42 percent to 25 percent. The size of the region’s middle class rose to 34 percent of the
population in 2012, and persistent inequality has fallen, even as it has risen in most of the rest
of the world.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $5.1 billion for the region for 41 projects this fiscal year. Support included
$4.6 billion in IBRD loans and $460 million in IDA commitments. The leading sectors were
Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.8 billion); Transportation ($746 million); and Health
and Other Social Services ($711 million).
    The Bank tailors its diverse financial, knowledge, and convening services to the region’s
pressing needs. It addresses them through project financing; innovative mechanisms, such
as the Climate Investment Funds; and in-depth research, such as the 2013 flagship report
Latin American Entrepreneurs: Many Firms but Little Innovation. Bank support seeks to generate
opportunities for all through public and private sector initiatives that expand public services;
improve regional productivity, competitiveness, and integration; create high-quality jobs; and
assist people most in need.

Boosting shared prosperity
Despite impressive recent gains—a growing middle class and fewer poor—Latin America and
the Caribbean Region remains very unequal, with some 75 million people living on less than
$2.50 a day. Another 38 percent of people in the region remain vulnerable to falling back into
poverty. Perhaps even more worrisome is the fact that inequality reduction may be stagnating
when growth is also slowing.
    Addressing the inequality gap and creating opportunities for all is at the top of the Bank’s
regional agenda. In the Dominican Republic, the Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank are supporting a program that provides technical and life-skills training and on-the-job
internships to 38,000 poor, at-risk youth. In Nicaragua, a Bank-supported program to secure
land rights for the poor has already benefited more than 44,000 people in rural areas, more
than half of them women.



42      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Countries eligible for World Bank borrowing*
Antigua and Barbuda     Chile                      Guatemala     Panama                         Suriname
Argentina               Colombia                   Guyana        Paraguay                       Trinidad and Tobago
Belize                  Costa Rica                 Haiti         Peru                           Uruguay
Plurinational State     Dominica                   Honduras      St. Kitts and Nevis            República Bolivariana
of Bolivia              Dominican Republic         Jamaica       St. Lucia                      de Venezuela
Brazil                  Ecuador                    Mexico        St. Vincent and the
                        El Salvador                Nicaragua     Grenadines
                        Grenada


* as of June 30, 2014




Increasing productivity
The region’s extraordinary recent growth and ability to weather the 2008–09 global recession
contrast sharply with its lagging productivity in noncommodity sectors. Logistics costs are
high, infrastructure is decaying, and education does not provide the skills demanded in
the global marketplace. Logistics in the region cost two to four times more than in OECD
(Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries and the Asian Tigers.
     To improve productivity, the Bank provided analytical services to Chile to develop a
long-term strategy to spur agricultural innovation and increase agricultural productivity.
It also supported the government of Paraguay’s efforts to link small producers to market
opportunities and to improve competitiveness in specific value chains.

Making the state more efficient
Access to high-quality public services remains a challenge, and demand for better services has
risen as the middle class has grown. With support from the Bank, municipalities such as Buenos
Aires in Argentina and Rio de Janeiro in Brazil are adopting policy reforms to strengthen public
sector performance and improve the quality of public service delivery.
    Citizen security remains a development challenge for many countries in the region,
especially the small ones. The Bank is supporting governments’ efforts to find integrated
responses to crime and violence through financing as well as high-level knowledge exchanges.

Increasing disaster resilience and protecting the environment
Nine of the world’s top-20 disaster-exposed countries are in the region. Mitigating, preventing,
and dealing with disasters cost governments about $2 billion a year. Countries are increasingly
focusing on prevention. To help them do so, the Bank provides mechanisms to boost
resilience, including cutting-edge instruments such as catastrophe risk insurance.
     The region is a global showcase for innovative, environmentally friendly practices. Although
it accounts for only 5.1 percent of global greenhouse emissions, it has the cleanest energy matrix
of the developing world and has adopted payment schemes for preserving the environment.
     The economic bonanza of recent years has combined with exploding urbanization.
More than 80 percent of the region’s population now lives in cities, and the region has the
world’s fastest-growing motorization rates (4.5 percent per year). To mitigate greenhouse gas
emissions from the transport sector, the Bank provided technical assistance to a dozen cities in
the region for sustainable transport planning and development.


TABLE 13  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2012–14

                               Commitments ($ millions)                    Disbursements ($ millions)
                        FY12            FY13              FY14      FY12               FY13              FY14
         IBRD           $6,181          $4,769        $4,609       $6,726              $5,308            $5,662
          IDA           $448            $435              $460      $342               $273              $306
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2014: $28.6 billion.

                                                                                       THE REGIONS                43
                                     Increasing access to basic health services
                                     by vulnerable women and children in
                                     Argentina
                                   Basic health indicators deteriorated in Argentina after the 2001 economic
                                   crisis, when many Argentines lost their health coverage. In some of the
country’s poorer northeastern and northwestern provinces, the rate of infant mortality reached 25 per
1,000 live births.
    To address the problem, the government of Argentina developed Plan Nacer. Its goals were twofold:
to reduce infant mortality by increasing access to health care for uninsured pregnant women and children
under age six, and to improve the efficiency and quality of the public health system by introducing changes
in the incentive framework.
    A rigorous evaluation conducted last fall shows that the program was a success. The percentage of
newborns weighing more than 2,500 grams doubled, and the percentage of pregnant women receiving
prenatal care before the 20th week of pregnancy tripled. In larger maternity wards, the program reduced the
probability of in-hospital neonatal death by 22 percent for users of Plan Nacer clinics and by 74 percent for
Plan Nacer beneficiaries. About half of the reduction in deaths was attributed to better prenatal care, which
prevented low birth weight; the other half was the result of better postnatal care.
    In 2012, the Bank invested $400 million in a successor program, Plan Sumar. The new program covers
children and youth up to the age of 19, as well as uninsured women between the ages of 20 and 64. It also
expands the package of services included and adds longer-term participation goals. So far, nearly 7.4 million
people have registered for this new health plan.

Photo taken by Nahuel Berger/The World Bank.




FIGURE 7  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.1 BILLION

Education                                        13%    1%                                 Energy and Mining
                                                         2%                                           Finance
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry      5%                       14%          Health and Other Social Services
Water, Sanitation,                                                   3%                    Industry and Trade
and Flood Protection                 12%
                                                                                             Information and
                                                                      0%                    Communications


                                                                                        Public Administration,
Transportation                         15%                   36%                              Law, and Justice




FIGURE 8  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.1 BILLION

Urban Development                                15%       1%                        Economic Management

Trade and Integration                       1%                                      Environment and Natural
                                                                9%                  Resources Management
Social Protection and
Risk Management                       11%
                                                                                        Financial and Private
Social Development,                                                  3%                 Sector Development
Gender, and Inclusion                 8%                             14%               Human Development

Rural Development                      8%


Rule of Law                             0%             31%                         Public Sector Governance




                                                                                    THE REGIONS           44
TABLE 14  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                         Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                               500                536                588
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.5                1.3                 1.1
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)               4,028              4,344              9,314
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          2.5                3.1                 1.3
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                             60b                 48                 32
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  75                 76                 78
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    68                 70                 71
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                97                —                   98
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  96                —                   98
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              49                 52                 54
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              81                 81                 80
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              16                 21                 26
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      1,225              1,377              1,554
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             2.4                2.6                 2.7
   (metric tons)


PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
  MDG
                                                          baseline            dataa               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             12.2                5.5                6.1
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              82                 95                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                             101                102                 100                  Met at outset
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              44                 16                 15
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                  55                 19                 18

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             150                 87                 38
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              85                 94                 92
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              66                 81                 83
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2013; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                                                                                THE REGIONS              45
                                                        WEST BANK AND GAZA  Arne Hoel/The World Bank



Middle East and North Africa
The Middle East and North Africa remains a region in political transition. Tunisia and the
Republic of Yemen witnessed positive changes. Jordan, Morocco, and the Gulf Cooperation
Council (GCC) countries maintained stability and focused on preserving and furthering social
and economic gains. The Arab Republic of Egypt has seen the inauguration of a new president
and government, and will focus on economic and fiscal priorities. Violence increased in Iraq
and the Syrian Arab Republic, with large influxes of refugees to Lebanon and Jordan.
     Economic growth in the region is projected to resume in 2014 and reach 1.9 percent.
Oil exporters, especially the GCC countries, are expected to lead the recovery. Large stimulus
packages in the GCC states, together with increased flows of funds to the region, particularly
to Egypt and Jordan, will boost regional growth rates as capital and current spending continue
to rise.
     Extreme poverty in this region remains low. However, vulnerability to poverty is very high,
with 53 percent of the population living on just $4.00 a day.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $2.8 billion for the region for 21 projects this fiscal year. Support included
$2.6 billion in IBRD loans and $199 million in IDA commitments. The Bank also committed $68
million in special financing for five projects in the West Bank and Gaza. The top-three sectors in
lending in the region were Finance ($773 million); Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($539
million); and Transportation ($431 million).
    In addition to financing, the Bank delivered 120 economic and sector work products and
nonlending technical assistance. Among the knowledge products, one path-breaking report
investigated the extent to which nontransparent regulations and privileges allowed connected
business families to amass wealth and profits in prerevolutionary Tunisia. Another provided
a rapid assessment of the enormous social and economic impacts placed on Lebanon by
the spillover of the Syrian crisis. The region’s Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) program
provided more than $20 million of analytic and advisory services to governments in the region.
The RAS program has addressed issues including agricultural development in Algeria, labor
markets and social protection in Kuwait, and public finance management in Oman.
    The Bank’s framework for engagement in response to the Arab Spring and reform efforts
is based on four pillars—governance, inclusion, jobs, and sustainable growth—with cross-
cutting beams of regional and global integration, gender, and private sector development.
Four tactical priorities guide the Bank’s engagement in the region: scaling up financial
support through partnerships; entering into transformational engagements, particularly
with the private sector; fostering resilience to cope with fragility; and taking the institution’s
commitment to citizen engagement to the next level.

Strengthening governance
The Bank responded to one of the key demands of the Arab Spring—greater transparency and
accountability—with a robust program that includes a $250 million Second Programmatic
Development Policy Loan (DPL) in Jordan, a $200 million Accountability and Transparency
Project in Morocco, and a $250 million Governance and Accountability DPL in Tunisia.

46      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Countries eligible for World Bank borrowing*
Algeria                  Islamic Republic            Jordan             Morocco
Djibouti                 of Iran                     Lebanon            Tunisia
Arab Republic            Iraq                        Libya              Republic of Yemen
of Egypt

This section also reports on the West Bank and Gaza.




* as of June 30, 2014




Additionally, the $5.2 million Fiscal Management Reform 2 Project in Lebanon focuses on local
governance and fiscal management.

Increasing social and economic inclusion
A clear demand emanating from the Arab Spring was for greater inclusion and an end to
discriminatory practices and policies. Morocco’s $159 million Rural Water Supply and $97
million Second Rural Roads projects focus on improving rural services. Tunisia’s $26 million
Urban Water Supply project and Djibouti’s $6 million Second Urban Poverty Reduction Project
focus on disadvantaged urban areas. The $8 million Yemen Civil Society Organization (CSO)
Project focuses on ensuring that Yemeni CSOs receive the support they need to convey
the voices of youth, women, and the poor, who are often excluded from key processes and
programs. A $150 million project in Jordan is helping local communities to deal with the
impact of the massive influx of Syrian refugees (who now represent 10 percent of Jordan’s
population). A similar program is being prepared in Lebanon, where the Syrian refugee
population has reached nearly 25 percent of the country’s population.

Creating jobs
Sustainable private sector jobs are essential to the success of the transition process in this
region. Egypt’s $300 million Promoting Innovation for Inclusive Financial Access Project;
Morocco’s $300 million Capital Markets Development and Small and Medium-Size Enterprise
Finance Project; Tunisia’s $100 million Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise Development
Project; the Republic of Yemen’s $20 million Financial Infrastructure Project; and Djibouti’s
$2 million Governance for Private Sector Development Project all focus on increasing private
sector–driven employment and easing access to finance for small firms and entrepreneurs.
The innovative private sector project supporting ecotourism in the West Bank facilitated job
creation at the rural level under the Abraham Path project. The region also produced seminal,
evidence-based analytic pieces on jobs and the business environment in Egypt and Tunisia.

Accelerating sustainable growth
The Middle East and North Africa is the most water-stressed region, and climate change
represents a very real threat to long-term sustainability. While this region is responsible for
only 6.9 percent of global emissions for low- and middle-income countries, it is embracing
environmental stewardship as well as renewable energy. For example, Morocco’s $300
million Inclusive Green Growth DPL provides support to sustainable rural growth. The Mocha

TABLE 15  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2012–14

                                   Commitments ($ millions)                     Disbursements ($ millions)
                            FY12             FY13              FY14      FY12             FY13               FY14
         IBRD              $1,433           $1,809             $2,588   $1,901           $1,786          $1,666
          IDA                $80             $249              $199      $102             $200               $273
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2014: $10.6 billion.

                                                                                          THE REGIONS               47
                                   Mitigating the impact of the Syrian conflict
                                   on Jordan
                                      Since the outbreak of unrest in Syria in March 2011 and the subsequent
                                      armed conflict, millions of Syrians have left the country, most of them
                                      for the neighboring countries of Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey. An
estimated 2.7 million Syrian refugees now live outside the country (and another 6.5 million are internally
displaced). Absorbing such large numbers of refugees represents an enormous challenge for the host
countries, with significant civil, social, economic, and political implications.
    Among the most severely affected countries is Jordan, where almost 600,000 Syrian refugees currently
live. To support its efforts in receiving and caring for this massive influx, the World Bank acted quickly,
approving in July 2013 the $150 million Emergency Project to Assist Jordan Partially Mitigate Impact of Syrian
Conflict. The loan is helping to ensure that households have affordable access to commodities, such as bread
and cooking gas ($80 million); funding vaccines and medicines ($50 million); and relieving pressure on the
government’s budget for medical services ($20 million). Most of the loan had been disbursed by June 2014.
    The Bank also mobilized $50 million in grants to help Jordan address the impact of the Syrian crisis on
municipalities. The Jordan Emergency Services and Social Resilience Project—cofinanced by the Bank-
administered State and Peace Building Fund, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Switzerland—will be used
to improve living conditions in the cities and towns most affected by refugee inflows.

Photo taken by William Stebbins/The World Bank.



Wind Park is an innovative foray into alternative power for the Republic of Yemen. Further,
investments in infrastructure are critical for sustained growth and service delivery. In this
context, Iraq’s $355 million Transport Corridors Project and the Republic of Yemen’s $134
million Corridor Highway Project address national and international transport bottlenecks, and
support national and global economic integration. Further, a World Bank–IFC public-private
partnership operation for solid waste management in the West Bank and Gaza provides for
better living conditions and healthier environments, as well as recycling opportunities.

FIGURE 9  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $2.8 BILLION

Public Administration, Law, and Justice        19%         15%                                  Transportation



                                                                                         Water, Sanitation, and
                                                                     6%                      Flood Protection
Information and Communications       8%
                                                                     4%       Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry
Industry and Trade                   4%
                                                                      0%                             Education


                                                                     8%                     Energy and Mining
Health and Other Social Services          8%            28%                                            Finance


FIGURE 10  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $2.8 BILLION
                                                                                Social Development, Gender,
Rural Development                                 17%         4%                              and Inclusion
                                                                                        Social Protection and
                                                                1%                         Risk Management
Rule of Law                               7%
                                                                       9%              Trade and Integration
                                                                      1%                 Urban Development
Public Sector Governance           15%
                                                                      2%             Economic Management
                                                                                    Environment and Natural
                                                                      10%            Resources Management

                                                                                        Financial and Private
Human Development                         5%                  31%                       Sector Development


                                                                                    THE REGIONS             48
TABLE 16  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                               277                301                345
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.8                1.7                 1.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)               1,492              1,997              4,520
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          1.9                3.3                –2.2
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                             14b                 10                  8
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  71                 72                 74
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    67                 68                 69
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                80                —                   88
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  90                —                   94
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              18                 20                 20
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              74                 74                 73
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              4                  6                  16
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                       873               1,090              1,278
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             3.2                3.6                 3.9
   (metric tons)


PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
  MDG
                                                          baseline            dataa               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                              5.8                2.4                2.9
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              76                 95                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              80                 94                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              52                 21                 17
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                  68                 26                 23

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             160                 78                 40
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              87                 90                 93
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              70                 88                 85
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2013; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                                                                                THE REGIONS            49
                                                           AFGHANISTAN  Graham Crouch/The World Bank



South Asia
South Asia’s economy is projected to grow 5.3 percent in 2014 and 5.9 percent in 2015, up
from 4.7 percent in 2013. Economic growth could be held back, however, by an unstable
banking sector, inflation, fiscal deficits and debt, and persistent shortfalls in energy and
transport infrastructure across the region.
    Despite an impressive two-decade decline, extreme poverty remains high in South Asia.
About 571 million people in the region survive on less than $1.25 a day. The region accounts
for 42 percent of the world’s poor, with more than 200 million people living in slums and
half a billion people going without electricity. Extreme forms of social exclusion and huge
infrastructure gaps mark many countries, and inequality is rising in the larger countries.
Development in the region will be key to meeting global poverty and prosperity goals.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $10.5 billion for the region for 42 projects this fiscal year. Support included
$2.1 billion in IBRD loans and $8.5 billion in IDA commitments. The leading sectors were Energy
and Mining ($2.4 billion); Transportation ($2.3 billion); and Education ($1.4 billion).
    To unleash the region’s development potential, the Bank’s strategy for South Asia focuses
on growth, social inclusion, and climate and environmental management. A focus on
improved governance and gender equality informs work across the region.

Spurring growth and reducing poverty
Infrastructure gaps in South Asia stymy growth and entrench poverty. To help the region to
bridge the gaps, the Bank is supporting the transformational Central Asia–South Asia Electricity
Project (CASA-1000), which will put in place the commercial and institutional arrangements,
as well as the infrastructure required, to support the sustainable trade of 1,300 megawatts of
electricity. The project will build more than 1,200 kilometers of electricity transmission lines and
associated substations to transmit excess summer hydropower energy from existing power-
generation stations in the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan to Afghanistan and Pakistan.
    To support Pakistan’s economic reforms, the Bank approved a package of assistance
worth $1 billion. The $600 million Power Sector Reform Development Policy Credit, which is
being supplemented with cofinancing by the Asian Development Bank and Japan, supports
Pakistan’s goal of developing an efficient and consumer-oriented electric power system. The
$400 million Fiscally Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Credit supports
Pakistan’s goal of accelerating growth to help create jobs and economic opportunity for all.
    The Bank approved a $600 million loan to improve the quality of the electricity supply in
rural areas in eastern Bangladesh. The Rural Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project will
help to ensure that a larger percentage of the electricity generated reaches rural consumers,
which will increase the quality and reliability of the power supply to 25 million people in rural
Bangladesh. A $107 million IDA credit for road construction in the Indian state of Mizoram will
significantly increase connectivity among India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, and Nepal.
    The new Country Partnership Strategy for Nepal, covering the next four years, supports
increasing economic growth and competitiveness, and will focus on expanding hydroelectric
power generation, enhancing transport connectivity, and improving the business


50       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Countries eligible for World Bank borrowing*
Afghanistan             Bhutan                     Maldives            Pakistan
Bangladesh              India                      Nepal               Sri Lanka




* as of June 30, 2014




environment. It provides support to increasing inclusive growth and opportunities for shared
prosperity; enhancing the productivity of agriculture; and equalizing access to health care, skills
development, and social protection.

Enhancing social inclusion
The Bank focused on improving access to and the quality of public services, building social
cohesion, and tackling the most difficult forms of exclusion and deprivation. It approved a
$50 million package to support implementation of the Punjab Public Management Reform
Program, which will help to improve the transparency and resource management of targeted
departments. The project, which uses the Bank’s Program-for-Results instrument, will scale up
activities using innovative financing to emphasize results, take a multisectoral approach, and
increase citizen access to information.
    A multifaceted program on gender-based violence in the region includes analytical work,
advocacy, and evaluations. The Bank empowers women through rural livelihood programs and
projects that focus on gender equality through specific interventions that seek to improve girls’
education and access to labor markets and finance.

Supporting management of climate and the environment
To reduce disaster risk in the region, the Bank increased its investments from $425 million in
fiscal 2012 to $2.4 billion in fiscal 2014. Sri Lanka became the first South Asian country to access
a Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option. The $102 million
facility was approved along with a $110 million IDA credit Climate Resilience Improvement
Project, which will finance both short- and long-term interventions to reduce climate and
disaster risk.
     A $250 million IDA credit for the Uttarakhand Disaster Recovery Project will support the
Indian state in its postdisaster recovery plans and strengthen its capacity for disaster risk
management. The project was prepared within three months after the unprecedented rainfall
that devastated towns in Uttarakhand in June 2013. About 2,500 permanent, disaster-resilient
houses will be built and about 3,600 kilometers of roads reconstructed.

Sharing knowledge, delivering solutions
The Bank’s analytical work in the region this year included the preparation of policy notes in
anticipation of newly elected governments in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Nepal. The Bank


TABLE 17  SOUTH ASIA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2012–14

                                 Commitments ($ millions)                      Disbursements ($ millions)
                          FY12            FY13                FY14      FY12             FY13               FY14
         IBRD            $1,158           $378                $2,077   $1,037           $1,103          $1,165
          IDA            $5,288           $4,096              $8,458   $2,904           $2,724          $4,271
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2014: $40.1 billion.

                                                                                         THE REGIONS               51
                                     Lighting up rural communities in
                                     Bangladesh
                                      Only about 40 percent of rural households in Bangladesh have access
                                      to grid electricity. As a result, for millions of rural people, most activities
                                      come to a near standstill once the sun goes down. To address the
problem, in 2002, the Bank provided $191 million to support the first Rural Electrification and Renewable
Energy Development Project (RERED). The project established solar home systems as a practical and cost-
effective alternative to electrification in remote rural areas, where grid electricity is not economically viable.
Together with support from IDA and other development partners, the project supported the installation of
about 2 million solar home systems.
    In 2012, the Bank’s Executive Directors approved a $155 million loan to finance RERED II, building on the
success of the earlier project. In addition to continuing Bank support for solar home systems, it supports
renewable energy–based mini-grid options for access to electricity, the replacement of diesel pumps with
solar irrigation pumps, and the dissemination of higher-efficiency cook stoves and biogas plants for cooking.
The project also supports the second phase of the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light deployment
and provides support for technical assistance to the energy sector for reform and capacity building. More
than 50,000 solar home systems are being installed every month, making the program the fastest-growing
solar home system in the world.
    Results have been wide ranging. A recent impact evaluation study confirmed that access to
electrification increased study time for children; improved mobility and the sense of security for women; and
spurred the use of contraceptives and the decline in fertility, thanks to awareness from watching TV.

Photo taken by Arne Hoel/The World Bank.



also published Reducing Poverty by Closing South Asia’s Infrastructure Gap, its first comparative
analysis of the region’s infrastructure needs. The recently published South Asia Economic Focus,
Spring 2014: Time to Refocus reports on recent economic developments and provides a near-
term economic outlook for the region.


FIGURE 11  SOUTH ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $10.5 BILLION

Education                                        14%        23%                                  Energy and Mining



Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry       5%
                                                                          2%                                 Finance
                                                                           4%      Health and Other Social Services
Water, Sanitation, and
                                      13%                                 3%                     Industry and Trade
Flood Protection
                                                                                                    Information and
                                                                           < 1%                    Communications
                                                                                              Public Administration,
Transportation                                  22%               13%                               Law, and Justice



FIGURE 12  SOUTH ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $10.5 BILLION
                                                                                      Social Development, Gender,
Rural Development                                  23%           < 1%                               and Inclusion
                                                                                              Social Protection and
Rule of Law                          < 1%                            9%                         Risk Management

Public Sector Governance                6%                               3%                   Trade and Integration
                                                                         6%                    Urban Development

Human Development                    17%
                                                                           4%              Economic Management

                                                                                          Environment and Natural
Financial and Private Sector Development           21%                10%                  Resources Management


                                                                                          THE REGIONS            52
TABLE 18  SOUTH ASIA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                              1,382              1,499              1,671
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.8                1.5                 1.3
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)                448                700               1,474
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          2.3                7.1                 3.8
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                            619b                598                507
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  64                 66                 68
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    62                 63                 65
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                64                —                   73
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  80                —                   86
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              35                 37                 32
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              83                 83                 81
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              8                  13                 20
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      1,336              1,602              2,253
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             1.0                1.1                 1.4
   (metric tons)


PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
  MDG
                                                          baseline            dataa               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             53.8               31.0               26.9
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              64                 91                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              68                 97                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              92                 47                 31
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                 129                 60                 43

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             550                190                 138
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              71                 91                 86
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              21                 40                 60
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2013; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                                                                                THE REGIONS            53
The Roles of IBRD and IDA
The role of IBRD
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is a global development
cooperative owned by its 188 member countries. It works with its members to achieve
equitable and sustainable economic growth in their national economies and to find solutions
to pressing regional and global problems in economic development and other important
areas, such as environmental sustainability. As the largest development bank in the world and
part of the World Bank Group, IBRD has two main goals: to end extreme poverty and to boost
shared prosperity. It seeks to achieve these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees,
risk management products, and expertise on development-related disciplines, as well as by
coordinating responses to regional and global challenges. (See worldbank.org/ibrd.)

IBRD financial commitments and services
New lending commitments by IBRD were $18.6 billion in fiscal 2014 for 95 operations. This
volume was higher than the precrisis historical average ($13.5 billion a year in fiscal 2005–08)
and the $15.2 billion in fiscal 2013. Europe and Central Asia ($4.7 billion) and Latin America and
the Caribbean ($4.6 billion) received the largest shares of new lending, followed by East Asia
and Pacific ($4.2 billion). Commitments to the Middle East and North Africa ($2.6 billion), South
Asia ($2.1 billion), and Africa ($420 million) followed. Public Administration, Law, and Justice
received the largest sector commitments ($4.8 billion), followed by Transportation ($4.0 billion),
Energy and Mining ($2.4 billion), and Health and Other Social Services ($1.6 billion). Financial
and Private Sector Development received the largest share of commitments (27 percent) for
themes, followed by Public Sector Governance (18 percent) and Urban Development
(11 percent).
    IBRD also offers financial products that allow clients to efficiently fund their development
programs and manage risks related to currency, interest rates, commodity prices, and natural
disasters. In fiscal 2014, the Bank’s Treasury executed U.S. dollar equivalent (USDeq) 4.3 billion
in hedging transactions on behalf of member countries, including USDeq 2.7 billion in interest
rate hedges, USDeq 1.1 billion in currency hedges, USDeq 52 million in hedges against
non-IBRD obligations, and USDeq 547 million for disaster risk management. Disaster risk
management included the renewal of the Pacific Catastrophe Risk Insurance Pilot project for
the second year, with coverage increasing from $45 million to $67 million and the inclusion
of the Cook Islands and a $30 million debut catastrophe bond providing reinsurance to the
Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility. In addition, the Bank’s Treasury executed swap
transactions totaling USDeq 33.1 billion to manage the risks of IBRD’s balance sheet. (See
treasury.worldbank.org/bdm/htm/risk_financing.html.)

IBRD resources
IBRD issues bonds in international capital markets and provides loans, guarantees, and other
risk management products, as well as technical assistance for economic reform projects and
programs to middle-income countries and creditworthy low-income countries. In fiscal 2014,
it raised USDeq 51 billion by issuing bonds in 22 currencies. Its standing in the capital markets
and its financial strength allowed IBRD to borrow these large volumes on very favorable terms
despite volatile market conditions.
     IBRD’s financial strength is based on its robust capital position and shareholder support, as
well as on prudent financial policies and practices that help to maintain its triple-A credit rating.
IBRD’s equity comprises primarily paid-in capital and reserves. Under the terms of the general
and selective capital increase resolutions approved by the Board of Governors on March 16, 2011,
subscribed capital is expected to increase by $87.0 billion, of which $5.1 billion will be paid in
over a five-year period. As of June 30, 2014, the cumulative increase in subscribed capital totaled
$42.6 billion. Related paid-in amounts in connection with the capital increase were $2.5 billion.
     As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough income
to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. Of fiscal 2013 allocable
net income, the Board of Executive Directors approved the addition of $147 million to the
general reserve and recommended to the Board of Governors the transfer of $621 million to
IDA and the allocation of $200 million to surplus.

54       THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
FIGURE 13
IBRD RATIO OF EQUITY TO LOANS AND LONG-TERM INVESTMENT ASSETS
AS OF JUNE 30, 2014

          40


                 29.4            28.6
          30                                      27.0               26.8
                                                                                       25.7
Percent




          20



          10



           0
                 FY10            FY11               FY12              FY13              FY14




    Consistent with IBRD’s development mandate, the principal risk it takes is the country
credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. One summary measure of IBRD’s risk
profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is closely managed in line with its financial and risk
outlook. This ratio stood at 25.7 percent as of June 30, 2014.
    As one of the pioneers of the green bond market and one of the largest issuers of green
bonds, IBRD has raised USDeq over 6.3 billion in 66 green bond transactions denominated in
17 currencies since its first green bond was issued in 2008. World Bank Green Bonds support
lending to eligible development programs that are designed to address the challenges of
climate change, including mitigation projects and programs as well as activities that help
countries to adapt to the effects of climate change and build climate resilience. (See treasury
.worldbank.org/cmd/htm/WorldBankGreenBonds.html.)

The role of IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) is the largest multilateral source of
concessional financing and the main instrument for pursuing the World Bank Group’s twin
goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner in
the world’s poorest countries. IDA’s funding supports countries’ efforts to increase economic
growth, reduce poverty, and improve the living conditions of the poor. In fiscal year 2014,
82 countries were eligible to receive IDA assistance. (See worldbank.org/ida.)

IDA financial commitments
IDA commitments amounted to $22.2 billion in fiscal 2014, including $18.5 billion in credits,
$2.8 billion in grants, and $937 million in guarantees. The largest share of resources was
committed to Africa, which received $10.2 billion. South Asia ($8.5 billion) and East Asia and
Pacific ($2.1 billion) also received large shares of committed funding, followed by Europe and
Central Asia ($798 million), Latin America and the Caribbean ($460 million), and the Middle East
and North Africa ($199 million). India ($3.1 billion) and Pakistan ($2.1 billion) were the largest
country recipients.
     Commitments for infrastructure—including the sectors Energy and Mining; Transportation;
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection; and Information and Communications—reached $10.4
billion. Significant support was also committed to the sectors of Public Administration, Law,
and Justice ($4.0 billion); Education ($2.3 billion); and Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry ($2.3
billion). The themes receiving the highest share of commitments were Rural Development
($4.6 billion), Human Development ($3.4 billion), and Financial and Private Sector Development
($2.9 billion).

IDA resources
IDA is financed largely by contributions from partner governments. Additional financing comes
from transfers from IBRD’s net income, grants from the International Finance Corporation (IFC),
and borrowers’ repayments of earlier IDA credits.

                                                              THE ROLES OF IBRD AND IDA           55
     Every three years, partner governments and representatives of borrower countries meet
to agree on IDA’s strategic direction, priorities, and financing for the subsequent three-year
implementation period. During the IDA16 Replenishment, which covered fiscal years 2012–14,
total resources, reflecting updates subsequent to the replenishment discussions, amounted
to 33.8 billion in Special Drawing Rights (SDR) (equivalent to $50.8 billion). Of this amount,
SDR 31.7 billion (equivalent to $47.6 billion) was made available, including unqualified
partner contributions of SDR 16.7 billion (equivalent to $25.1 billion) from 46 countries and
contributions to the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) of SDR 2.2 billion (equivalent to $3.3
billion). IDA16 funding also included credit reflows of SDR 8.9 billion (equivalent to $13.4 billion);
fully paid contributions from IBRD and IFC, including associated investment income, of SDR 1.8
billion (equivalent to $2.7 billion); and balances carried forward from prior replenishments of
SDR 2.0 billion (equivalent to $3.0 billion). (The U.S. dollar equivalents are based on the reference
exchange rate for IDA16. The amounts are provided for illustrative purposes only.)
     The overarching theme and main focus of IDA16 was the delivery of development
results. IDA16 special themes included crisis response, gender, climate change, and fragile
and conflict-affected situations. IDA16 also included funding for a dedicated Crisis Response
Window to help low-income countries to deal with the impact of natural disasters and severe
economic shocks.
     The process for the IDA17 Replenishment (IDA17), which will cover fiscal years 2015–17,
was completed in December 2013. The record envelope of SDR 34.6 billion (equivalent to
$52.1 billion) represented an increase over IDA16 of 5.3 percent in SDR terms (5.7 percent in
U.S. dollar terms), as agreed upon at the final IDA16 pledging session. Forty-seven partners,
three of which are new contributing partners, pledged SDR 17.3 billion (equivalent to $26.1
billion) in grants, of which SDR 0.6 billion (equivalent to $0.9 billion) is the grant element from
concessional partner loan contributions. Partners are providing SDR 2.9 billion (equivalent
to $4.4 billion) in concessional partner loans, an important innovation developed during the
course of the replenishment discussions to leverage IDA’s resources in a financially sustainable
way. Contributing partners will also provide SDR 3.0 billion (equivalent to $4.5 billion) in
compensation for debt relief under the MDRI. Credit reflows of IDA are estimated to provide
some SDR 9.5 billion (equivalent to $14.3 billion). This figure includes SDR 0.8 billion (equivalent
to $1.2 billion) from the hardening of lending terms of IDA-only client countries with low and
moderate levels of debt distress and SDR 1.9 billion (equivalent to $2.8 billion) from contractual
accelerated repayments of outstanding credits from IDA graduates and voluntary prepayments.
Contributions from World Bank Group resources, through transfers from IBRD and IFC, including
associated investment income, are planned at SDR 2.1 billion (equivalent to $3.2 billion);
such transfers are approved annually by the IBRD’s Board of Governors and the IFC’s Board of
Directors, based on evaluations of the institutions’ annual results and financial capacities. Carry
forward of unused IDA16 arrears clearance funding will amount to SDR 0.4 billion (equivalent
to $0.6 billion). (The U.S. dollar equivalents are based on the reference exchange rate for IDA17.
The amounts are provided for illustrative purposes only.)


FIGURE 14
IDA REPLENISHMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
                                                                             26.4                                            26.1
                               25.1



                                                   14.6                                            14.9


     6.3              6.3
                                                                     5.3                                             4.5
             3.9                                             3.0                                            3.2                       3.5
                                      n.a.                                            n.a.

                IDA15 FY09–11                                  IDA16 FY12–14                                   IDA17 FY15–17
     IDA internal resourcesa                 Donor compensation for MDRI debt forgiveness            Concessional partner loans
     IBRD and IFC transfers                  Donor contributionsb                                    (net of grant element)

Note: n.a. = not applicable. Data reflects final agreed replenishment reports and exchange rates used during the replenishment discussions.
a. IDA internal resources include principal repayments, charges, and investment income.
b.  Net of structural financing gap.




56           THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
FIGURE 15
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY REGION | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL LENDING OF $40.8 BILLION

Europe and Central Asia                   14%              12%        Latin America and the Caribbean



East Asia and Paci c            15%
                                                                 7%        Middle East and North Africa




Africa                                    26%         26%                                   South Asia




FIGURE 16
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL LENDING OF $40.8 BILLION

Education                                 8%         16%                           Energy and Mining


                                                            5%                                Finance
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry 7%
                                                                                     Health and Other
                                                                  8%                   Social Services
Water, Sanitation,
and Food Protection            11%                                4%               Industry and Trade
                                                                                     Information and
                                                                   1%               Communications



Transportation                             17%       22%     Public Administration, Law, and Justice




FIGURE 17
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2014
SHARE OF TOTAL LENDING OF $40.8 BILLION

                                                                         Social Development, Gender,
Rural Development                           16%      3%                                and Inclusion
                                                                             Social Protection and Risk
Rule of Law                          1%                     9%                           Management
                                                                 4%             Trade and Integration
Public Sector Governance       13%
                                                                  11%            Urban Development


Human Development              13%                               2%           Economic Management


Financial and Private Sector                                                 Environment and Natural
Development                                    20%         10%                Resources Management




                                                                 THE ROLES OF IBRD AND IDA                57
TABLE 19
OPERATIONAL SUMMARY | FISCAL 2010–14
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS


IBRD	                                                        FY14	FY13	FY12	FY11	FY10

Commitments	                                               18,604	15,249	20,582	26,737	44,197

  Of which development policy lending	                      7,997	      7,080	    10,333	      9,524	     20,588

Gross disbursements	                                       18,761	15,830	19,777	21,879	28,855

  Of which development policy lending	                      9,786	      5,972	      9,052	    10,582	     17,425

Principal repayments (including prepayments)	               9,805	      9,470	    11,970	     13,885	     11,624

Net disbursements	                                          8,956	6,361	7,806	7,994	17,231

Loans outstanding	                                        154,021	143,776	136,325	132,459	120,103

Undisbursed loans	                                         58,449	61,306	62,916	64,435	63,574

Operating incomea	                                            728	876	783	1,023	800

Usable capital and reserves	                               40,467	39,711	37,636	38,689	36,106

Equity-to-loans ratio	                                       26%	27%	27%	29%	29%

   Reported in IBRD’s financial statements as “Income before fair value adjustment on nontrading portfolios,
a. 
   net and Board of Governors—approved transfers.”




IDA	                                                         FY14	FY13	FY12	FY11	FY10

Commitments	                                               22,239	16,298	14,753	16,269	14,550

  Of which development policy lending	                      2,489	      1,954	      1,827	     2,032	      2,370

Gross disbursements	                                       13,432	11,228	11,061	10,282	11,460

  Of which development policy lending	                      2,644	      1,662	      2,092	     1,944	      3,228

Principal repayments (including prepayments)	               3,636	3,845	4,023	2,501	2,349

Net disbursements	                                          9,878	7,371	7,037	7,781	9,111

Credits outstanding	                                      136,011	125,135	123,576	125,287	113,474

Undisbursed credits	                                       46,844	39,765	37,144	38,059	30,696

Undisbursed grants	                                         6,983	6,436	6,161	6,830	5,837

Development grant expenses	                                 2,645	2,380	2,062	2,793	2,583




58        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
TABLE 20
WORLD BANK LENDING BY THEME AND SECTOR | FISCAL 2010–14
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS


THEME	                                                      FY14	FY13	FY12	FY11	FY10

Economic Management	                                         955	 484	1,293	 655	3,950

Environment and Natural Resources Management	               3,883	   2,470	   3,997	   6,102	    4,337

Financial and Private Sector Development	                   8,028	   4,380	   4,743	   7,981	   17,726

Human Development	                                          5,192	4,348	4,961	4,228	8,421

Public Sector Governance	                                   5,252	3,790	4,035	4,518	5,750

Rule of Law	                                                 291	590	126	169	207

Rural Development	                                          6,437	4,651	5,443	5,636	5,004

Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion	                  1,064	   1,310	   1,247	    908	      952

Social Protection and Risk Management	                      3,585	   3,956	   3,502	   5,691	    5,006

Trade and Integration	                                      1,643	2,707	1,872	2,604	1,818

Urban Development	                                          4,511	2,861	4,118	4,514	5,575

THEME TOTAL	                                               40,843	31,547	35,335	43,006	58,747



SECTOR	                                                     FY14	FY13	FY12	FY11	FY10

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	                         3,059	2,112	3,134	2,128	2,618

Education	                                                  3,457	2,731	2,959	1,733	4,945

Energy and Mining	                                          6,689	3,280	5,000	5,807	9,925

Finance	                                                    1,984	2,055	1,764	 897	9,137

Health and Other Social Services	                           3,353	   4,363	   4,190	   6,707	    6,792

Industry and Trade	                                         1,807	1,432	1,352	2,167	1,251

Information and Communications	                              381	228	158	640	146

Public Administration, Law, and Justice	                    8,837	   7,991	   8,728	   9,673	   10,828

Transportation	                                             6,946	5,135	4,445	8,638	9,002

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection	                    4,332	   2,220	   3,605	   4,617	    4,103

SECTOR TOTAL	                                              40,843	 31,547	35,335	43,006	58,747


  Of which IBRD	                                           18,604	15,249	20,582	26,737	44,197

 Of which IDA	                                             22,239	16,298	14,753	16,269	14,550

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.




                                                                                                   59
Committed to Results
The World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by
providing financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private
sectors. Delivering integrated solutions to help countries address their development
challenges requires a focus on results. In recent years, the World Bank has made
important contributions across many areas to support development results by its
partner countries, as shown in these selected examples from around the world. The
accompanying map also shows the current borrowing eligibility of member countries.
For more information, visit worldbank.org/results.


 1   	Argentina: Women attending their first         8    	 Democratic Republic of Congo: 3,951
      antenatal care visit before the 20th week of          survivors of sexual violence in the war-torn
      pregnancy increased from 23 percent to 67             province of South Kivu have received
      percent between 2006 and 2012.                        medical and therapeutic care since 2010.
 2   	Armenia: 95 percent of citizens had            9    	 Dominican Republic: 700,000 adults
      access to qualified family practices                  enrolled in a second-chance literacy
      for basic health care services in 2013,               program in 2013.
      compared to 85 percent in 2010.                10   	 Arab Republic of Egypt: Polluting brick
 3   	Benin: 38,000 people—77 percent                       kilns were converted to natural gas, which
      women—in 512 previously unserved                      reduced the exposure of approximately
      communities have gained access to                     717,500 people to health-damaging
      microfinance services since 2005.                     particulate matter.
 4   	Brazil: 13,687 additional students were        11   	Georgia: Poverty rates decreased from 21
      enrolled in professional education schools           percent in 2010 to less than 15 percent in
      between 2010 and 2013.                               2012.
 5   	Burundi: More than 1,500 kilometers of         12   	Ghana: A public-private partnership
      roads were maintained in 2013, compared              project that develops e-government
      to none in 2003.                                     infrastructure produced over 8,093 new
 6                                                         jobs in 2013, of which 54 percent were
     	Cambodia: The share of births delivered
                                                           held by women.
      by trained health personnel increased from
      65 percent in 2009 to 85 percent in 2013.      13   	Guinea-Bissau: With the help of local
 7                                                         communities, 480,000 hectares of the
     	China: Over 20 million people have
                                                           coastal zone were conserved with the
      improved resident health and living
                                                           intent to form the backbone of a future
      standards because of improved water
                                                           tourism industry.
      and pollution control.




60        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
                                                                                                                                                                      Russian Federation


                                                                                                             Russian Fed.
                                                                                                                    Poland Belarus              19                                                                    20
                                                                                                                          Ukraine
                                                                                                                                          11      Kazakhstan                  Mongolia
                                                                                                                            Moldova                             16
                                                                                                                          Romania
                                                                                                                                  Georgia      Uzbekistan Kyrgyz Rep.
                                                                                                                         Bulgaria
                                                                                                                                Armenia   Azerbaijan                                    7
                                                                                                                        29 Turkey           Turkmenistan Tajikistan
                                                                                                                                                                    27                                                                         Rep. of
                                                                                             21                                   Syrian                                              China                                                    Korea
                                                                                                             Tunisia                       Islamic
                                                                                                                        Lebanon A.R.                Afghanistan
                                                                                                                                             Rep.
                                                                                     Morocco                 West Bank and Gaza       Iraq of Iran                         Bhutan
                                                                                                                                  Jordan                 Pakistan
                                                                                                  Algeria                  Arab                                      Nepal
                                                                                                                 Libya    Rep. of                          24
                                                                                                                                                   10                             14
                                                                                                                                     Egypt                                               Bangladesh
Mexico                   Haiti                                                                                                                                                                 Myanmar                                   30
                  Jamaica                                              Cabo                                                                                                      India                                          Lao
                                                                                Mauritania                                                                        2
               Belize     22                                           Verde                                                                                                                                                    P .D.R.
Guatemala       Honduras                                       13                              Mali Niger             Sudan Eritrea Rep. of                                                                                   Thailand Vietnam      25
                                                                             Senegal              23        Chad                      Yemen
 El Salvador     Nicaragua                                       The Gambia               Burkina                                                                                                                         6      Cambodia                              Federated States       Marshall Islands
                                                               Guinea-Bissau               Faso                                     Djibouti                                                                                                    Philippines
                                                                                Guinea            Nigeria                                                                                                                                                               of Micronesia
     Costa Rica                 R.B. de Guyana                                         Côte                  Central South                                                               Sri
            Panama                                                   Sierra Leone                                            Ethiopia                                                    Lanka
                               Venezuela    Suriname                                  d’Ivoire               African Sudan             Somalia                                                                                      Malaysia
                         Colombia                                             Liberia              Cameroon Rep.              15                                                                                                                                 Palau
                                                                               12
                                                                                        Ghana                       26 Uganda              28                                    Maldives
                                                                                          Togo            Congo                                                                                                                                                                                          Kiribati
               Ecuador                                                                   Benin      Gabon                   Kenya
                                                                                                                 Rwanda
                                                                              Equatorial Guinea              Dem. Rep. Burundi      Seychelles                                                                                                                                            Solomon                       Kiribati
                                                   4                     São Tomé and Príncipe                of Congo                                                                                                                          Indonesia                  Papua           Islands
                                                                                                     8                   Tanzania Comoros                                                                                                                                   New
                         Peru                                                                      3                            5                                                                                                                                          Guinea                    Tuvalu
                                                 Brazil                                                                                                                                                                                                  Timor-Leste
                                                                                                                  Angola
                                                                                                                               Zambia Malawi              17                                                                                                                                                    Samoa
                                                                                                                                                                            18
                                   Bolivia                                                                                                         Madagascar                                                                                                                       Vanuatu              Fiji
                                                                                                                Namibia        Zimbabwe
                                                                                                                                                                Mauritius
                                                                       9                                                Botswana         Mozambique
                                         Paraguay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tonga
                                                                    Dominican                                                                 Swaziland                               Poland
                                                                    Republic




                                                                                                                                                                                               Bulgaria Romania Ukraine
                                                                                                  Antigua                   South            Lesotho
                                             1                                                    and                       Africa
                                 Chile               Uruguay                     St. Kitts        Barbuda
                                                                                and Nevis
                                         Argentina
                                                                                      Dominica
                                                                                                                                                                            Croatia
                                                                                      St. Lucia                                                                         Bosnia and Serbia
                                                                                                                                                                       Herzegovina
                                                                           St. Vincent and
                                                                           the Grenadines                                                                                          Kosovo
                                                                                                  Grenada                                                               Montenegro
                                                                                                                                                                              Albania
                                                                                                  Trinidad                                                                            FYR
                                                                      R. B. de Venezuela          & Tobago                                                                       Macedonia                                                                                                                                         IBRD 40125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JULY 2014




14   India: More than 6,000 hectares of                                    19     Moldova: Access to preschool programs                                                           24     Pakistan: Nearly 2 million citizens in                                                     28    Tanzania: Over 12 million people gained
     mangroves have been planted as part of                                       increased from 77 percent in 2010 to 82                                                                Punjab have beneﬁted from improved                                                               access to improved health services
     integrated coastal management.                                               percent by 2013.                                                                                       local government services, prioritized                                                           between 2005 and 2013.
15                                                                         20                                                                                                            through a demand-driven planning                                                           29
     Kenya: 60,000 smallholder farmers are                                        Mongolia: About 500,000 people have                                                                                                                                                                     Turkey: Satisfaction with land registry
                                                                                                                                                                                         process, between 2006 and 2013.
     now selling carbon credits earned by                                         gained access to solar power since 2006.                                                                                                                                                                and cadastre services improved from 40
     improved agricultural land management                                                                                                                                        25     Philippines: 1.6 million households in                                                           percent in 2008 to 85 percent in 2013.
                                                                           21     Morocco: Completion rates in lower
     practices, which trap carbon dioxide in soil.                                                                                                                                       the poorest parts of the country beneﬁted                                                  30
                                                                                  secondary education increased to 65                                                                                                                                                                     Vietnam: More than 1.2 million people
16                                                                                                                                                                                       from local projects for water systems,
     Kyrgyz Republic: Over 50,000 people                                          percent in 2012 from 52 percent in 2009.                                                                                                                                                                in Ho Chi Minh City now beneﬁt from
                                                                                                                                                                                         school buildings, day care centers, health
     were trained since 2000 to manage                                     22                                                                                                                                                                                                             a modern sanitation and ﬂood control
                                                                                  Nicaragua: 15 indigenous territories—                                                                  stations, roads, and bridges since 2002.
     irrigation areas covering 710,000 hectares.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          system.
                                                                                  over 20 percent of the national territory—                                                      26
17                                                                                                                                                                                       Rwanda: 37,771 ex-combatants had
     Madagascar: 291 schools damaged by                                           were demarcated and titled to the beneﬁt
                                                                                                                                                                                         demobilized and were provided with
     natural disasters were rehabilitated or                                      of more than 100,000 indigenous people
                                                                                                                                                                                         reintegration beneﬁts as of November
     reconstructed between 2009 and 2013.                                         by 2013.
                                                                                                                                                                                         2013.
18   Malawi: 391,338 people with advanced                                  23     Nigeria: 200,000 daily commuters in                                                             27     Tajikistan: 10,321 jobs were created in
     HIV infection were on ARV therapy in 2012,                                   Lagos are now using a bus rapid transport
                                                                                                                                                                                         rural areas between 2011 and 2013.
     up from 3,000 in 2002.                                                       system, cutting their time in transit by 40
                                                                                  percent.
World Bank Annual Report 2014 Team
Publisher                                                            Print Production Coordinator
Carlos Rossel                                                        Denise Bergeron

Editorial Coordinator                                                Web Production Coordinators
Daniel Nikolits                                                      Stacey Leonard Frank
                                                                     Paschal Ssemaganda
Design and Production Coordinator                                    Tom Breineder
Susan Graham
                                                                     Design, Typesetting, and Printing
Advisory Editors                                                     Cover and interior pages designed by Hank Isaac of River
Nancy Lammers                                                        Rock Creative and Debra Naylor of Naylor Design; World
John Felton                                                          Bank Group 2014 Summary Results designed by Addison;
Barbara Karni                                                        typeset by BMWW; printed by Professional Graphics
Janet Sasser                                                         Printing Co.




                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2014
                                        CD ROM CONTENTS
                                                     The World Bank Annual Report 2014
                                       L




                                                     (booklet), in 7 languages
                                                     The World Bank Group and World Bank
                                       L




                                                     Corporate Scorecards (April 2014)
                                                     IBRD and IDA Audited Financial Statements
                                       L




                                                     G4 Sustainability Reporting Index
                                       L L L L L L




                                                     Income by Region
                                                     Lending Data
                                                     New Operations Approved
                                                     Organizational Information
                                                     World Bank Lending 2014
                                                     (PowerPoint)




© 2014 International Bank for Reconstruction and                          Attribution—Please cite the work as follows: World
Development / The World Bank                                         Bank. 2014. World Bank Annual Report 2014. Washington,
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433                               DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0245-4. License:
Telephone: 202-473-1000; Internet: www.worldbank.org                 Creative Commons Attribution—NonCommercial—
Email: feedback@worldbank.org                                        NoDerivatives 3.0 IGO (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO).
                                                                          Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
Some rights reserved                                                 commercial purposes.
1 2 3 4 17 16 15 14                                                       No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform,
This work is a product of the sta of The World Bank.                 or build upon this work.
The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other                          Third-party content—The World Bank does
information shown on any map in this work do not imply               not necessarily own each component of the content
any judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning                contained within the work. The World Bank therefore
the legal status of any territory or the endorsement or              does not warrant that the use of any third-party-owned
acceptance of such boundaries.                                       individual component or part contained in the work will
     Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered                not infringe on the rights of those third parties. The risk of
to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges and              claims resulting from such infringement rests solely with
immunities of The World Bank, all of which are speci cally           you. If you wish to re-use a component of the work, it is
reserved.                                                            your responsibility to determine whether permission is
                                                                     needed for that re-use and to obtain permission from the
Rights and Permissions                                               copyright owner. Examples of components can include,
                          This work is available under the           but are not limited to, tables, gures, or images.
                          Creative Commons Attribution—                   All queries on rights and licenses should be
                          NonCommercial—NoDerivatives                addressed to the Publishing and Knowledge Division, The
                          3.0 IGO license (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0           World Bank, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433,
IGO) http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/               USA; fax: 202-522-2625; email: pubrights@worldbank.org
igo. Under the Creative Commons—NonCommercial—
NoDerivatives license, you are free to copy, distribute,             ISBN (paper): 978-1-4648-0245-4
and transmit this work, for noncommercial purposes only,             ISBN (electronic): 978-1-4648-0253-9
under the following conditions:                                      doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0245-4
In recent years, World Bank
investments have helped to
   Construct or rehabilitate generation capacity of 1,430
   megawatts of conventional and 904 megawatts of
   renewable energy

   Provide 6.9 million people with direct access to electricity

   Cover 37.4 million people by social safety net programs

   Reduce 903 million tons of CO2 emissions annually through
   special climate instruments

   Construct or rehabilitate 95,000 kilometers of roads

   Support 1.8 million farmers in adopting improved agricultural
   technology

   Provide 35.3 million people with access to an improved water
   source

   Provide 6.8 million people with access to improved sanitation
   facilities

   Reach 15.3 million people and micro, small, and medium
   enterprises with financial services

   Support 29 countries in institutionalizing disaster risk reduction
   as a national priority


The list above highlights selected results achieved by World Bank clients during
 scal 2011 to scal 2013 and supported by World Bank operations. The World Bank is
comprised of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and
the International Development Association (IDA), and it is committed to the goals of
ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity and to achieving both in a
sustainable manner. The World Bank provides nancing, knowledge, and convening
services that help client countries address their most important development
challenges.


   worldbank.org/annualreport2014




                                                                              SKU 210245
