-
INTERNATIONAL
BANK
Ft R RECONSTRUCTION
IND DEVELOPMENT
A~~FL AE



I                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                        I



SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
19 5 0 -1 9 5 1
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
dgINIEN1ONAI)
*BAN,
WASHINGTON, D. C.



I                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
September 10, 1951
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have been authorized by the
Executive Directors to submit to the Board of Governors this Sixth Annual
Report of the Bank. The report includes financial statements as of June 30,
1951, based on an audit of the accounts of the Bank made pursuant to
Section 19 of the By-Laws. It also incorporates, pursuant to Section 19 of
the By-Laws, an administrative budget for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1952.
The report as a whole covers the Bank's activities for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 1950 and ending June 30, 1951.
Sincerely yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President.
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
THE YEAR IN REVIEW  .............7..........................................                                   7
THE BANK IN RELATION TO RECENT WORLD DEVELOPMENTS.                                                             9
Economic Developments during the Past Year-Their Effect Upon
the Bank.                                                                                                9
Increased Earnings of Underdeveloped Countries .........................                            9
Loans of Non-Dollar Funds  .             ...............................................   10
The Importance of Economic Development ..................................   11
The Need for Programming .            ...............................................              12
Bank Lending: 1947 - 1951 ...................3.................. t3
Future Possibilities .................  15
THE BANK'S OPERATIONS ................................. 17
Africa .................. 17
Asia ...............,.,......................... 20
Australia  ............................................... .  25
Europe ........... 26
Latin America .................. ........ 32
FINANCIAL  ACTIVITIES  AND  RESOURCES  .........                        ........          ............    41
Earnings, Reserves, Repayments and Disbursements ...............................   41
Funds Available for Lending ..................... 42
Sales of Securities .     ..........................................................   42
New Issues of the Bank's Bonds ..........................................   43
Sales of Bonds from the Bank's Portfolio .................             ......       ...........   43
Broadening Market for the Bank's Bonds ....................................   44
Financial Statements and Reports ..............................................   44
MANAGEMENT AND  ORGANIZATION  ........................................  45
Changes in Personnel .............                 .........................................   45
Staff Retirement Plan  ..............              .........................................   45
Training Program  .....................                .....................................   45
Administrative Budget ..............                ........................................   46



Page
MISCELLANEOUS .......................................  47
Relations with Other International Organizations ..................................   47
Membership  and  Subscription ................................................  47
Additional Reports to Board of Governors .......................                              ......        ..  48
Appendices ......................................................  48
A. Balance Sheet-June 30, 1951 .......................                                                     50
B. Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the Fiscal Y ears
Ended June 30. 1950 and June 30, 1951 ................ 52
C.  Statement of Loans-June 30, 1951 .....................................   54
D.   Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1951 ...                       .....      .....   58
E.  Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-June 30, 1951...    60
F.  Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1951 ............................   62
G. Opinion of Independent Auditor .64
H.   Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1952 .                                      65
I.   Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of June 30, 1951 ...                           66
J.  Governors and Alternates as of June 30, 1951 ............................   67
K.  Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Pouwer as of
June 30, 1951 .            ....................................................  68
L.  Principal Officers of the Bank as of June 30, 1951 ..               .....................   70



I                                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I



THE YEAR IN REVIEW
In the past fiscal year the Bank made 21 loans    try's development program; the study group or
totaling the equivalent of $297.1 million for de-    "seminar," in which specialists from member coun-
velopmental projects in 11 countries. This is the    tries exchange views with the staff of the Bank on
largest number of loans as well as the largest   specific development problems; and the sending
amount in value to be made by the Bank in any    of Bank staff to member countries for extended
one fiscal year since the Bank started its lending    periods to aid in the analysis of the councries'
activities in May 1947. The 48 loans made by the    development programs and in the effective carry-
Bank up to the end of the fiscal year on June 30,   ing out of projects. In addition, the Bank par-
1951 totaled $1,114 million; of this $691.7 million    ticipated in the first of a series of training institutes
had been disbursed, and $17 million had been can-    designed to acquaint government officials of under-
celled at the request of borrowers.             developed countries with the techniques of pro-
During the fiscal year loans for electric power    gramming and project control. In making use of
development were made to Brazil, Colombia, Ice-   these new methods the Bank has on occasion com-
land, South Africa and Uruguay; for the expansion    bined forces with other international and national
of transportation facilities - including roads, port   agencies.
development and railway rehabilitation and im-    The Bank has continued its use of the com-
provement -  to Australia, Colombia, Ethiopia,    prehensive survey mission as a means of drawing
Nicaragua, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey;    up broad recommendations for a country's eco-
for flood control and irrigation to Iraq and Thai-   nomic development. During the fiscal year the
land; and for agricultural machinery and grain    report of the comprehensive survey mission to
storage to Nicaragua and Turkey. A loan to Ethio-    Colombia was published. The report of a similar
pia and part of one to Uruguay were for the im-    mission to Turkey was presented to the Turkish
provement of telecommunications. The Australian    Government in June 1951. The reports of the
loan was for the expansion of many kinds of pro-    Guatemalan and Cuban missions were scheduled
ductive facilities. For the purpose of providing    for transmittal to the Governments of those coun-
medium and long-term assistance to small enter-   tries in July and August respectively. At the end
prises, the Bank made loans to newly organized    of the fiscal year the report of the mission to Iraq
financial institutions in Ethiopia and Turkey, and    was being drafted, and survey missions to Ceylon
to a consortium of private banks in Mexico.     and Surinam were being organized.
In the past year the Bank has increasingly in-  Throughout the year the Bank watched for signs
terested itself in helping member countries to    of growing shortages in the supplies of capital
assess their total economic resources and to set up    goods needed by its member countries in carrying
priorities to be followed in their development    out their development projects. No shortages de-
programs. The Fifth Annual Report contained a    veloped acute enough to impede the Bank's opera-
discussion of some of the methods being used by    tions seriously, but it was expected that with the
the Bank in this field. During the past year the    intensification of mobilization for defense, in the
Bank has experimented with new techniques, and    United States especially, the problem would be-
has expanded its activities in this type of technical    come more grave. A special unit was set up in the
assistance.                                     Bank to follow developments in this field and to
Some of these new methods are the specialized    assist member countries in locating sources of
mission, sent out to study specific aspects of a coun-    supply in the United States, Canada, and the coun-
[ 7 ]



tries of Western Europe.                          effect, one credit transaction in which the Bank
In May 1951 the Bank sold £5 million of its own    and private investors cooperated.
bonds in the London investment market, and thus     With the countries of Western Europe now hav-
for the first time added to its lendable resources    ing a greater capacity to produce the goods needed
of pounds sterling by tapping private investment    for development, the Bank has found an increasing
funds. At the close of the fiscal year, the Bank had    need for Western European currencies in the course
also completed arrangements for its first public    of its operations. Some of the Bank's member coun-
offering of Swiss-franc bonds in Switzerland. These    tries  atter able o me lan serie pamnt
tranactins ae anindiatio  of he boadeing tries are better able to meet loan service payments
transactions  are aion  of the broadening    in non-dollar currencies. Accordingly, a desirable
expansion of the Bank's activities may be pre-
An increasing willingness of investors to asso-    vented, unless greater resources of Western Euro-
cdate themselves directly with Bank financing was
shown by two other developments. In the past    pencrece,otie   ihrfo   h   8
shown by te eeomet.Ih a capital subscriptions of its Western European mem-
year, for the first time, the Bank sold bonds out of          ptnk  ofits Weste Erpean mem-
its loan portfolio to private investors without its    bers or by Bank borrowings in the capital markets
guarantee. A total of $4.5 million of such bonds,    of Western Europe, are made available to the
of short maturities, were sold.                   Bank.
In January 1951 when the Bank made a loan to     In the past fiscal year the equivalent of 9.9 mil-
the Union of South Africa for the development of    lion United States dollars was released from 18%
transportation facilities, eight American commer-    funds for use by the Bank in making loans. Dur-
cial banks simultaneously extended to the Union    ing the five years of the Bank's operations non-
Government a credit of $10 million for purposes    dollar 18% funds have been released in an amount
related to the Bank's loan. The two loans were, in    equivalent to $26.2 million.
L8]



THE BANK IN RELATION TO
RECENT WORLD DEVELOPMENTS
In every year since its establishment in 1946 the    created more favorable conditions for the Bank's
Bank has faced new and changing conditions in   lending operations. On the other hand, serious new
the world. At no time in the Bank's experience,    problems have arisen. It is the purpose of this
however, have the economic conditions of the    section of the Sixth Annual Report to examine the
world changed so abruptly as in the year just   relationship between recent world events and the
ended. New factors have provided underdeveloped    activities of the Bank.
countries with opportunities for growth, and have
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE PAST YEAR - THEIR EFFECT
UPON THE BANK
The beginning of the fiscal year 1950-51 vir-   ital savings, to stabilize national accounts and cur-
tually coincided with the outbreak of war in Korea.   rencies, and to promote development.
Some of the major economic trends affecting the   In addition to the trends mentioned, tightening
Bank's investment policy and operations in the    in the supplies of capital goods has taken place
past year had started in the early months of 1950    and is expected to become more serious in the
and cannot be traced to defense preparations or    year ahead. Restrictions on the supply of capital
military action. It is clear, however, that some of    goods will create difficult problems for the Bank's
these trends have become more pronounced since    member countries. New effort and new approaches
June 1950. The efforts of the industrial countries    will be needed to make possible for member coun-
to mobilize their military defenses have stimulated    tries the maximum economic development with-
heavy buying of raw materials; and there was a    in the limitations of funds, local resources, and
further reduction in the dollar shortage late in    equipment available from abroad. This means ex-
1950 and early in 1951.                         ploring the possibility of drawing upon the funds
The demand for raw materials has increased the    and resources of those industrialized countries
foreign-exchange earnings of many of the Bank's    whose economies and currencies have been
member countries. These increased earnings, com-    strengthened in the postwar years. It means in-
bined with the disappearance of dollar deficits in    creased emphasis on the shaping of broad develop-
many countries, have generally strengthened the    ment programs and the careful setting up of pri-
underdeveloped countries in their ability to service    orities within those programs. It means making
foreign debts. At the same time, the increase in the    the most of new opportunities for productive loans
prices of raw materials has worsened the terms of   to those countries whose increased foreign earnings
trade of many industrialized countries and thereby    have placed them in a position to proceed more
increased the strain on their resources.        rapidly with their own development.
In many countries the booming raw materials
market has set in motion strong inflationary forces    Increased Earnings of Underdeveloped
which must be controlled by vigorous measures if    Countries
the gains in income are to be used to increase cap-  The sharp increase in the demand for industrial
[ 9 1



raw  materials and foodstuffs by the industrial    long-run prospects of the underdeveloped coun-
countries of North America and Western Eu-    tries on the basis of the extraordinary price and
rope, combined with increases in the prices of    demand conditions which prevailed in the last
most of these commodities, caused substantial im-    twelve months. Prices of primary commodities in
provements during the past year and a half in the    the world market have declined to some extent in
balance of payments position of most countries    recent months, and prices of the consumer and
producing primary materials. The primary pro-    capital goods that must be imported by the primary
ducing countries of the sterling area, for instance,    producing countries have increased. The prospect
built up a sizable surplus of dollar earnings over    is for a continued high level of production of pri-
dollar expenditures. On the other hand, claims on    mary commodities and their sale at satisfactory
the United Kingdom  increased, in the form of    prices for some time to come, but it will require
higher sterling balances among virtually all mem-    careful husbanding of the additional earnings at
bers of the sterling area.                       the disposal of the economically underdeveloped
Some countries, finding themselves with more    countries for these countries to reap the full bene-
gold and dollars, relaxed their restrictions against   fits of their favorable position.
the import of dollar goods. In general, the im-
provement in foreign-exchange earnings has helped  Loans of Non-Dollar Funds
these countries to build up reserves, has improved  In earlier years the Bank's lending operations
their ability to service foreign loans, and has im-    were almost exclusively confined to loans in United
proved their financial position by providing a mar-    States dollars, since the United States was virtually
gin of safety against temporary balance of pay-    the only country whose economy could afford a
ments difficulties. Of greater importance, however,    net outflow of capital and resources. The appraisal
is the fact that increased exchange earnings should    of the ability of the Bank's borrowers to carry in-
enable many of the primary producing countries    creased debt had to be based on the prospects of
to devote a larger share of their total income to    these countries to service dollar loans - either by
economic development.                             earning dollars in direct trade with the dollar area
The increase in foreign-exchange earnings, which    or by converting the necessary amounts from other
was especially pronounced in the summer and fall   currencies into dollars. During the past year the
of 1950, was not an unmixed blessing. In many    direct and indirect dollar earnings of many coun-
countries it led to a renewal of inflationary pres-   tries have improved; but there are still a number
sures. A number of countries have taken effective    of countries that cannot service loans in dollars to
steps to curb these pressures by the introduction of    the extent they can in other currencies. At the same
higher export taxes and similar measures designed    time, the expansion of production and income in
to siphon off a certain proportion of the gains re-    many of the Western European countries has cre-
sulting from the raw materials boom. It remains to    ated a reasonable expectation that these countries
be seen whether the increased foreign-exchange    would find it possible to devote resources on an
earnings will be used to the best advantage by these    increasing scale to supply some part of the devel-
countries. If the earnings are used to increase    opment needs of underdeveloped countries on
reserves and pay off indebtedness, to finance sound    long-term credit. The impact of the rearmament
development projects, and to encourage the expan-    program on the economies of Western Europe has,
sion of agricultural and industrial production, the    however, for the time being, raised new difficulties.
temporary profits will be converted into lasting    The Bank wishes to expand its loan operations in
economic benefits.                               non-dollar currencies insofar as European member
It would be a mistake, however, to appraise the    countries are able to release 18co funds and to
[10]



open their capital markets for the issue of the    resources to the strengthening of defense.
Bank's bonds. A good beginning has been made,     Within the last year four documents of major
and it is highly important that such operations    importance reaffirmed the need for economic de-
be gradually expanded.                          velopment in underdeveloped areas. In the United
During the fiscal year the Bank has obtained    States, Mr. Gordon Gray submitted a Report on
currencies other than United States dollars both    Foreign Economic Policy to the President in which
through releases of 18%  funds and through bor-    he urged an expansion of United States assistance
rowing operations. The currencies thus made avail-   to underdeveloped countries. A report by the In-
able include mainly Canadian dollars and European    ternational Development Advisory Board, headed
currencies. The interchangeability of a portion of    by Mr. Nelson Rockefeller, suggested concrete
the funds obtained in Europe within the framework    measures for carrying out the recommendation of
of the European Payments Union enables the Bank    the Gray Report that the United States make finan-
to use them to finance purchases in most of the    cial and technical aid available to underdeveloped
countries of Western Europe. Loans of funds in    areas and encourage the flow of private capital to
currencies other than United States dollars should    these areas. Both reports expressed the conviction
clearly be to the advantage of those borrowers who,    that the defense efforts of the industrial countries
because of the pattern of their foreign trade and    of North America and Western Europe are insep-
international payments, find it easier to discharge    arable from the continuation of economic aid to
a non-dollar debt than one in dollars. But such    underdeveloped countries.
loans may have more far-reaching consequences.     The countries of the British Commonwealth like-
To the extent that they contribute to the accelera-    wise endorsed the urgency of the task of economic
tion of economic progress in underdeveloped coun-    development in a report on the Colombo Plan for
tries, they may eventually strengthen the ability of    Cooperative Economic Development in South and
these countries to assume debts in all currencies,    Southeast Asia. The first steps have been taken to
including United States dollars. In addition, in    implement this plan through financial and tech-
view of expanded industrial production in Western    nical aid and through international efforts to assist
Europe and limitations on the availability of many    the countries concerned.
types of equipment in the United States, it is quite  The United Nations, in a report by a group of
possible that those countries which can afford to    experts, presented a comprehensive set of recom-
incur dollar indebtedness will increasingly use    mended measures for the speeding up of the rate
borrowed dollars for purchases in non-dollar areas,    of development in underdeveloped countries. These
measures included international action by the
The importance of Economic Development          United Nations and other international agencies,
The improvement in the economic and financial    national action by developed countries, and na-
position of most of the raw materials producing    tional action by underdeveloped countries. It should
countries, together with increased industrial pro-    be noted that, in reporting to the United Nations
duction in Western Europe, provide a new back-    Economic and Social Council concerning the ex-
ground for the efforts of the peoples of under-    perts' recommendations, the Economic, Employ-
developed countries to raise their standard of liv-    ment and Development Commission of that Council
ing. The economically advanced countries have    stated that, generally speaking, it did not consider
given increasing recognition to the urgency of pro-    the experts' statistical estimates of financial needs,
viding aid and encouragement to these efforts -  and especially of needs for foreign financial as-
in spite of growing international tensions and the    sistance, to be substantiated.
necessity of devoting a larger share of national   There is a growing realization that the strength-
[ 11 ]



ening of defense undertaken by the economically    ment of an underdeveloped country, whether they
advanced countries depends in large measure on    are policies designed to foster private initiative or
the continued support and encouragement of the    steps in the direction of expanding the govern-
desire on the part of the peoples in Asia, Africa    ment's own development expenditures, must be
and Latin America to develop their resources. At    coordinated. In the attempt to accelerate capital
the same time, it has been recognized that the    formation, it is particularly important to take ac-
immediate requirements for defense may cause    count of all the potentialities of both local and for-
shortages of certain types of equipment and ma-    eign investment. In many instances the Bank has
terials and may therefore conflict, in the immediate    found that borrowers are likely to consider specific
future, with the carrying out of development pro-    development projects primarily from the point of
grams. But this does not mean that economic de-    view of their suitability for foreign financing,
velopment, which is a long-run and continuous    rather than according to the most pressing needs
process, will have to be interrupted or drastically    of the economy as a whole; consequently, too lit-
curtailed. The industrial capacity of the United    tle consideration is given to the importance of local
States, Canada and Western Europe has grown    investment in economic development.
and continues to grow at a rate which could make    The Bank has always emphasized that economic
it possible to satisfy both the increased claims on    development is a continuous process, and that its
resources arising from military necessity and the    success depends to a large extent on the ability of
essential needs of underdeveloped countries.     the countries themselves to mobilize their total
resources successfully and to use them to the best
Need for Programming                             advantage. The Bank does not conceive of itself
The need for care in the planning of economic    merely as a source of funds for a few isolated
development exists at all times -  regardless of    projects, but is prepared to take an active and con-
economic trends and shifts in economic relation-    tinuing interest in the over-all development prob-
ships among nations. However, at a time when the    lems of a member country. In its lending opera-
income of many underdeveloped countries has in-    tions the Bank has always evaluated requests for
creased sharply, and when goods available for    loans by assessing the contribution of a proposed
development are limited, the need for careful    project to the total economy of a country. This
planning - and particularly the careful selection    evaluation involves an appraisal not only of the
of priorities - takes on new meaning.            technical and financial aspects of the project but
The technique of development programming       also of its relative urgency and comparative value
consists in essence of making an inventory of the    in accelerating a country s economic development.
sum total of the resources available to each econ-    In the normal course of loan negotiations and ad-
omy, and then deciding the order in which various    ministration the Bank sometimes finds itself in a
development projects should be undertaken within    position to make helpful suggestions on engineer-
the limits of available resources. The inventory and    ing and management problems, on marketing, and
the priorities must take into consideration the    on methods of raising local capital.
needs and possibilities for expanding facilities in  Increasingly, however, the Bank is called upon
the fields of education, technical training, public   to provide advice or assistance without reference
administration and health, as well as facilities for    to any immediate financial operation. In large part,
production and basic services.                    these requests for assistance show a growing appre-
The main instrument of all development is ac-    ciation of the need for establishing long-term de-
celerated capital formation. For this purpose, all    velopment programs. Member countries are seek-
developmental activities carried on by the govern-    ing help in formulating and carrying out coordi-
[ 12]



nated programs, and in training personnel in the    the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
techniques of programming development as a    United Nations. The Bank has also stationed staff
whole and in the appraisal of specific projects.  members in several member countries for varying
The Bank endeavors to adapt the form in which    lengths of time to advise the governments in for-
assistance is given to the needs and problems of    mulating development programs.
the particular situation. In the cases of Colombia,  Frequently the Bank is asked for advice or assis-
Cuba, Guatemala, Iraq and Turkey, the Bank has    tance on particular problems, projects, or industries
organized missions, at the request of the govern-    important in development, without relation to any
ments, to make comprehensive economic surveys to    immediate financial operation. Aid of this kind,
assist the government in working out the broad    while usually concerned with economic or financial
outlines of development programs.                 matters, covers a wide range of subjects. It may
As yet this aspect of the Bank's technical assis-    be rendered by members of the Bank's staff, or by
tance activities is difficult to evaluate. Its success    consultants specially engaged or nominated by the
will be determined by the extent to which the sur-    Bank.
vey reports are accepted and acted upon. In Colom-  The varied needs of member nations have thus
bia, where the first such survey was made, the Gov-    led to a growing diversity in the kinds of technical
ernment established a non-partisan committee of    assistance provided, as the more detailed account
leading private citizens to review the report of the    of the Bank's operations will illustrate. It may be
mission and prepare recommendations for a na-    stressed here that many advantages are to be
tional development program.                       gained by underdeveloped countries if they begin
The Bank hopes that similar procedures will be    the admittedly difficult task of formulating their
followed in other countries to which survey mis-   long-run developmental aims with an unbiased
sions have been sent, and is ready to provide    appraisal of the relative urgency and the technical
further assistance whenever possible to help in    feasibility of the various parts of their programs.
working out concrete programs of action based on    It is equally important for them to base their plans
the reports.                                      on sound monetary and fiscal policies. Objective
Some countries have called for more specialized    and careful planning can greatly accelerate the
help. Uruguay and Chile, for example, have asked    speed of economic development. Moreover, the
for the assistance of the Bank in formulating pro-    full utilization of a country's ability to make effec-
grams for agriculture; and the Bank is providing    tive use of its own resources will contribute sub-
this help through missions undertaken jointly with    stantially to its ability to service foreign loans.
BANK LENDING: 1947-1951
The Bank has now been in existence for more    construction efforts of these countries were seri-
than five years, and has been carrying on actual    ously impeded and their economies critically men-
lending operations for more than four. It has made    aced by the lack of adequate resources. Because of
a total of 48 loans amounting to the equivalent    the magnitude of the problem and the need to take
of $1,114 million, including $17 million in can-    action on a large scale, these loans account for
cellations by borrowers. The tabulation on page    nearly one-half of the Bank's total lending. In mak-
14 shows the purposes for which the Bank's loans    ing these loans the Bank assisted in the earlier
have been made.                                   phase of reconstruction, before the European Re-
The first loans were to France, the Netherlands,    covery Program was in operation.
Denmark and Luxembourg, whose economies had         Virtually all other loans have been granted to
suffered severely from the war. The postwar re-   less developed countries for the purpose of accel-
[13]



International Bank Loans                   cilities, and the improvement and expansion of
Classified by Purpose                    telecommunications.
as of June 30, 1951                      It is only natural that, except for the early re-
(In millions of dollars)                construction loans, the Bank's lending operations
Loans to France, Netherlands,
Denmark and Luxembourg                           have been concentrated in the field of basic utili-
for post-war reconstruction. .       497         ties. An adequate supply of power, communications
Other Loans ...............            600         and transportation facilities is a pre-condition for
Electric power -  Machinery,
equipment and construc-                        the most productive application of private savings
tion materials ..........     271              in new enterprises. It is also the first step in the
Transportation ...............  119              gtat
Railroads: locomotives,                        gradual industrialization and diversification of the
rolling stock, rails, and                      underdeveloped countries. These basic facilities
shop supplies .......   61                     require large initial capital outlays which, because
Shipping: vessels and ma-
rine equipment ......   12                   of the low  level of savings and the inadequate
Roads: building machinery                      development of savings institutions, often cannot
and materials ...........  29
anrts:domaerils .                            be financed wholly by the countries themselves.
Ports: dockss, loading                                               v
equipment and dredging                       Moreover, most of the machinery and equipment
machinery ........... 17                     used in the construction of these facilities must be
Communications-Telephone
and telegraph equipment                        imported. Therefore, the resources of the Bank are
and supplies ...........       30              called upon to provide the foreign exchange neces-
Agriculture and Forestry         92              sary for the building of these vitally important
Mechanization: general                         fie
farm  machinery and                          facilties.
equipment ...      .   38
Irrigation and flood con-                        Loans for the expansion of agricultural and for-
trol: construction equip-                    estry production amount to $92 million, or slightly
ment and materials....  35                                                                 t
Land clearing: machinery.  11                  more than 15%  of the Bank's development loans.
Grain storage: construc-                       Of this $92 million, the greater part represents
tion materials ........investment in basic agricultural development
Timber production: ma-
chinery and vehides ...   5                  irrigation, flood control, and land clearing. In most
Industry ................        67              instances, the agricultural projects financed by the
Manufacturing machinery. 60                    B
Mining equipment ......    7                   Bank form  a retativety smatt part of wider pro-
Development Banks  .......       21              grams aimed at expansion of agricultural produc-
Total                               1097      tion and the improvement of productivity. Agri-
Ttl...............109
culture also benefits from  many other projects
financed by the Banlc. Better roads and railways
eraring the growth and improving the basic struc-
mean better markets for farm products; better port
othre dfthevrel onopm ienl  loans  tha e lapied prtion t facilities result in lower costs of fertilizers and
of the developmental loans has been applied to the    agricultural equipment; and more electric power
expansion and improvement of electric power sup-      ailturaeipent; a              more  eler  powe
ply,comunictios an  trnspotaton.  oan  of holds the promitse of a larger and cheaper supply
ply, communications and transportation, Loans of      ofidsrapoucsnedbyamr.
this type to 17 countries have helped to finance the
construction of power plants and transmission sys-       A special category of loans are those made to
tems, the rehabilitation and modernization of rail-    existing or newly established credit institutions
roads, the purchase of merchant vessels and marine    to provide them with foreign-exchange resources
equipment, the acquisition of roadbuilding ma-        which they in turn can put at the disposal of pri-
chinery and materials, the construction of port fa-   vate borrowers engaged in small or medium-sized
[ 14 ]



businesses. In many countries, this important kind    is not available on reasonable terms. The Bank's
of business has not flourished, to some extent be-    purpose in making this type of loan is to encourage
cause the habit of free enterprise does not exist,    private initiative in activities which can do much to
and to some extent because development capital    increase production and improve living standards.
FUTURE POSSIBILITIES
Production in the industrialized countries of    ment have not yet been fully established, it is clear
Western Europe is well above the prewar level, and    that at all stages during the present period of
the United States has expanded its productive fa-    shortages it will be necessary for borrowers to
cilities even beyond the high capacity reached dur-    present full and complete statements on their pro-
ing World War II. The needs of the industrialized    jects to justify the filling of orders on American
countries in Europe and North America for raw     suppliers for critical items. The Bank will assist
materials provide a strong demand for the prod-    member countries, if they request such assistance,
ucts of the underdeveloped countries in Asia,    in drawing up their statements of justification.
Africa and Latin America; and there is every        The problem  of obtaining the materials and
prospect that this demand will continue. These    equipment needed for development is concrete and
basic trends mean good earnings for many of the    tangible. But the progress of economic develop-
underdeveloped countries and - in the perspective    ment depends upon intangible as well as tangible
of years and decades - a good supply of the equip-    considerations. The people of a country must have
ment necessary to economic development.           a purposeful desire to develop their human and
In the year to come, however, the countries de-    natural resources. They must place the interests of
siring to push ahead with their development face    their country ahead of the interests of particular
serious problems. Some kinds of goods they need   groups. They must be prepared to accept the sud-
are in short supply. This is true especially of power-    den and sometimes painful adjustments in their
generating equipment. It is true also of some    social structure that come with economic progress.
types of construction machinery, such as draglines,  In addition to the desire for development and
shovels, heavy tractors and excavators. In the past   the willingness to make the sacrifices involved in
year shortages have actually interfered little with    its achievement, skill in economic programming,
the Bank's operations or with the process of eco-    knowledge of the techniques of financial control,
nomic development generally. As mobilization pro-    competent public administration, and  efficient
gresses, however, the difficulty of getting goods    management of specific projects are necessary. It is
needed for development will undoubtedly increase.    for this reason that the Bank has expanded its
In an effort to help member countries obtain the    technical assistance activities. In the year ahead
equipment they need, and to give them the infor-    the Bank will continue to use the techniques it has
mation required for planning, the Bank has estab-    developed for helping member countries plan their
lished a new unit to keep abreast of supply devel-    further development; and it will continue to ex-
opments in the United States and in Western    periment with new ways of sharing with them what
Europe, to assist borrowers in getting export pri-   it has learned from its own experience.
orities from the United States, and to keep mem-    The Bank will watch with interest the progress
ber countries informed on government regulations    made in putting into effect plans of the more
affecting the availability of goods for export. While    advanced countries for aiding inr the development
procedures for securing allocations of equipment    of other nations. Investment and technical assis-
for foreign economic development projects from    tance by national agencies mean additional sources
the defense agencies of the United States Govern-    of funds, more trained personnel, and more inter-
[ 15 ]



est in the process of development. The Bank bene-    to modify or postpone certain projects. Yet the
fits by this increase of effort and stands ready to    productive potential of the developed countries is
cooperate with national agencies in all phases of    immense, and current strains, although considera-
their development activities. It will also make    ble, are those of a defense economy rather than
every effort to work out with other development    of a war economy. It seems probable, in view of
agencies, national and international, a clear under-    the mutuality of interest between the industrial
standing of the activities to be undertaken by each  and the underdeveloped nations of the world, that
agency so as to avoid the waste of duplicated effort.    sufficient resources will be found and used to keep
The speed of development will depend upon        economic development on its course. The depen-
the effectiveness with which economic resources    dence of industrial nations on increasing supplies
throughout the world are allocated and used; upon  of primary materials from underdeveloped coun-
the skill with which development programs are    tries is great; and investment, especially in power
desi,ned; upon competence in the administration
o nedf                   . p                   and transportation, can increase those supplies.
Of specific projects and of policies affecting devel-
opment; upon the success with which developing     Income from  raw materials exports is essential
countries mob-l.ze dones  capital; and un t for providing to underdeveloped countries the cap-
countries mobilize dom-estic capital; and upon thle    itlncsaytvhi  urhreooi  rges
determination of both the advanced nations and    ital necessary to their further economic progress.
the underdeveloped nations to give economic de-    Even apart from broader considerations, these are
velopment its proper emphasis.                     compelling reasons why investment to increase
There is a sound basis for believing that conflicts    productivity and raise living standards of less de-
in the allocation of scarce materials and equipment    veloped areas of the world should proceed in
can be resolved without serious damage to the    balance with the efforts of the more advanced
continuity of economic development. In the months    nations to strengthen their own economies and
immediately ahead, to be sure, it may be necessary  military defenses.
F 16]



THE BANK'S OPERATIONS
This section is a country-by-country description    less otherwise indicated, the respective govern-
of the operations of the Bank in the past fiscal    ments are the borrowers; loans to other borrow-
year. Information is given for each country on one    ers are government-guaranteed. The interest rates
or more of the following topics: loans made; ne-    shown include the 1%  commission which, under
gotiations and surveys looking forward to possible   the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allocated to
loans; reports of progress made on Bank-financed    the Bank's Special Reserve. Additional details such
projects; and technical assistance to member coun-    as maturity dates of loans, amounts disbursed and
tries.                                          repayments of principal are shown in a tabular
Preceding the account of operations in each    summary of loans in Appendix C, beginning on
country is a list of loans made to that country. Un-    page 54.
AFRICA
Belgian Congo                                   plants, the remainder being largely for agriculture,
Following preliminary discussions earlier in the    housing, public health and education.
year between the Belgian Government and the    Egypt
Bank, the President of the Bank and members of
the staff visited Brussels in May to explore the pos-  Athe   invtationo  t  Egyptian Gvnment,
sii   of th Bak' participatin  in th fianin    the Bank sent a mission to Egypt in June 1951 to
oft a development program for the Belgian Congo.    examine projects for which Bank participation
of a development.pogramfortheBelgianCn  might be requested and to discuss with the Egyp-
During this visit, it was agreed that the Bank            t  tr
would try to work out two loans: first, a loan to    investmenthe pets o beeamine  incld
the Belgian Congo to cover part of the cost of    investment. The projects to be examined include
the  elgin Cogo o coer prt f th  cos of improvement and expansion of irrigation in Upper
goods and equipment which will be imported from  androw er        pand hydroelectric pow er
and Lower Egypt, and hydroelectric poNver com-
countries other than Belgium as a result of public    bined with industrial development at Aswan. The
investment in the Congo; and second, a loan to    Bank mission, first to visit Egypt since March 1949,
Belgium to cover the impact on the Belgian for-    will also bring up to date the Bank's first-hand
eign-exchange position of the additional exports    knowledge of economic and financial conditions
which she will provide to the Congo under the pro-    in the country.
gram. Both loans would be linked to projects form-
ing part of the Congo program. A Bank mission    Ethiopia
visited Brussels at the end of June, en route to   Fiscal $5 million 20-year 4%7 Loan of Septem-
the Congo.                                         1951: ber 13, 1950 for rehabilitation of roads.
$2 million 20-year 4% Loan of Septem-
The Ten Year Plan for the Economic and Social           ber 13, 1950 for establishment of Devel-
Development of the Belgian Congo envisages                opment Bank.
public investment equivalent to $500 million, with        $1.5 million 20-year 4%,j Loan of RFb-
ruary 19, 1951 for development of tele-
private investment of roughly the same amount.            communications.
About half of the investment covered by the public  The Bank's highway loan to Ethiopia was made
investment plan is for transport and communi-   to pay the foreign-exchange costs of a program for
cations, and about one-tenth for electric power    road rehabilitation and maintenance to be carried
f 17]



out by a new Ethiopian Highway Authority. Pro-    vestigate projects to be financed, and will assist
ceeds of the loan will help pay for materials, equip-    prospective borrowers in the preparation of proj-
ment and services needed in the program.        ects. Projects requiring the use of foreign exchange
The improvement of roads is a prerequisite to    from the International Bank loan to pay for im-
the economic development of Ethiopia. A large    ported equipment and services will be presented
part of the country's export goods must be trans-   to the International Bank for approval.
ported by truck for part or all of the way to ports  The Bank's $1.5 million telecommunications
on the Red Sea. In addition, both export and im-    loan will finance the import of equipment needed
port goods travel by truck over feeder roads to    for the expansion and improvement of three dif-
and from main stations of the railway which links    ferent communications systems: the local telephone
the capital city of Addis Ababa with the port of    service at Addis Ababa; an interurban system; and
Djibouti, in French Somaliland. Lack of funds    an international radio-telephone and radio-tele-
and of experienced personnel to supervise high-    graph service. In 1950, there were less than 2,000
way maintenance have caused deterioration of the    telephones in Ethiopia to serve a population esti-
roads. Transportation costs have been high and    mated officially at 15 million persons, and fewer
deliveries of goods slow.                       than 100 communities in the country could be
The Highway Authority, established by the Gov-    reached by telephone or telegraph. Successful com-
ernment in 1951, has the responsibility for plan-    pletion and operation of the projects contemplated
ning, repairing and maintaining the national road    under the Bank's loan would enable producers to
system. In consultation with the Bank, the Govern-    get quicker and wider knowledge of market con-
ment has selected for the Authority a management    ditions, would help shippers and traders to keep
of experienced administrators and technicians from  track of goods moving on the roads, and would
the United States Bureau of Public Roads. An    give the Government additional channels for com-
important function of the Authority is to train  municating both with outlying centers of popula-
Ethiopian personnel in highway work.             tion and with other countries. The Government
The loan for the Development Bank of Ethiopia   intends to establish a new Telecommunication
was made by the International Bank to help provide    Authority to carry out the project and to train
original working capital for this new institution.    Ethiopian personnel, and will select suitable man-
The Government established the Development    agement for the Authority in consultation with the
Bank in 1951, and merged with it the Agricultural    Bank.
Band Co 1mrca, ank of Ethio, which, with           Ethiopia's current balance of payments account
and Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, which, with    ha bee  aprxmtl  neuiiru    ich
small resources, had pioneered in the field of agri-   has been approximately in equilibrium since the
cultural credir. The International Bank's loan pro-    end of World War II. The value of exports has
vides foreign exchange for the new institution; the    been well maintained; a market for hides and skins
Government has subscribed the local capital, which
ultimately will amount to Eth. $11 million (U. S.    present high price of coffee has greatly increased
$4.4 million).                                  the income from the coffee crop, while the Govern-
ment is making efforts to expand its export trade
The Development Bank affords Ethiopia for the    in ote cmo'te.
first time a credit institution adequately capitalized    in other commodities.
for the purpose of making medium and long-term
loans on reasonable terms for projects contributing
to agricultural or industrial development. The man-  Bank participation in the financing of develop-
agement of the Development Bank, selected in    ment in French Overseas Territories has been dis-
consultation with the International Bank, will in-    cussed from time to time with the French Govern-
[ 18]



ment. The Bank understands that documentation    for the expansion and improvement of the state-
is being prepared and may be presented informally    owned transport system operated by the South
to the Bank later in 1951.                      African Railways and Harbors Administration.
To handle the great increase of traffic brought
Southern Rhodesia                               about by the expanding economy of the war and
At the request of the Prime Minister of Southern    postwar years, the Administration has embarked
. .  .    ~on a comprehensive program of improvement and
Rhodesia, the Bank plans to send a mission in the    onaco nsive prram oftimrovementhand
expaso  to b   are   u  rm15  hog
autumn to examine the possibilities of Bank lend-  paso.  ber   crorie  outifrom l195   throug
ing for development.                ~~~1955. Under this program, existing railway lines
ing for development.                            will be improved, new lines constructed, rolling
Union of South Africa                           stock purchased, road services improved, and har-
bors and airports modernized and expanded. The
Fiscal $30 million 20-year 4%o Loan of January  foreign-exchange costs of. this program for 1951
1951: 23, 1951 to the Electricity Supply Com-  and 1952 are estimated at the equivalent of $41
mission for power development program.
$20miion  15-ypwear develoament profJan  million; and part of this amount will be covered
$20 million 15-year 33/41o Loan of Jan-
uary 23, 1951 for expansion of trans-  by the Bank's loan.
portation facilities.                    Simultaneously with the Bank's loan, eight com-
At the time of last year's Annual Meeting, a    mercial banks in the United States extended a
Bank mission was in South Africa. While there it   credit of $10 million, maturing in 1954 and 1955,
reviewed the economic and financial position of    to the Union Government. The proceeds from this
the Union and worked out the details of two loans,    credit will be lent by the Union to the Railways
which were concluded in Washington in January.    and Harbors Administration for purposes com-
A loan of $30 million, guaranteed by the Union,    plementary to those of the loan from the Inter-
was made to the Electricity Supply Commission, an    national Bank.
autonomous state agency, to assist in the expansion  Since the end of World War II, several factors
of its generating, transmission and distribution sys-    have combined to sustain a high level of investment
tem. The Commission supplies about three-quarters    and consumption in the Union of South Africa.
of the electricity consumed in the Union. It serves    At the end of the war, the assets of the banking
an area of 73,000 square miles which includes the    system were very liquid and included ample re-
more industrialized parts of the country. It has    serves of foreign exchange. Investment funds and
greatly increased its generating capacity and its    consumer demand, pent up during the war, were
transmission and distribution network since the    released. The discovery of new gold deposits in
end of the war. Nevertheless, present facilities are    the Orange Free State created new demand for
inadequate for current needs, and will be still less   investment, both in mining and in the provision
able to meet the much greater demands foreseen    of services and amenities. The high level of activity
for the future. The Commission is accordingly en-   throughout the country stimulated a continuation
gaged on an expansion program for the six-year    of the wartime growth of secondary industry, and
period from 1950 through 1955, which is designed    required a general expansion of public utilities.
to keep pace with the economic development tak-    The boom was accelerated by an exceptionally
ing place in all parts of the Union. The Bank's    heavy flow of capital to the Union from the United
loan will assist in financing imports of equipment    Kingdom in 1947 and early in 1948, and by credit
required for this program during the years 1951    expansion within South Africa. During this period,
and 1952.                                       internal savings were low; the high level of invest-
A loan of $20 million was made to the Union    ment and consumption expenditure was maintained
1 19 1



by incurring large deficits on the balance of pay-    and private, considered necessary by South Africa
ments and covering them either by capital inflow    for the next few years, is considerably larger than
or by utilization of foreign-exchange reserves. The  can be financed out of local savings. Consequently,
total balance of payments deficits in 1946-1949     continued development of the economy at the de-
were S. A. £515 million; in this period foreign-    sired rate requires foreign capital. The diflicult
exchange reserves fell from S. A. £266.8 million    position in which South Africa found itself in
($1,160 million) to S. A. £104.6 million ($293      mid-1949, with its foreign-exchange position seri-
million).                                           ously weakened, was the result of a reduction of
In 1950 various factors combined to bring about    private investment from abroad during the second
an improvement in South Africa's international ac-    half of 1948 and the first half of 1949.
counts. There was a substantial increase in the       South Africa has reserves ot toreign exchange
value of exports, owing particularly to high wool    which could be used if necessary to supplement the
prices and the rise (in terms of sterling) of the    inflow of new capital. These reserves, however,
price of gold; imports remained at approximately    are not high for a country which is developing
the 1949 level owing to the continued operation of    rapidly on the basis of an irregular influx of private
import control. Consequently, the deficit on the    foreign capital. The Government has therefore
current balance of payments was reduced from        wished to borrow  dollars and other freely con-
S. A. £111 million in 1949 to S. A. £7 million in   vertible currencies to meet its investment require-
1950. At the same time the inflow of capital from   ments, and has encouraged the inflow of private
the United Kingdom led to an increase in foreign-    capital from hard-currency countries. The Govern-
exchange reserves of S. A. £61.4 million ($173      ment's borrowings from  the International Bank
million) during the year.                           and from private banks in the United States are
The size of the investment program, both public    an expression of this policy.
A S I A
Ceylon                                              financial position of the railways has also im-
A mission to Ceylon is presently being organized  proved, and should be further strengthened by the
by the Bank to undertake a general survey of the    increase in rates introduced in 1951. To reduce
economy of that country.                  overhead costs and make more effective use of
railway facilities, the Indian Railways are being
India                                               reorganized and regrouped for administrative pur-
Fiscal $34 million 15-year 4% Loan of August     poses into six regional zones.
1950. 18, 1949 for railway rehabilitation; re-     Organizational and managerial difficulties in the
duced to $32.8 million May 16, 1950 at    execution of the project for land reclamation, partly
request of borrower                      hfinanced out of the Bank's $10 million loan, have
$10 million 7-year 31/27o Loan of Sep-    continued. The clearance of lands infested with
tember 29, 1949 for importation of agri-
cultural machinery.                       kans grass is proceeding at an increasing rate, but
$18.5 million 20-year 4%O Loan of April   is still slower than had been expecred. In the
18, 1950 for power development project.   1950-51 season 224,000 acres were cleared witlh
The Bank's railway loan to India has been fully   Bank-financed equipment. The pilot project for
disbursed. There has been an appreciable im-    the clearance of jungle land has been successfully
provement during the past year in the efficiency    carried out. On four occasions since the spring of
of the railways which has contributed substantially  1950 the Bank sent technical experts to India
to the strengthening of the Indian economy. The    to exchange views with the Government on meth-
[20]



ods to remove existing difficulties and ensure suc-    price levels. Production declined in the important
cessful completion of the entire undertaking. It   jute and cotton industries in 1950 because of raw-
has been agreed between the Government and the    materials shortages and some labor difficulties; but
Bank that the present fleet of tractors will not be    output increased in most other industrial fields as
increased; however, a part of the undisbursed bal-    well as in power, transport and mining.
ance of the loan will be used to finance the pur-   In spite of increased expenditure for economic
chase of additional spare parts for tractors and  development, the 1950-51 budget closed more
auxiliary equipment.                             favorably than was expected, and for the first time
The Bokaro-Konar power project in the Damo-    since the partition of India and Pakistan, there
dar Valley is progressing satisfactorily. The first    was no reduction in the Government's cash bal-
thermal unit at Bokaro should be ready for opera-    ances. For 1951-52 the Government again proposes
tion at the end of 1952 as originally planned. Its   to increase expenditures for economic develop-
operation through the subsequent dry season, how-    ment.
ever, will depend largely on the amount of cooling
water provided by tlhe Konar Dam; and completion    Iran
of the dam will be delayed because of changes in    A Bank mission visited Iran in April and May
design.                                           of 1950 to make a survey of the economic and
During the fiscal year, certain developments in    financial situation and to discuss with the Govern-
the Indian economy were more favorable than in    ment the technical and financial aspects of a few
previous years. India built up a current balance of    specific projects. In August 1950 the Bank advised
payments surplus, including substantial net dollar    the Government that it was ready to open nego-
earnings. Foreign-exchange assets increased, in    tiations for a loan to rehabilitate and expand the
contrast to the steady decline prior to devaluation  port of Khorramshar. At the same time, the Bank
in 1949. Many of the difficulties arising from the    informed the Government that it would require
protracted trade deadlock with Pakistan have been    supplementary information before it could consider
dispelled by the trade settlement between the two  projects for the construction of cement plants and
countries early in 1951. Greater availability of    for a multiple-purpose dam on the river Karaj near
essential supplies from  Pakistan, especially raw  Teheran. The Bank also asked for a statement of
jute, should strengthen India's export position.    the policies of the new Government in fiscal, credit
However, a normal relationship between the two    and monetary matters, and in the administration
countries cannot be expected until a solution of the    of the Seven Year Development Plan. With the
major political issues which exist between them   deterioration of the budgetary situation which had
has been found. In the year 1951 as a whole the    set in during recent years, the Government had
Indian balance of payments position may be af-    diverted from  developmental investment a sub-
fected by heavy import requirements, particularly    stantial part of its oil revenue. The result had been
of grain needed to make up the deficiencies caused  a serious slowing down of the pace of developmcnt
by wide-spread crop failures in 1950. The United  contemplated in the Seven Year Plan.
States Government has authorized a long-term loan   In October 1950 the Government advised the
of $190 million to finance part of the grain-import    Bank that it considered the cement and Karaj
requirements.                                     dam  projects of high priority and gave certain
Since the autumn of 1950, prices in India have    general assurances regarding its financial policies
been rising. The effects of devaluation have been    and the administrative set-up of the Seven Year
reinforced by a sharp seasonal upswing in business    Plan.
activity, an export surplus, and increasing world   An Iranian delegation, which arrived in Wash-
[ 211



ington in November 1950 to negotiate with the     struction at the Port of Basrah of a complete grain
United States Export-Import Bank, visited the    handling and storage plant of 40,000 tons capacity.
Bank in January 1951. It submitted additional    Through its grading and cleaning facilities, the
information on the projects under consideration   plant would contribute to an improvement of earn-
and discussed other projects for possible Bank    ings from the export of grain. The proposed ma-
financing. After a preliminary exchange of views    chinery loan would finance a short-term program
with the delegation, the Bank advised the Govern-    of importing agricuLtural equipment, in part on
ment in January 1951 that it was willing to consider    government account for rental, and in part on pri-
a material contribution to the development of Iran  vate account for sale to individual farmers. Me-
and suggested that a Bank representative should    clhanical cultivation would help materially to ex-
visit Teheran to establish with the Government an  pand production on dry-farming land and increase
appropriate basis for Bank assistance in the light    the exportable surplus of grain. Discussions on
of Iran's economic and financial situation and loan-    these projects are proceeding.
servicing capacity. The Iranian Government ac-      The Government has informed the Bank that no
cepted this suggestion and an exchange of views    loan will be required for the Euphrates flood-con-
between the Government and the Loan Director    trol and irrigation project, which will be financed
took place in Teheran in February 1951.           out of the resources of the Development Board
Events in Iran since March 1951 have made it    established in 1950 for the purpose of planning
necessary for the Bank to wait until the situation  and executing a program of economic develop-
has clarified sufficiently to enable the Bank to  ment.
make a re-assessment of Iran's position.            In response to a request submitted in January
1951 to finance a modern oil refinery, the Bank
Iraq                                              recommended that the Government undertake
Fiscal $12.8 million 15-year 33/4%  Loan of    studies to determine how this project could be eco-
190.: June 15, 1950 for flood control.         nomically developed in conjunction with existing
The Iraqi Government has called for bids on    facilities. The Bank also notified the Government
part of the construction of the Wadi Tharthar    of its interest in the project, if it can be properly
flood-control project to be carried out under the    worked out.
Bank's loan, and the arrangements necessary to     Increased oil royalties, expanded agricultural
make the loan effective were nearly complete.    production, and high export prices have brought
When the loan agreement was signed, the Govern-    about considerable improvement in Iraq's economic
ment indicated to the Bank its desire to obtain fur-    situation during the last two years. A surplus in
ther financial assistance for agricultural develop-    Iraq's balance of payments was achieved in 1950
ment. The Bank agreed to undertake studies on the  and the Government's fiscal position has been
ground to establish the suitability of selected    strengthened. Revenues from  oil royalties have
projects, and for this purpose sent a technical mis-    been assigned to the Development Board; and de-
sion to Iraq early in November 1950.              velopment should be greatly accelerated as the in-
As a result of this mission, the Bank advised    creasing revenues from a higher rate of royalties
the Government in February 1951 that it was pre-    and the expanding oil production become avail-
pared to negotiate loans for the importation of    able.
agricultural machinery, for the construction of     In October 1950 the Government requested the
grain-storage facilities, and for flood control and  Bank to send a comprehensive survey mission to
irrigation on the Euphrates.                      undertake a review of the country's economic po-
The grain-silo project would provide for the con-    tential and to make recommendations for thie
[ 22 ]



most effective use of Iraq's physical and financial    by the increased world demand and high prices for
resources for a long-term program of development.    her exports. Early in 1951 the virtual trade dead-
In response to this request the Bank organized a    lock with India was broken by the conclusion of a
mission of 14 technical and economic experts re-    new trade agreement. However, the major political
cruited on a broad international basis. The mis-    issues which exist between the two countries still
sion, headed by Dr. Ivar Rooth, left for Iraq in    hamper the establishment of normal relations. In
the latter part of February and returned to Wash-    the 1950-51 financial year Pakistan reached an
ington in June 1951. It studied all major segments    over-all balance in its budgetary position and since
of the Iraqi economy, including public finance, agri-    September 1950 has substantially increased its for-
culture, animal husbandry, irrigation, flood control    eign assets through a current balance of payments
and drainage, transportation, industry and power,    surplus. Economic development in Pakistan is
public health, education, public administration   already going forward and the general lines of
and community planning and housing. The mission   emphasis appear well conceived.
is now preparing its findings and recommendations.  From October to December 1950 Pakistan was
host to a Training Institute on the Economic Ap-
Lebanon                                           praisal of Agricultural Development Projects. Held
Bank representatives visited Lebanon and had    in Lahore, the training institute was sponsored
discussions with the Government in December    jointly by the United Nations, the Food and Agri-
1950. The project for the development of hydro-    culture Organization, and the Bank for the purpose
electric power and irrigation on the Litani River,    of training government officials of member coun-
now being surveyed, may require external aid in    tries in the techniques of preparing and executing
its financing.                                    programs and projects. The institute was attended
by representatives of Australia, Burma, India,
Pakistan                                          Indonesia, Japan, Nepal, Pakistan and Thailand.
In October 1950 the Bank sent a mission to
Pakistan to examine economic and financial con-    Syria
ditions and to appraise projects on which the Gov-  In August 1950 the Syrian Government advised
ernment had submitted data during the previous    the Bank of its intention to apply for a loan for the
summer.                                          financing of various projects, including flood con-
In March 1951 the Bank informed the Govern-    trol, irrigation and drainage, hydroelectric power
ment that it was prepared to enter into negotia-    and port and railroad construction. A Bank mission
tions for Bank participation in financing the reha-    visited Syria during November and December
bilitation of the railways and the expansion of    1950 to make a preliminary survey of the economic
power, agriculture, industry and telecommunica-    and financial situation and to review specific pro-
tions. A delegation from Pakistan arrived during  posals.
the last week of June to open loan negotiations.    Two projects were submitted in January 1951
While Pakistan has been confronted with diffi-   for Bank consideration. One provides for the drain-
cult economic and financial problems since its crea-    age and irrigation of 10,000 acres of swamp land
tion as an independent nation, it produces an ade-    in the Roudj, near Aleppo; the other is for the
quate internal food supply and exports substantial    improvement of roads, primarily in the Jezira, a
surpluses of basic agricultural products. Recent    rapidly developing agricultural area in the north-
developments have been particularly favorable.    east. A third proposal, for the expansion of the
Since the latter part of 1950 Pakistan's internal    port of Latakia to a minimum annual capacity of
and external financial position has been bolstered    400,000 tons to handle the increasing exports of
[ 23 ]



agricultural products, was submitted in May.     the railways system. Previously, the railways had
There are several other projects in preparation  been operated by a department of the Ministry
which may be presented for Bank consideration.    of Communications. The railways are now gov-
In compliance with the desire of the Government,    erned by a board with a director in charge of
negotiations for the financing of irrigation and  management and operations.
road improvement are waiting until the Bank has     The irrigation loan will finance the cost of imi-
concluded its examination of the Latakia Port    ported equipment and materials for a project to
Project.                                          provide an assured water supply to a rice-produc-
Since 1949 there has been a considerable im-    ing area of 21/4 million acres in the central plain.
provement in Syria's economic situation, due prin-    The project includes a barrage, with housing for
cipally to a remarkable increase in the production    the future installation of power-generating equip-
of cotton and grain, and to an expansion of ex-    ment, to partially retain the waters of the Chao
ports, which have recently commanded greatly in-    Phya River at Chainat. The execution of this proj-
creased prices.                                   ect, which is expected to take eight years, will be
On the other hand, the Government budget has    carried out by the Irrigation Department of the
been showing deficits, which have been caused in  Ministry of Agriculture, which has retained the
part by heavy military expenditures. Only a part    services of a foreign construction firm to furnish
of the deficits has been met from  accumulated    technical advice. Rice production in the area served
reserves, the remainder being covered by borrow-    by the irrigation project is expected to increase
ings from the Banque de Syrie et du Liban, which    sufficiently to provide an exportable rice surplus
performs the functions of a bank of issue. These    of nearly half a million tons even after allowance
borrowings have had no appreciable effect on cur-   is made for increased local consumption require-
rency circulation, but they have resulted in a con-    ments.
siderable reduction of Syria's foreign-exchange     The port construction and development loan will
reserves.                                        finance the acquisition of port equipment, and
will help pay the foreign-exchange cost of dredging
Thailand                                          w                                           7
a channel through the sandbar at the mouth of the
Fiscal $3 million 15-year 33/4A  Loan of Octo-  Chao Phya River to permit larger vessels to enter
1951. ber 27, 1950 for railway rehabilitation,  the port of Bangkok. The project should increase
$18 million 20-year 4%o Loan of October
27, 1950 for irrigation project.        the port's capacity and reduce cargo-handling costs
$4.4 million 15-year 33/4% Loan of Oc-  by the elimination of charges for lighterage and
tober 27, 1950 for port development.    transshipment. In the interests of efficient opera-
The major part of the Bank's railway rehabilita-    tion, regulation and unified development of port
tion loan will be devoted to equipping the railway  and navigation facilities in the Bangkok area, a
workshops at Makkasan according to plans pre-    government-owned  autonomous  authority, the
pared by consulting engineers retained by the Gov-    Thai Port, was created in May 1951. The Port is
ernment. These workshops will provide for main-    now governed by a board of commissioners and
tenance of locomotives and rolling stock. The    administered by a port director.
balance of the loan will be used to purchase me-    The Bank has cooperated with the Government
chanical signaling equipment and spare parts. An  in obtaining the services of technical experts for
autonomous government-owned agency, the Rail-    various duties in Thailand. Most of the experts
ways Authority of Thailand, was established by    have been retained to advise on projects financed
act of Parliament in May 1951 and was made    by the Bank; one will advise the Government on
responsible for the operation and development of    fiscal administration.
[ 24 1



During the year under review  the economic    tin, which had lagged since the war, recovered to
situation continued to improve. The upward trend  nearly the prewar average. Thailand achieved large
in production has continued, and a further increase    trade and balance of payments surpluses with both
in exports has been achieved. Thailand, with 1.5    the hard and soft-currency areas, and its gold and
million tons of rice exported in 1950, is the world's   foreign-exchange reserves, which had been rising
largest rice exporter. Rubber exports increased to    since 1948, reached a new high. The internal price
more than twice the prewar level, and exports of    level has remained relatively stable.
AUSTRALIA
Fiscal $100 million 25-year 4/47o Loan of     ing, iron and steel production, and a broad range
1951: August 22, 1950 for development pro-    of other industries; and, concurrently, the develop-
ment of water conservation, hydroelectric power
The Bank's loan to Australia followed negotia-    facilities, road and rail transport, housing and pub-
tions which were initiated in Washington by the    lic utilities. The carrying out of this program should
Commonwealth Prime Minister. The loan was    add substantially to the country's productive capac-
made to help pay the cost of importing capital    ity and strengthen its long-run balance of payments
goods and equipment needed for development    position.
projects, both private and governmental, over the   The major part of the Bank's loan will be used
next two years.                                  for equipment needed by farmers and private busi-
Australia is embarking on a period of rapid eco-    ness concerns. Specialized agricultural machinery
nomic development. A sharp rise in immigration   and equipment, such as crawler and special wheel
has contributed to an annual rate of population    tractors, are needed to increase farm mechaniza-
increase of 31/2%; and it is an aim of Australian    tion, promote more intensive cultivation and make
policy to continue a high rate of immigration over    possible the introduction of the latest agricultural
the next decade. This gives rise to large investment    techniques. Heavy crawler tractors and earth-mov-
requirements for new productive facilities, hous-    ing equipment will assist in opening up new areas,
ing and public utilities. In addition, there are sub-    clearing land for cultivation, providing irrigation,
stantial investment needs resulting from unsatisfied    conserving water resources and constructing hy-
demand during World War II, as well as from the    droelectric works.
normal industrial development of a young country    To meet the special operating conditions on the
with unexploited natural resources.               Australian railways - long stretches of line poorly
The development program  which the Bank's    supplied with water - diesel electric locomotives
loan will help finance forms one part of the Com-    are being acquired. The expansion of strip mining
monwealth Government's plan for dealing with    in New South Wales will be assisted by heavy
the problems brought about by high demand for    excavators, stripping shovels and specialized drills,
investment and production. Since the bulk of capi-    and the modernization of underground mines by
tal investment in Australia is undertaken by private    coal cutters, loaders and underground locomotives.
enterprise, it is not possible to lay down beforehand  Equipment for the mining, smelting and refining
the precise proportions of investment in different    of non-ferrous metals will improve operating effi-
economic fields. Among other things, however,    ciency.
Australia's development plans provide for the       A substantial part of the loan will be used for
modernization and expansion of agriculture, coal    urgently needed items of capital equipment for a
and non-ferrous metal mining, smelting and refin-    wide variety of manufacturing industries. In the
[ 25 ]



steel industry the increase of pig-iron and steel-    Commonwealth possessed large sterling reserves
ingot capacity and the erection of a hot and cold    and received a substantial inflow of private sterling
continuous strip mill, a skelp mill and a cold    capital. Australia continued to have a surplus in
reversing sheet mill all require dollar equipment    its current balance of payments and increased its
which the Bank's loan is financing. Equipment will   sterling reserves to a level much higher than at the
be procured for the production and processing of    end of 1945. However, these resources could not
aluminum; modern mechanical foundry opera-    be used to import all the goods and equipment
tions; gear-cutting and the manufacture of ma-    needed because adequate supplies were not avail-
chine tools; the manufacture of roller chain and    able in soft-currency countries. In these circum-
conveyor systems; food processing; and the manu-    stances, the Government decided that recourse
facture of rayon filament.                      must be taken to hard-currency sources of supply
When Australia attempted to satisfy investment    in order to obtain the goods urgently required for
demands which had been postponed during World    economic development. In view of the difficulty of
War II, inflationary pressures began to appear,    obtaining hard currency within the sterling area,
accompanied by shortages of labor and of many    the Government approached the International
important materials and types of equipment. The    Bank to obtain a loan in dollars.
EUROPE
Belgium                                           As mentioned on page 17, discussions were
Fiscal $16 million 20-year 41,4%  Loan of    started in June on a possible loan to Belgium to
1949: March 1, 1949 for steel plants and elec-  cover the impact on the Belgian foreign-exchange
tric power.                            position of additional exports which Belgium may
In April 1951 Bank engineers visited Belgium  provide to the Congo for development purposes.
to observe the work on the projects financed under  The declining levels of production, employment
the loan. The slabbing and blooming mill of S. A.    and prices which dominated the Belgian economic
d'Ougr6e-Marihaye has been in full operation for    scene up to the summer of 1950, were abruptly
over a year and is producing at an annual rate of    reversed by the outbreak of hostilities in Korea.
900,000 tons. The cold rolling mill of the Com-    A wave of buying - both by domestic and foreign
pagnie des Fers Blancs et T6les a Froid (Ferblatil)    consumers -  badly depleted normal inventory
at Tilleur began operating in June 1950 and is now  holdings and sent the index of industrial produc-
in production. The tinning line, which will pro-    tion to an all-time high. A new stimulus was given
duce high-quality tin plate, and is the only one in    to the heavy industries in which production had
continental Europe using the electrolytic tin-plat-    declined markedly. The increase in demand, com-
ing process, started operations on March 15, 1951.    bined with price increases in world markets, caused
The construction of the thermal power plant at    a sharp rise in the level of domestic wholesale
Awirs of the Union des Centrales Electriques de    prices. Unemployment dropped sharply while gov-
Liege-Namur-Luxembourg (Linalux) is nearing    ernment revenues rose. The combined effect of
completion. The first turbine was started on May    these developments materially improved the pub-
21, 1951 and the second should be in operation    lic finances, although the grave international sit-
in September. It is expected that at the end of the    uation increased rearmament needs and thereby
year the plant will work at its full installed capac-   imposed an additional burden on the country.
ity of 100,000 kw. Total disbursements under the    The high levels of economic activity brought an
loan amounted to $12.5 million at the end of the    increased demand for imports and caused a defcit
fiscal year.                                    in the current balance of payments of the Belgo-
[ 26 ]



Luxembourg Economic Union in all currencies    ous dollar problem as a result of high prices for
equivalent to $190 million during 1950. This, to-    essential raw-material imports, declining ECA aid,
gether with some outflow of capital, brought about    and dollar payments to the European Payments
a decline in the gold reserves of the National Bank    Union to finance the Danish deficit with OEEC
which has since, however, been partly recovered.    countries. At the same time, rearmament in other
The dollar deficit of the Economic Union was re-    countries is making it more difficult for Denmark
duced to $200 million by means of increased ex-    to obtain necessary supplies of important raw ma-
ports and continued to be largely financed by ECA  terials.
conditional aid.                                    The Vice President of the Bank visited Denmark
in September 1950 and discussed matters of com-
Denmark                                          mon interest with representatives of the Govern-
Fiscal $40 million 25-year 4¼% Loan of Au-    ment and other officials. The Bank has since con-
1948: gust 22, 1947 for reconstruction.       tinued to consult with the Government with regard
It is now about two and one-half years since dis-   to measures by Denmark to meet her present
bursement was completed on the loan made before    problems.
the advent of the European Recovery Program,
when there was urgent need for the Bank to help    Finland
meet the problem of financing essential imports for  F;scal $12.5 million 15-year 4%  Loan of Au-
postwar reconstruction.                             1950: gust 1, 1949 to the Bank of Finland for
development of power, woodworking in-
Danish production has successfully recovered             dustries and limestone powder produc-
from dislocations caused by the war. Agricultural          tion.
production is at present 10%7 above prewar levels          $2.3 million 2-year 3% Loan of October
and industrial output is almost 60%  higher than           17, 1949 for timber equipment.
in the best prewar year. The rate of exports is     More than half of the $12.5 million loan made
more than 20%° above the prewar volume.          to the Bank of Finland has been disbursed. Most
Unfortunately, these achievements have not    of the equipment for the electric power program
brought Denmark the benefits which were hoped    has been delivered and paid for, and the program
for two and a half years ago. The terms of trade    itself is nearing completion. Of the relatively small
deteriorated seriously after the currency devalua-    amount for limestone grinding, most has been
tion of 1949. This development has been further    disbursed. Disbursement for machinery for the
accentuated since the outbreak of war in Korea.    modernization and expansion of a number of
Since September 1949, the prices of Denmark's    plants in the woodworking industries has been
imports have risen by more than 60%. The prices    slower. This has been due largely to the redistri-
of her exports, oIn the other hand, have increased    bution of orders to take advantage of changes in
only a few per cent, in part because exports to the    the price of equipment after the devaluation of
United Kingdom are largely governed by long-    European currencies.
term bulk-purchase contracts. The significance of   Slightly less than $2 million of the $2.3 million
the deterioration in the terms of trade for the Dan-    loan to the Government to finance purchases of
ish economy is illustrated by the fact that, but for    timber equipment had been disbursed by the end
these price changes, Denmark would have achieved    of the fiscal year, and withdrawals were continuing.
a small surplus on her balance of payments account  Brisk demand and high prices for paper, pulp
for 1950 instead of a deficit equivalent to about    and other wood products have raised Finland's
$100 million. Although exports to the dollar area    production and exports to new higlh levels. Post-
have risen considerably, Denmark still faces a seri-    war reconstruction is virtually completed and rep-
[ 27 1



arations deliveries, due to end in September 1952,  Production in France has geared itself to a higher
are already tapering off. Finland's payments posi-   level of industrial activity than it had reached at
tion, both with regard to dollars and other cur-   the outbreak of war in Korea. However, the grow-
rencies, is satisfactory but is dependent upon a con-    ing burden of rearmament, shortages and higher
tinuation of the present highly favorable terms of    prices of raw materials, the budgetary deficit, and
trade. Inflation -  caused chiefly by a high level    the inflationary rise in domestic prices remain seri-
of investment and the heavy burden of reparations,    ous problems. The external financial position con-
and aggravated by rising money incomes of both    tinued to improve in 1950. The current account
farmers and workers - remains the most urgent    of the balance of payments of the franc area
economic problem. During the past year inflation    showed a deficit equivalent to $238 million; the
has been given additional impetus by the rise in    dollar deficit was $419 million, but there was a
prices of imported raw materials. However, since    substantial surplus with other continental Euro-
January 1951 a stronger anti-inflationary policy    pean countries. In the first half of 1951, for metro-
has been adopted.                                politan France only, the deficit in dollar trade
The Vice President of the Bank visited Finland    was substantially lower than in the corresponding
in September 1950 and a small delegation from    period of 1950. However, the position in trade
Finland came to the Bank in February 1951. As a    with other areas, notably Europe, was less favor-
result of discussions held at these times, several    able so that the over-all trade deficit with foreign
proposals have been made to the Bank for further    countries was approximately the same.
lending. The Bank has indicated its willingness to
consider these proposals after it has been supplied    Iceland
with information on Finland's over-all investment
program.                                            Fircal £875,000 22-year 43/s%  Loan of June
1951: 20, 1951 for power development projects.
France                                             The loan of £875,000 ($2.45 million) made this
Fiscal $250 million 30-year 4¼4 % Loan of May  year to finance the cost of imported equipment for
1947: 9, 1947 to Credit National for recon-   the expansion of electric power in Iceland is the
struction.                              first Bank loan consisting entirely of currencies
The Bank continued to maintain close contact    other than United States dollars. It will be dis-
with the French Government throughout the past    bursed in sterling, French francs, Danish kroner
year. The President of the Bank held numerous    and Norwegian kroner for purchases in Sweden,
discussions with leading Government officials dur-   the United Kingdom, Western Germany, Denmark
ing his visits to Paris and members of the Bank's    and Norway .The United Kingdom, France, Den-
engineering staff visited France in the spring. Of    mark and Norway have agreed to release, for this
the projects which the Bank helped to finance    loan, portions of their 18%  subscriptions to the
through its $250 million loan, two steel mill proj-    Bank's capital. Part of these releases will be used
ects are the last to be completed. The cold rolling    for purchases in Sweden and Western Germany,
mill at Montataire, completed in January 1950, has    which are not yet members of the Bank.
now been in regular production for over a year;     The loan will help to finance two hydroelectric
and the quality of the sheets rolled by this mill    projects which will further develop the resources
is reported to be excellent. At Denain, the reversi-    of the Sog and Laxa Rivers. The entire cost of
ble slabbing mill was put into production on De-    these two projects is the equivalent of $13 million;
cember 31, 1950; it is not expected to be in full   the purchase of equipment in the United States in
operation, however, before the end of 1951.       the amount of nearly $5 million is to be financed
[ 28]



by ECA, and the Icelandic krona costs will be    per il Mezzogiorno) was satisfactory, and that
financed locally.                                  suitable projects had been selected. These projects
These projects are of high priority in Iceland's    are now being drawn up in a form which will make
investment program. The existing supply of elec-    possible their detailed appraisal by the Bank. The
tric power is insufficient to meet present industrial    Bank has indicated that its interest in the develop-
and household needs; and in addition to meeting    ment of Southern Italy is intended to be a con-
these requirements, an increased supply of power    tinuing one.
is needed to make possible the establishment of      As indicated in the last Annual Report, the pro-
new industries which would tend to diversify the    gram for Southern Italy involves expenditures of
economy and help reduce dependence on fishing      public funds over a period of ten years at the rate
and related industries.                            of 100 billion lire ($160 million) per annum, of
Iceland has, since the war, been engaged in a    which three-quarters will be spent on land reclama-
heavy investment program which has had consid-    tion, irrigation, and agricultural improvement, and
erable inflationary impact. Now, however, the    the remainder on the construction of aqueducts,
Government has adopted policies to restrict credit   the rehabilitation of roads, and the development of
and  balance the budget. Certain  institutional    tourist facilities. Funds are to be appropriated an-
changes to enable Iceland to carry forward a well    nually by the Treasury, including in the first two
regulated investment program are also being con-    years of the program substantial amounts of the
sidered. A  Bank staff member visited Iceland    lire counterpart of United States aid. The program
in February 1951 to study investment requirements    has been formulated by a committee of Cabinet
and the institutional changes needed for their most    Ministers responsible also for coordinating it with
effective accomplishment. His findings and recom-    the programs of public works remaining within
mendations have been submitted to the Govern-    the competence of the ministries.
ment. There is a continued exchange of views
between the Government and the Bank on this and    Luxembourg
other matters of common interest.                     Fiscal $12 million 25-year 41/4o Loan of Au-
1948. gust 28, 1947 for reconstruction; reduced
to $11.8 million on December 19, 1949
Italy                                                       at request of borrower.
The possibility of the Bank's assisting in the de-  In April 1951 Bank engineers visited the steel
velopment of Southern Italy was mentioned in the    mill projects of the Aci6ries R6unies de Burbach-
Fifth Annual Report. In August 1950 the Bank       Eich-Dudelange (Arbed) at Dudelange, the for-
informed the Italian Government of its willingness    eign-exchange cost of which was financed under
to participate in the financing of the 10-year pro-    the Bank's $12 million loan. Disbursement of loan
gram for that area. The purpose of Bank assistance    proceeds was completed in December 1949. Both
would be to mneet the additional demand for dol-   the hot and the cold rolling mills have been in
lar imports arising from investment activity in the  operation since the spring of 1951. The annual
South. The technique would be for the Bank to    capacity of the hot mill is 400,000 tons, and of the
select projects which would be financed by the lire    cold mill 180,000 tons, but it is not expected that
counterpart of its loan.                           the mills will operate at full capacity until the
In the spring of 1951, the Bank sent a mission   additional steel-producing facilities, now  under
to Italy to investigate the technical aspects of the  construction, are completed.
program. The mission reported that the general       Luxembourg has benefited greatly from the re-
conception of the program was sound, that the or-    covery in the demand for steel. Production reached
ganization responsible for its execution (the Cassa    251,000 metric tons in April 1951, compared \\ ithl
[7293



180,500 in the corresponding month of 1950, and       imports of Swiss machinery than before. It also
was still rising. Total Government revenues dur-      allots a substantially larger proportion of loan
ing the first quarter of 1951 slightly exceeded those  funds to the textile industry.
for the same period of last year.                        The output of goods and services in the Nether-
lands has continued to increase, making possible
The Netherlands                                       a further slight rise in real per capita income in
Fiscal $195 million 25-year 414%  Loan of         1950. The level of domestic consumption con-
1948: Auclust 7, 1947 for reconstruction.          tinued to decline somewhat, allowing a higher rate
Fiscal $12 million 10-year 3-9/16%G Loans of       of investment, largely in increased inventories.
7949: Julv 15, 1948 to N. V. Stoomvaarr Maat-      Considerable inflationary pressures developed, gen-
schappij "Nederland" (two loans of $2       erated by a combination of internal credit expan-
million each), N. V. Vereenigde Neder-
landsclie Scheepvaartmaatschappij (one      sion and the rise of prices in world markets. Owing
loan of $2 million), N. V. Nederlandsch-    to sustained high tax receipts the Treasury cash
Amerikaansche Stoomvaart-Mattschappij
"Holland Amerika Lijn" (one loan of         position developed favorably through  1950 but
$2 million), and N. V. Rotterdamsche        due to tightening of the market for Treasury securi-
Lloyd (two loans of $2 million each), for   ties, the cash position has considerably deteriorated
purchase of ships.                          during the first half of 1951. The balance of pay-
Fiscal $15 million 15-year 4c%G Loan of July 26,   ments has suffered a sharp setback. The deficit on
1950: 1949 to the Maatschappij tot Financier-
ing van het Nationaal Herstel N. V.         current account climbed from roughly the equiva-
(Herstelbank) for industrial development    lent of $74 million in 1949 to $237 million in 1950
projects; reduced to $8.8 million March     because of deterioration in the terms of trade and
17, 1950 at request of borrower.
increased imports for inventory accumulations. Th-e
The administration of the $195 million recon-       ratio of exports to imports fell from 72%  in 1949
struction loan, which has been fully disbursed, has    to 68%  in 1950. The deficit with the dollar area,
proceeded satisfactorily. The $12 million loan to     however, continued to decrease from $191 million
four shipping companies has been reduced to $9        in 1949 to $107 million in 1950.
million through repayments made to the private
C                              ~~~~~~~~~~The Netherlands faces serious problems in its
banks in the United Stares which, with the Inter-    efforts to balance its foreign accounts, while at the
national Bank's guarantee, have purchased the loan .  .          u
>                    ~~~~~~same time undertaking an expanded defense pro-
in its entirety.                                      gram. The Government is seeking by fiscal and
The loan to the Herstelbank, a finance corpora-     monetary measures to bring about a reduction in
tion for national reconstruction, for the rehabilita-  consumption and a substantial cut in net invest-
tion and modernization of a considerable num-         ment, and thus to release resources for the defense
ber of manufacturing industries, is being utilized    effort and to overcome the deficit in the balancc
gradually. Total disbursements by June 30, 1951       of payments.
amounted to approximately $4 million; only three
of the more than 30 individual projects have been     Turkey
reported completed.
Fi,rcal   3.9 million 18-year 37/s% Loan of Jul'
As a result of the currency devaluations and the       1951.  7, 1950 for (grain-storagc facilitics.
increasing availability of industrial equipment in               $12.5 million 25-year 414 %C Loan of Julv
Western Europe, the character of the original loan               7, 1950 for development of ports.
was substantially modified, some projects being                  S9 million 15-year 33jj.4 Loan of Octo-
eliminated, others changed, and new ones intro-                  ber 19, 1950 to Industrial Dcvelopmnc
Bank of Turkey for dcvclopmeit of pri-
duced. The loan now includes a larger share of                   vate industry.
[ 30 ]



Most of the projects under the grain-storage    developing the basic public utilities, the report
loan will be from six months to a year behind their    points out, and this progress should make it pos-
scheduled dates. Delays also have occurred in the    sible, with careful planning, to increase the pro-
selection of engineering consultants on port devel-    duction both of agricultural and industrial con-
opment, but it is now expected that port projects    sumer goods.
will go forward.                                  Turkey is carrying out a large development pro-
As described in the Fifth Annual Report, the    gram, of which the projects financed by the Bank
privately owned Industrial Development Bank was    form only a small part. At the same time, she is
created as a result of discussions between the Turk-    building up her military detenses, which will con-
ish Government, private Turkish interests and the    tinue to consume a large share of her economic
Bank, for the purpose of stimulating the growth    resources. These programs, proceeding simultane-
of private industrial enterprise in Turkey. The    ously, impose a heavy strain on Turkey's internal
Bank's loan of $9 million is to finance the costs of    finances. The Government continues to show a
imports for this program.                       deficit in its budget and inflationary pressure
The Industrial Development Bank has now be-    persists.
gun operations. By June 30, 1951 it had made loans
fo see prjet amutn.o276,0   uks                   Turkey's current balance of payments situation
for seven projects amounting to 2,762,000 Turkish    ha  eetysonsm  ipoeet  eete
liras and had approved additional loans totaling  as recently shown some improvement. Neverthe-
T.L. 4,180,000, of which slightly over half would    ls, the import surplus remains substantial. Jts
be in foreign exchange to be requested from the    fnancig has been provided largely by external
Bank. So far, actual withdrawals from the Bank's   aid.
loan have been for small administrative expenses
incurred in foreign exchange.                   Yugoslavia
On June 4, 1951 the report of the Bank's com-    Fiscal $2.7 million 2-year 3% Loan of October
prehensive economic survey mission headed by Mr.    1950: 17, 1949 for timber equipment.
James M. Barker was presented to the President
and Prime Minister of the Turkish Republic by the  The loan was fully disbursed by December 31,
Vice President of the Bank. The report contains    1950. Repayment of principal, as of June 30, 1951,
an analysis of the Turkish economy and its rec-    amounted to slightly more than $2.2 million.
ommendations are designed to create the essential  In the Fifth Annual Report it was indicated that
framework within which the Turkish Government    discussions were being held in Washington be-
can work out a sound long-term economic develop-    tween representatives of the Bank and of the
ment program.                                   Yugoslav Government. Immediately after the An-
Three basic principles underlie the program pro-    nual Meeting of the Governors of the Bank last
posed by the mission: the development of agri-    year in Paris, the President of the Bank visited
culture as the essential base for further industriali-    Belgrade to reappraise Yugoslavia's development
zation; better utilization of the human and physical    and general economic policies. During this visit the
resources Turkey now has, in particular the train-    Government presented its investment program,
ing of technical, administrative and managerial    which subsequently was examined and discussed
personnel; and greater coordination of economic    by the Bank with a Government representative
activity by the Government in order to ensure that    sent to Washington for the purpose. As a result of
the limited resources available for development    these discussions a program of investment priori-
will be applied to the areas of greatest economic   ties was worked out which might form the basis
need. Turkey has already made great progress in    for financing by the Bank.
[ 31]



LATIN AMERICA
Brazil                                              do Sul, and was arranging to send a small mission
Fiscal $75 million 25-year 41/2 % Loan of Jan-   to Porto Alegre during the summer to examine the
1949: uary 27, 1949 to Brazilian Traction, Light  Commission's plans for expanding service in the
and Power Company, Ltd. for power and     region
telephone development program.
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 41/4% Loan of May       The Bank has followed with interest the recent
1950: 26, 1950 to Companhia Hidro Eletrica       establishment under United States Point IV legis-
do Sao Francisco for power development    eatiooaont  Brazi-U  S.aeconomIc  leveo-
project.                                  lation of a Joint Brazil-U. S. Economic Develop-
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 414% Loan of Jan-     ment Commission. It will be the task of the Com-
1951.' uary 18, 1951 to Brazilian Traction, Light  mission to work out an investment program  for
and Power Company, Ltd. for power de-     Brazil, to establish priorities within the program,
velopment program.                              '
In January 1951 the Bank increased by $15 mil-    and to assist in the technical preparation of proj-
l sloan of January 1949 to the Brazilian Trac-    ects for which priorities have been established.
lion its loan of January 1949 to the Brazilian Trac-    The Bank has indicated its willingness to work
tion, Light and Power Company, Limited. This was    closely with the Commission.
the second installment of a $90 million loan which
the Brazilian Congress, in 1948, authorized the       Brazil's economic situation improved during the
Minister of Finance to guarantee.                   past year. Both agricultural and industrial produc-
The first installment of the Traction loan has    tion increased. Development of powver, transporta-
been used for the expansion of hydroelectric power    tion facilities and domestic refining of imported
facilities in the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo areas    liquid fuels was accelerated and heavy industry, an
and of telephone facilities over a wider area in the  outgrowth of rising domestic production of steel,
central part of Brazil. A part of the first installment    expanded. The world price of coffee continued
was used to divert water from the Paraiba River    high, and following the outbreak of hostilities in
system to the Pirai River by means of a series of    Korea, there was an increase in most other export
pumps, dams, tunnels and canals. The second in-    prices and an urgent demand from  abroad for
staltment will enable the Company, at an earlier    greater production of strategic minerals. For the
date than was formerly planned, to take advantage   year 1950, foreign trade showed an over-all surplus
of large investments now being made to increase     of about $250 million compared with a deficit of
water availability for the Rio system. The Company  around $25 million in 1949. The improvement was
plans to spend a total of approximately $260 mil-    largely in dollars; it permitted the liquidation of
lion in its expansion program; the Bank's loans    former arrears on dollar remittances and the ac-
will provide the major part of the foreign-exchange  cumulation of substantial net dollar holdings at
requirements.                                       the end of the first quarter of 1951. Concurrently,
The projects of the Companhia Hidro Eletrica      by purchases from  the International Monetary
do Sao Francisco for the development of hydro-    Fund and by special arrangements with the Bank
electric power at Paulo Afonso on the Sao Francisco  of England, accumulated arrears in sterling were
River in northeast Brazil has been developing sat-    reduced. The improved dollar position and the rise
isfactorily during the year under review. Construc-    in world food and raw-material prices permitted a
tion schedules are being maintained and the work    considerable relaxation both of export licensing
is being carried forward efficiently in accordance  and of quantitative import restrictions which were
with the original plans.                            introduced in 1948, and lessened the resort to
The Bank has maintained contact with the Elec-    barter trade as a means of moving certain exports.
tric Energy Commission of the State of Rio Grande   Accelerated foreign debt amortization, particularly
[ 32 ]



of the coffee loans, has brought about a sizable    by the Bank's engineering staff.
reduction in the external bonded debt. At the same   As a result of an investigation sponsored by the
time, there was a material increase in registered  Government of a number of irrigation proposals,
foreign private investment.                       it was suggested  that underground water re-
These favorable developments were, however,    sources of the Rio Elqui Valley in the north cen-
attended by a sharp rise in the budgetary deficit   tral part of Chile might be sufficient to provide
and in the monetary supply. It is the announced    supplementary water for land already under irri-
policy of the Government to bring under effective    gation and to irrigate new lands. The Government
control this renewed tendency to inflation, which    requested the Bank to consider financing the first
otherwise would diminish the benefits Brazil has    of three steps in the development of these under-
derived from the rise in world prices of food and  ground water resources. Accordingly, the Bank
raw materials.                                     had a preliminary technical study made. This in-
dicates that there is substantial ground water; but
Chile                                             the volume and rate of recharge must be determined
Fiscal $13.5 million 20-year 41/2%  Loan of     before sizable investments are made. The Bank
1948.  March 25, 1948 to Corporaci6n de Fo-     and the Government are now considering further
mento de la Producci6n and Empresa
Nacional de Electricidad, S.A. (Endesa),  steps to be taken.
for power development program.             On the invitation of the Bank, representatives
$2.5 million 61½2 year 33/4¾   Loan of   of the Government spent several weeks during
March 25, 1948 to Corporaci6n de Fo-
mento de la Producci6n for importation   April-May of this year in Washington discussing
of agricultural machinery.               economic and technical problems involved in the
Bank representatives visited Chile last May to    preparation of a general development program.
review the progress of the projects being financed   At the request of the Government, the Bank and
by the Bank under the two loans for agricultural    the Food and Agriculture Organization are spon-
equipment and for hydroelectric development and    soring a joint group for the study of agricultural
incidental irrigation. Practically all of the agricul-    development in Chile. This group, which arrived
tural equipment had, as contemplated in the proj-    in Chile at the end of May 1951, has been working
ect, been sold to farmers. Work on the hydroelec-    in close collaboration with the Government and
tric projects, including the first two units for the    with other technical experts who have been study-
Los Cipreses plant, was on the whole proceeding    ing various agricultural problems under the aus-
satisfactorily.                                    pices of FAO and the Institute of Inter-American
The President of the Bank took advantage of    Affairs. The group is expected to return to Wash-
his visit to Santiago in March to attend the meet-   ington in September.
ing of the Economic and Social Council of the        The problem of inflation remained still unre-
United Nations to discuss development problems    solved in mid-1951. Both the money supply and the
wi-th the President of Chile.                      cost of living rose about 17% during 1950, giving
As a result of conversations between the Bank    rise to labor unrest and to demands for compensa-
and representatives of Corporaci6n de Fomento de    tory wage increases. Wage raises granted to Gov-
la Producci6n early in 1951, the Bank had ex-    ernment employees during the year were the prin-
pressed an interest in possible loans to re-equip    cipal cause of the fiscal deficit. Inflationary pres-
two privately owned coal mines and to add a third    sures were rendered more acute by a reduction of
generating unit ro the Los Cipreses hydroelectric    agricultural output due to serious drought in 1950
plant now under construction by Endesa. The tech-    and by the fact that total manufacturing output
nical aspects of these projects are now being studied  did not expand. There was, however, encouraging
[ 33 ]



growth in some fields. Electric power production    to expand the production of cotton, thereby reduc-
rose to a point that permitted rationing to be    ing the need for imported cotton for the textile
eased. Output from the Huachipato steel mill grew   industry. In the Department of Tolima there is
steadily and some steel products were exported.     increased production of rice and of sesame, which
The Chilean balance of payments improved dur-    is important in supplying much-needed fats and
ing 1950, as a result mainly of reduction of im-    oils. In the fertile Cauca Valley, loan-financed
ports. Export values were slightly lower than in    equipment is being used in the production of sugar
1949, despite an increase in copper prices in the   cane, rice, beans and maize; and on the plain of
latter part of 1950. The improvement continued      Bogota the cultivation of potatoes, wheat and veg-
in the first half of 1951. An agreement was reached  etables is aided by the increase in farm mechaniza-
with the United States Government regarding an    tion.
increase in the export price of Chilean copper and    The Fifth Annual Report mentioned loans un-
there are good prospects for expansion of output    der consideration for financing part of the foreign-
of both copper and nitrate.                         exchange costs of three new hydroelectric proj-
ects, each of which would supply power to an
Colombia                                           important Colombian city. Loans have now been
Fiscal $5 million 7-year 31/2½o Loan of Au-      made for two of these projects, while the third,
1950: gust 19, 1949 to Caja de Credito Agrario,  to provide additional electric power to the city of
Industrial y Minero for importation of    Bucaramanga in northeastern Colombia, is stil
agricultural machinery.                    ucongatn  pern  Combta, of stis-
Fijcal $3.5 million 20-year 4%c Loan of No-      under consideration pending completion of satis-
1951: vember 2. 1950 to Central Hidroelectrica   factory arrangements for marketing the electric
dcl Rio Anchicayi, Limitada, for power    power that would be generated.
development project.                                           g
$2.6 million 20-year 4%o Loan of De-        The loan of $3.5 million made in November
cember 28, 1950 to Central Hidroel6c-     1950 to the Central Hidroelectrica del Rio An-
trica de Caldas, Limitada, for power de-  chicaya, Limitada was to cover part of the foreign-
velopment project.
$16.5 million 10-year 3 %%  Loan of       exchange costs of a hydroelectric project to sere
April 10, 1951 for highway construction   the city of Cali, one of the four major industrial
and rehabilitation.                       centers of Colombia. Power from this installation
Disbursement of the loan for the purchase of    will also assist the economic development of the
agricultural machinery was completed on April    Cauca Valley, a rich agricultural region with poten-
1, 1951 and an undisbursed balance of some          tial for industrial development.
$75,000 was cancelled. Representatives of the Bank    The loan of $2.6 million made in December
visited Colombia early in 1950 and their examina-   1950 to the Central Hidroel6ctrica de Caldas, Lim-
nion indicated that distribution of loan-financed   itada was to cover the major part of the foreign-
machinery was progressing satisfactorily. The ma-    exchange costs of a plant that will supply electric
chinery appeared to be suitably employed and ade-    power to the city of Manizales, and help in the
quately maintained. While it is too early to assess    development of the Department of Caldas, an im-
the full results of the loan, agricultural production  portant agricultural area of the countrv.
has already benefited in those areas where mech-      The report of the Bank-sponsored comprehen-
anization has been introduced. Most of the equip-    sive survey mission referred to in the Fifth Annual
ment imported under the loan is used in four main   Report was transmitted to the Government of
areas well suited to mechanized farming. In the     Colombia on July 27, 1950. Shortly thereafter the
Sinu River area, formerly devoted largely to cattle,    Government appointed a non-governmental and
the machinery imported under the loan is helping    non-partisan Economic Development Committee
[ 34 ]



to assist the Government in formulating an over-    maintenance of repair shops; and the training of
all development program  based on the report    Colombian personnel in the repair and use of the
and to. recommend steps to be taken to assure    equipment and in highway maintenance.
the effective execution of the program. One        Recently the main sectors of the Colombian
member of the Bank's staff and two consultants    economy have been developing satisfactorily. Both
who had been members of the mission returned to    agricultural and industrial production are now at a
Colombia as advisers to the Committee. The Com-    relatively high level. Receipts from coffee exports,
mittee has submitted a number of recommenda-    the chief source of Colombia's foreign-exchange
tions which were adopted by the Government    income, were higher in 1950 than in 1949, and
and translated into positive action. Inflation was    have been at a high level in 1951. Since October
checked, new  regulations relaxing foreign-ex-    1950 inflation has been checked and the cost of
change controls were enacted, and the highway    living index has steadied. The fiscal position of
program imentioned below was adopted. The Gov-    the Government has improved. In March 1951,
ernment also reorganized the Banco de la Repuiblica    restrictions on imports were reduced and the Gov-
and announced a more liberal policy regarding the    ernment set a new exchange rate for the peso.
import and export of capital. Upon completion of
its work, the Committee will submit plans for a    Costa Rica
comprehensive development program to the Gov-      A Bank mission will visit Costa Rica in Septem-
ernment. In the meantime, a number of United    ber to study the general economic situation and to
Nations and United States experts have been in-    examine the Government's development plans.
vited to render special assistance in various fields
and are now working in Colombia.                 Cuba
Although the Bank had intended to await the      A Bank mission under the leadership of Mr.
completion of the over-all program before deter-    Arank AmisTsion     rghed ladersipofMr
.   Francis Adams Truslowr, organized at the request
mining in what direction its assistance would be    of the Government, went to Cuba at the end of
most effective, it decided to support immediately    July 1950. The composition and objectives of the
a three-year highway rehabilitation program. Both    mission were described in last year's Annual Re-
the Econtomic Development Committee and the    port. Briefly, the purpose of the mission was to
Government felt tlhat, in view of the fact that the maeacprhniesvyoftecnmyn
make a comprehensive survey of the economy in
condition of Colombia's highways was seriously    order to determine its full potentialities, and to
hampering the country's economic development,    m     s
immediate action should be taken to rehabilitate    maeseii.rpsl fo  fuur dvlopet
immeiat acionshold  e tkento ehailiate The mission spent 11 weeks In Cuba and traveled
the existing trunk highway system. The Bank also
felt that a loan to finance this project would be    extensively throughout the country.
On January 10, 1951 the Bank and the Govern-
justified, sInce It would unquestionably be an im-    ment made public a report entitled "Comment and
portant part of any broad program. Accordingly, a    Recommendations of the Cuban Mission with Re-
loan of $16.5 million was made by the Bank in    spect to the Public Service Railways of Cuba."
April 1951 to finance the foreign-exchange cost of    Because of the urgency of the railway situation,
the higlhway work, to be done under contract by    this report was submitted prior to the completion
cxperienced firms. The project will consist of the    of the other sections of the mission's over-all re-
construction of approximately 155 kilometers of    port. It was recommended that the United Railways
ne,w liihglvays to provide connecting links in the    of Havana and the Consolidated Railroads of Cuba,
trunk system: the rehabilitation of 2,906 kilometers    which constitute practically all of the public serv-
of existing trunk highways; the establishment and    ice railways, be combined into a new company and
[ 35 ]



operated as a single railway system; that Cuban     allowed to increase in the same proportion as
sugar companies acquire a substantial minority in-    foreign-exchange reserves. Partly as a result of a
terest and participation in the control of the new  new coffee export tax, the budget continues to be
railway company; and that the Government sup-    balanced.
port the reorganization and provide such reason-
able assurances as would permit the new company     Guatemala
to carry out an appropriate program of rehabilita-    An economic survey mission, headed by Dr.
tion and to operate on a self-sustaining basis under    George E. Britnell, visited Guatemala between
private management.                                 June and August 1950 to study the country's re-
As of June 30, 1951 the full report was nearing   sources and potentialities and to make recommen-
completion, and was scheduled for presentation to    dations as to its further development. The mission
the Government in August.                           consisted of six members whose fields of specializa-
tion included agriculture, industry, mining, trans-
Ecuador                                             portation, power and economics. This group was
The President of Ecuador, during his visit to the  assisted in the field by a number of additional
United States in June 1951, discussed Ecuador's    specialists for varying periods of time. The report
development plans informally with the Bank. A       of the mission was completed in June 1951 and
B3ank mission will visit the country later this year    was to be presented to the Government early in
to examine projects under consideration.            July.
The general program proposed by the mission
El Salvador                                         places primary emphasis on the improvement of
Fiscail $12.5 million 25-year 4V414%1c, Loan of  agricultural productivity, particularly in coffee and
1950.: December 14, 1949 to Comisi6n Ejecutiva  low-cost food crops, and the expansion of trans-
Hidroelktrica del Rio Lempa for power     portation facilities, especially highways. Improve-
development project.                      ment in these two sectors would lay the foundation
In the Bank's Fifth Annual Report, details were    for the gradual diversification of the economy and
given of the loan for the development of hydro-    the expansion of manufacturing industries.
electric power on the Lempa River. Work was           In the opinion of the mission, the opening up of
started by the contractor in October 1950, and since    the Pacific coastal plains to mechanized agriculture
tihat date has been proceeding normaLly.            offers the greatest possibilities for achieving a rapid
A local bond issue in the amount of 13,100,000    and substantial increase in foodstuffs at reduced
colones ($5.24 million) was successfully floated in    prices. The mission points out, however, that be-
order to meet the local-currency costs of the proj-    fore further development of this area can be suc-
ect. Apart from some movement from commercial    cessfully undertaken a vigorous effort will be nec-
banks to the public, these bonds have been mainly    essary to eliminate the malarial mosquito. The
rcetained by the original subscribers as investments,    importance of improvements in marketing, storage
aud tlhere has been little trading in them.         and credit facilities is also stressed in the report.
The economic situation of El Salvador remains    The mission urges an all-out effort to increase the
s.itisfactory. The high price of coffee, the principal    production of coffee, Guatemala's most important
exportt has contributed to a steady increase of for-    export and the potential source of most of the
eltcn-cxclange reserves. Other exports, such as    funds for financing future development needs, and
cw)tton, sesame and precious metals, have also in-    reorganization of the Fincas Nacionales (farms
creased, wlile imports have not risen to the same   owned or controlled by the Government), to in-
exrent. The internal money supply has not been      crease their production and reduce their costs.
[ 36]



The inadequacy of the transportation system is    by the Mexican Government for a moderate-sized
probably the greatest single barrier to Guatemala's    loan to finance small and medium-scale projects
economic development, the mission found. As a    unldertaken by private enterprises. In order to carry
first step toward relieving this situation, it recom-    out this proposal, it was necessary to devise a
mends the adoption of a basic national plan for the  means whereby foreign credits, which had hitherto
development and maintenance of highways. The       been granted almost entirely to finance major de-
report also suggests the expansion of domestic    velopment projects carried out by Government or
airlines to serve isolated areas and the establish-    Government-sponsored enterprises, could be made
ment of a non-political public utilities commission  available for the smaller projects of private enter-
to regulate rates and services for all forms of    prise.
transport.                                           In the summer of 1950 conversations were held
Other sections of the report deal with industry,    between the Bank and Mexican private banks and
mining, telecommunications and power, public       Government officials to work out some method of
policies affecting development, the financial re-    financing which would not impose on the Bank the
sources available to Guatemala for carrying Out its    burden of screening a number of relatively small
development program, and finally, three alternative    loan applications. The creation of an entirely new
programs of public investment.                     agency seemed superfluous in view of the existence
of a well-developed private banking system. Con-
Honduras                                           sequently, a consortium was organized, by means
of which a number of commercial banks and Na-
As mentioned in the Fifth Annual Report, the   cional Financiera, a government financial agency,
Bank at the request of the Honduran Government    a          t         t
assigned a member of its economic staff for a
period of eight months to assist in the organiza-    for financing private enterprises.
tion of a new Development Bank and in the formu-     The proposal finally took shape on October 16,
lation of its credit and development policies. The  1950, in the Consortium  Agreement, signed by
assignment ended in December 1950, and the De-    eight of the principal commercial banks of Mexico
velopment Bank is now in operation.                and by Nacional Financiera. On October 18, 1950
the Bank entered into an agreement with the nine
Mexko                                              Consortium members, extending to them a line of
credit of $10 million. A covering guarantee agree-
Fiscal $24.1 million 25-year 41/2 % Loan of Jan-  ment was signed with the Government of Mexico.
1949. uary 6, 1949 to Cornisi6n Federal de
Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for  The commercial banks participating in the Con-
power development.                       sortium  are: Banco Nacional de M6xico, S.A.,
$10 million 1-year 41/2%  Loan of Jan-   Banco de Comercio, S.A., Banco Internacional,
uary 6, 1949 to Comisi6n Federal de
ur6, 1949 to Con6  Feea de               S.A., 13anco de Londres y M6xico, S.A., Banco
Electricidad and Nacional Financiera for                                   ,
power development. (Refunded)            Mexicano, S.A., all in Mexico City; and Banco
Fiscal $26 million 25-year 41/2 % Loan of April  Mercantil de Monterrey, S.A., and Banco Indus-
1950: 28, 1950 to Mexican Light and Power       tria! de Monterrey, S.A., both in Monterrey, and
Company, Ltd., for power development.    Banco Comercial Mexicano, S.A., in Chihuahua.
Fiscal $10 million (maturity date to be deter-    Applications by Mexican firms for specific loans
1951: mined) 31 %  Loan of October 18,
1950 to a Consortium of Eight Mexican    under the line of credit must be sponsored by one
Banks and Nacional Financiera for finan-  cr more of the members of the Consortium. They
cial assistance to small enterprises,    are then scrutinized by the Nacional Financiera,
The Fifth Annual Report referred to a proposal    which, if it approves, submits the applications to
[ 37 1



the Bank. If the Bank approves a project, it makes    Nicaragua
a loan to such members of the Consortium as wish     F.cal $3.5 million 10-year 41/8% Loan of June
to participate, and they re-lend the proceeds to the  1951 . 7, 1951 for highway construction.
applicant. Loans will normally range from $25,000          $1.2 million 7-year 4%  Loan of June
to $1 million, and their term will not as a rule           7, 1951 to the Banco Nacional de Nic-
exceed five years.                                         aragua for importation of agricultural
machinery.
By this mechanism the Bank is able to delegate    In 'November 1950 the Government of Nic-
to members of the Consortium the greater part of    aragua applied to the Bank for loans for farm-
the detailed screening of numerous small-scale    machinery, road-building and grain-storage proj-
projects. At the same time, the Bank retains the  ect5. Representatives of the Bank had visited
power to ensure that the loans conform to its gen-    Nicara.gua in 1949 and made a preliminary survey
eral standards and objectives,                    of the country's development possibilities. 117he
Mexico today is enjoying highly prosperous con-    Bank sent a second mission to Nicaragua in Tanu-
ditions. The expansion of both agricultural and   arv 1951 to study the proposed projects, and ar-
industrial production which followed the stabili-    ranged for the services of an expert from the Food
zation of the peso in 1949, has now received the  and Agriculture Organization to study the coun-
further stimulus of the urgent world demand for    try's grain-storage program. In June, the Bank
raw materials. The terms of trade have accordingly  made two loans, one to the Government for high-
been moving in Mexico's favor; imports have ex-    way construction, and the other to the Banco
panded. Net receipts from tourism, an increasingly  Nacional for the importation of agricultural ma-
important source of Mexico's earnings of foreign  chinerv.
exchange, rose steadily throughout 1950. In ad-     The loan for highway constuction will finance
dition, the exchange reserves of the country nave    the import of equipment and materials for build-
been considerably augmented through the inflow    irng eighit roads. The roads will total 622 kilometers
of short-term capital from abroad.                in length, will be asphalt-paved to permit year-
The Government has continued to carry out an    round traffic, and should be completed in 31,4
active program of economic development. Over    years. The total cost of the project is estimared
17%  of the 1950 budget, a total of 483 million   at about $5 million.
pesos, was devoted to the development of internal   Lack of commiiunications has been one of the most
transportation systems. Public investments in irri-    serious obstacles to the development of Nicaragua.
gation, electric power and petroleum  have also   Roads are urgently needed, both to provide access
continued on a high level. Nevertheless, a budget-    ro hi-.herto untouched areas of rich agricultural
ary surplus was realized in 1950.                 land and to link the major centers of production,
The general expansion of economic activity, and  consu-napuon and export.
in particular the high level of export prices, has  The pet consists of three separate groups of
caused a steep rise in domestic prices. The index    roads, the Northern, the East-West and the West-
of wholesale prices has risen 43% since 1949. Re-    ern, which will complement the existing trunk
cently, however, the Government has adopted a    road.s and the Inter-American Highway. Comple-
number of measures designed to check the growing  ion of the NTorthern group should yield substan-
inflation. In March 1951 the Executive was granted    tial returns by opening up new land in the rich
wide powers to control production, consumption,    coffee-producing region around Matagalpa. The
distribution and prices, and in May a new decree    East-West group will serve a fertile rural area; and
was passed limiting the total amount of credits to    by facilitating the marketing and exporting of
be issued by commercial banks.                    cereals, vegetables, cotton and livestock, it should
r38]



reduce the wastage now prevalent in this area. Of    of bank credit, and high export prices, Nicaragua
the Western group, the most important highway    has been experiencing a severe inflation. At the
will link Managua, the capital, with Le6n, the sec-    beginning of 1951, the money supply was 17%
ond largest city. These two cities are now connected    above that of the previous year and almost 70%
only by rail. In addition to stimulating commerce,    higher than at the end of 1945. However, firm
the new road should open up a rich agricultural    measures have been adopted by the Government
area, suitable for mechanized farming and capa-   to check this situation. In 1950 a small budget sur-
ble of producing a wide variety of crops.       plus was realized for the first time in several years
The agricultural loan will provide the foreign    and the budget for 1951 is expected to be in
exchange required for the purchase and importa-    balance.
tion of agricultural machinery and spare parts. The
machinery, which will range from small tractors to    Panama
heavy land-clearing equipment, will be imported   In April 1951 the Government of Panama re-
through normal channels of trade and will be sold    quested the Bank to organize a general survey mis-
to farmers who will have received credits from the    sion to study development possibilities. The Bank
Banco Nacional. A training program is being un-    suggested that a small staff mission should make a
dertaken and arrangements are being made to pro-    preliminary survey which would indicate in what
vide facilities for the repair and maintenance of    directions more specialized studies would be most
the equipment.                                  fruitful. This Bank mission will visit Panama in
In January of this year, the Government asked    the second half of 1951.
the Bank for assistance in planning and carrying
out various phases of a development program. The    Paraguay
Bank indicated its willingness to send a special  A Bank mission will visit Paraguay this summer
representative who, assisted by an engineer, would    to study plans for agricultural development and
remain in Nicaragua for a period of eight months    road construction.
to a year to assist in formulating and executing
a general economic program. In addition, technical    Peru
experts will visit Nicaragua as needed. The Bank's  Last year's Annual Report indicated that Peru
special representative was to arrive in Nicaragua    had a number of development projects under con-
early in July.                                  sideration which might be suitable for financing.
Nicaragua today is in a more favorable eco-    Following a brief visit to Peru by the President of
nomic situation than for many years past. With the    the Bank in March, a Bank mission examined the
exception of 1949, when the coffee crop was un-    merits and discussed the preparation of these proj-
usually poor, exports have expanded steadily in    ects. Those found to be most suitable for Bank
recent years, and in 1950 amounted to $26.6 mil-   consideration are projects for irrigation, highway
lion, as against only $6.9 million in 1945. Between    construction and maintenance, agricultural machin-
50 and 60%  of Nicaragua's exports are sold to    ery, equipment for the Port of Callao, and devel-
the United States, and substantially all the rest is    opment of anthracite in the Santa Valley. Members
sold for dollars or other convertible currencies.    of the mission completed their work by mid-June
With improvement in transportation and methods    and their findings as well as-general aspects of the
of production, there are good prospects for in-    country's position, are currently under considera-
creased exports of coffee and cotton, and of    tion by the Bank.
bananas, previously low on account of crop disease.  Peru's balance of payments has continued to
As a result of budgetary deficits, the expansion    improve during the past year, making possible
[39]



removal of import restrictions. The Government is    power and for the expansion of telephone services
expected to operate with a balanced budget. On    which are operated by U.T.E.
the whole, the prospects are good for increased     At the request of the Government, a joint Bank-
production and continued economic development,    FAO technical mission was in Uruguay from Octo-
provided that the renewed inflationary pressures,    ber to December 1950 to make a survey of the
which have arisen mainly because of foreign-ex-    country's agricultural problems and requirements,
change inflow, are restrained.                    and to formulate recommendations for increas-
ing and improving production. The mission was
Surinam                                          headed by Sir Maurice Hutton, and included spe-
The Bank has agreed to organize a mission to    cialists in production, marketing, animal husban-
review and makie recommendations concering a    dry, pasture and forage, dairying, soils and fer-
revlew~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~iizr fores   extesio servicesalon            anderln  a ricu.l'ra
provisional program which has been formulated to    tlizers, forestry, extension services and agricultural
engineering. The mission's report was scheduled
for transmittal to the Uruguayan Government in
Uruguay                                          July.
Uruguay's balance of payments position im-
Fisral $33 million 24-year 4¼4 % Loan of Au-  proved substantially during the past year. Both
1951: gust 25, 1950 to Administraci6n General   pove   ant           the     past ear. Bot
de las Usinas El&tricas y los Tel6fonos  the volume and the unit price of wool exports in-
del Estado for power and telephone de-  creased, resulting in considerably higher dollar
velopment program.                      earmings on trading account. At the same time
The loan to Administraci6n Genera I de las Usinas    there has been a relatively large movement of flight
Electricas y los Telefonos del Estado (U.T.E.), an    capital into Uruguay which has also contributed
autonomous government agency, signed on August   to a growth of exchange holdings, although intro-
25, 1950, was ratified on May 19, 1951 by the    ducing a possible element of future instability.
Uruguayan Parliament and became effective ten      The authorities have not succeeded fully in con-
days later. As a result of the nationwide elections    trolling the inflationary pressures which were in-
held last November, a new Parliament took office    creased by the abnormal exchange inflow and by
on February 15 of this year and active considera-    an unbalanced budget. The 1950 budget showed a
tion of the agreements began in March.           deficit amounting to 7%  of expenditures, arising
The proceeds of this loan are being used to cover    mainly from increase of civil service salaries. The
the foreign-exchange cost of increasing Uruguay's    Government has, however, shown itself aware of
facilities for generating and distributing electric   the dangers of the situation.
[40]



FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
AND RESOURCES
EARNINGS, RESERVES, REPAYMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Reflecting the growth in the volume of loans    pal payments of $1.2 million to investors holding
outstanding, the earnings of the Bank for the    the Guaranteed Serial Notes of four Netherlands
fiscal year showed a substantial increase over the    shipping companies which were sold by the Bank
earnings in 1949-50. Net income after all deduc-    in 1948-49 with its unconditional guarantee.
tions, including interest and other bond expenses   Total disbursements made on the Bank's loans to
and the transfer of loan commissions to the Special    June 30, 1951 amounted to the equivalent of
Reserve, was $15,156,947, which compares with a    $691.7 million, of which a total of $77.6 million
net of $13,698,398 for the fiscal year ended June    was made in the last fiscal year. Of total funds dis-
30, 1950. Gross income from all sources amounted  bursed, $666.6 million was repayable in United
to $34,591,085. Of this, $28,456,318 represented  States dollars and the equivalent of $25.1 million
income from  interest, commissions and other    was repayable in Canadian dollars, Belgian
charges on loans; and $6,116,319 was income from  francs, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire,
investment.                                       pounds sterling and Swiss francs. Of the $77.6
In accordance with a decision of the Executive    million disbursed during the year, $53.3 million
Directors and the Board of Governors all net in-    (68.6%) was spent in the United States and $24.3
come for the entire period of the Bank's operations    million (31.4%) in other countries.
has been placed in a general reserve against losses  The geographical distribution of total expendi-
on loans and guarantees, and on June 30, 1951    tures financed by the Bank from the start of its
this reserve was $42,155,217.                     operations in 1946 to June L>51 is shown below:
Loan commissions for the year totaled
$6,388,543, and as required by the Articles of                                      Amount
Agreement were credited to the Special Reserve       Area of Expenditure        Mill(ors of U S $)
for meeting the Bank's obligations. That reserve
United  States  ... .................... $505.6
amounted to $20,125,748 on June 30, 1951. Total     Europe .........................   78.2
reserves of the Bank on that date aggregated         Latin America ........  ............  57.5
$62,280,965.                          ~~~~~~~~~~~Canada ...... ........45.5
$62,280,965.                                        Near East ....... .................  2.5
Repayments of loan principal due during the year  Africa ............................  2.2
were all received on schedule and amounted to        Far East ...               >          .2
$5,549,135. This amount does not include princi-      Total ...$............ $691.7
[41]



FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
Funds available to the Bank for lending on June    States, tie equivalent of $2 rnillion from Belgium,
30, 1951, in terms of United States dollars, are     $16%6 million from Canada, $125,000 from Den-
summarized below:                                    mark, $1.3 million from France, $120,000 from
Guatemala, $100,000 from Italy, $2 million from
2%  paid-in portion of sub-                      Mexico, $126,oiao from Paraguay and $2.9 million
scriptions of all members $ 163,715,000
18% portion of subscription of                    from the United  ngdom.
the United States ......    571,500,000        Many of the other member countries have ex-
18%  prin of subscriptions
mad poravilo    by other                     pressed a willingness to consider releases of their
members  .     ........    26,221,000         18%  funds at such time as borrowing countries
need gcods which can be purchased with their
Total available Capital
Subscriptions .........    760,896,000        currencies. The following  countries, including
Net available funds resulting                     some who already have made releases as mentioned
from operations            43,000,000        above, have agreed, subject to further consultation
Net proceeds of sale of bonds           -
excluding premium  and                       in eadt particular case, to the use of all or part of
discount .............    324,588,000        their 13%7, currency for loans:
Gross Total Available Funds $1,128,484,000            Colombia                Netherlands
Total loans                                             Costa Rica              Norway
commited $1,113,525,000                             Denmark                 Pakistan
Fzss cancella- d ,ri2land                                                   Peru
tions, loans                                        Firance                 Philippines
sold and                                            Gr -ece                 Syina
srincipal                                           Icehand                 South Africa
repayments                                          india                  Thailand
available                                           lady                   Uaited Kingdom
for re-                                             Lelyon                 Yugoslavia
lending  ..   48,741,000   1,064,784,000         Currency releases are of greater or less useful-
Excess of Available Funds                       ness to the Bank according to their degree of con-
over Net Loan Commit-                        vertibilivy or to the ability of the releasing coun-
ments .............  $  63,700,000           tries to export goods needed for development. It
Undisbursed Balance of Loans.    404,085,000       is ner possible, however, to overstress the long-run
Excess of Available Funds                       importance of cooperation by member nations in
over Net Loan  Disburse-                     reICasing their capital subscriptions to add to the
lendai e resources of the Bank. Such action will
This table shows only those funds which have       enabfe he Bank to meet a larger proportion of the
been utilized by the Bank or may be utilized with-    capital  t-quirements of many members whose
out further approval of members. These funds in-    ability tU asu ne United States dollar indebtedness
clude the entire 187o portion of the subscriptions    is limited, and whose requirements therefore must
of Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras and the United      be met by loans in other currencies.
SALES OF SECURITIES
During the year, the Bank sold new issues of its    to European, Canadian and American investors.
direct obligations in the United States and Great       Tere was evidence of a broadening of the
Britain, and was preparing for an issue in Switzer-   marker fcr the Bank's securities in the United
land. For the first time it sold without its gnar-    States. TMe successful flotation of the sterling
antee bonds received from certain of its borrowers,    issue   t the London market, together with the sub-
[42 ]



stantial quantities of the Bank's dollar bonds pur-    banking ffnnAs and managed jointly by The Chase
chased outside the United States, shows the prog-    National Bank, Thbe First Boston Corp., C. T. De-
ress that has been achieved in developing markets    vine & Co., and Salomon Bros. & Hutzler. rne
for the Bank's bonds in the territories of other    function c. this group wras to consult and advise
member countries.                                  the Bank on rhe financing, arrange for group sales
The Bank does not consider such sales a substi-   to large Lni -ioal invesrors and to offer tit se-
tute for releases of member countries' 18%, cur-    curities fcr  cupoon to a Selling Group of 421
rencies. The Bank does consider sales of its bonds    members. A trotal of approximately $26 million
in the traditional financial centers a means of de-    principal amount of securities was allotted as group
veloping potential sources of additional funds for    sales to life insurance companies in the United
lending. Where conditions are favorable, there are  States and Canada, pension and trust funds, sav-
obvious long-term advantages in establishing the    ings banks and European financial institutions.
Bank's credit in the financial markets and in fa-    The balance of the issue was allotted to 408 selling
miliarizing local investors with its securities -  group menrbers and was widely distributed both
even before all 18%  funds are released, Such      geographicaiNy and as .o qpe of investor,
operations are important steps in building future    The Bank concauded its first financing in a mem-
markets, which should become increasingly useful    ber nation other than the United States when it
as sources of investment funds.                    sold an issue or £5 mll'ion 3Y2 % stock i966/76. . to
Developments of far-reaching importance oc-    a London syndicate of banking firms composed of
curred in the United States bond market during the  Baring Brothers & Co., Ltd.; Hambros Bank, Ltd.
past fiscal year as the monetary authorities sought    Lazard Brothers & Co., Ltd.; Morgan Grenfelh 
to reduce inflationary pressures through measures   C(o., Lt .  . dI . AR o thschild & Sons; and J. Henr
designed to curtail the expansion of credit. The   Schroder & Co. The securities were publicly of-
resultant increase in interest rates in the United  fered in the Ln~:oon, market beginning May 23,
States appeared to accelerate and in some cases to    1951, anc rhe recepstion of the issue was h9ighy
initiate a trend toward higher rates in other finan-    favorable.
cial centers. Following the sale of its dollar bond  At rhe cloae ef tfi ca. year arrangements had
issue at the end of February, the Bank found these    been corn'`tl. :l with a S -iss banking syndicate
conditions reflected in higher interest rates in the    for the r b'ilc ofl1ering of the Bank's bonds ir
United Kingdom  and Switzerland. Despite the       Switzerlard, n h e made early iin July. The issue,
general decline of bond values, the market action  of 12-year ,-/2%  bonds, was to be in the amount
of the Bank's issues in the United States has been  of 5°  S, "n Swiss Efrancs, equivalent to approxi-
favorable compared with other highly rated bonds,    mately       i 6 mi1ior. On two previous occasions
and confirms that the obligations are now consid-    the B         borawed in the Swiss martet
ered seasoned securities and are generally in strong    through 41,e asrivate sale of its bonds.
investrnent hands.
New Issues of the Bank's Bonds                     Sales oS' D5 .r  r, !. Te Bank's Portfolio
On February 28, 1951 the Bank offered in the       The Bank soid from its portfolio, with its un-
United States a new issue of $50 million 3%o bonds    conditional guarantee, $549,000 principal amount
of 1951 due 1976. It was well received by investors    of bonds of Corporacion de Fomento de la Pro-
in the United States, Canada and Europe. A new     ducci6n (Chile). Tne securities were purchased by
method of distribution was employed. A Sponsor-    a large United &a-.es motrmercial bank. Another
ing Group was formed, composed of 32 leading       block of 3242,coo, o' these Chilean bonds was
United States commercial banks and investment    scheduled for sal e       in luly.
[43 J



The Barnk also sod -without its guarantee -     During the past fiscal year, the Bank's position
the equivalent of $4.5 million short-maturity bonds    has been clarified in connection with borrowing
of the Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Com-    operations and other activities in Switzerland,
parny, Limited, Cr6dit National (France), Suo-    which is not a member of the Bank. Negotiations
men Pankki (Finland), Herstelbank (Nether-    between -he Swiss Federal Council and the Bank
lands), Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, and King-    resulted in an agreement, signed in Berne on June
dom  of the Netherlands. The securities were    29, which recognizes the international personality
purchased by American, Canadian and European    and legal capacity of the Bank and grants it facil-
investors. The transfer of those investments from  ities which in part correspond to those which it
the Bank's portfolio to private investors and the    enjoys in the territories of its members. The agree-
loan of $10 million granted to the Union of South    ment will be submitted to the Swiss Federal Chain-
Africa by American commercial banks simul-    bers for ratfication.
taneously with the loan from the Bank, are de-    The £5 million sterling issue, sold to a London
velopinelnts of considerable importance as they    syndicate of banking firms and publicly offered in
demonstrate methods by which the Bank can help    the London market, was made possible by the ap-
promote private foreign investment.             proval of the United Kingdom Government as
required1 under the Bank's Articles of Agreement.
3 oaJening Market for the Bank's Bonds            The French Government authorized the listing
Substantial investments in the Bank's United    on the Paris Bourse of the Bank's twenty-five year
States dollar bonds were made by non-United      3% bonds due 1972 and the twenty-five year bonids
States investors during the last year. Purchases of    of 1951 due 1976. French foreign-exchange regu-
bonds are known to have been made in Canada,    lations permit residents of France to purchase, in
-at.n America, Europe, Asia and Africa. It is   the United States, International Bank bonds with
estimated that such holdings exceed $39 million,    dollars acquired through the sale in the United
includincg suibstantial amounts purchased by the    States of other securities. The Bank's bonds so ac-
central banking institutions of ten member nations.    quired are officially traded on the Paris Bourse and
including the S-wviss franc and sterling issues, the    may be purchased directly against French francs.
aggregate amount ot the Bank's direct and guaran-  In Mi[arch 1951 the Colombian Government
teed indebtedness held by non-United States in-    issued a decree authorizing all national banks in
vestors exceeds $60c million.                    Colombia to invest up to 10% of their capital and
This development may in large part be attributed    reserves in International Bank bonds or in Colom-
to the cooperation of various countries in enacting    bian bonds issued under loan agreements with the
legislation or issuing rulings or decrees to facilitate    Bank. Tlhe same decree outlines a procedure
the introduction of the Bank's obligations in their    wherebv Colombian branches of foreign banks can
capital markets. Several such actions are described    increase their capital and reserves by investing in
in the Fifth Annual Report of the Bank.          such bonds.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND REPORTS
Appendices A through G provide a balance    statement of loans up to the end of the fiscal year,
sheet showing the financial position of the Bank    an opinion of the auditor, and other schedules
as of June 30, 1951, a comparative statement of    giving details about the assets and the capital struc-
income and expenses for the fiscal years ended    ture of the Bank.
June 30, 1950 and June 30, 1951, a complete
F 44 I



MANAGEMENT AND CRGANIZATION
Changes in Personnel                            ment in short supply as a result of the emergency
Mr. William A. B. Ihiff, since February 5, 1948    situaation.
the Loan Director of he lBank, was appointed       As of June 30, 1951 the staff of the Bank con-
theLoa  Drecor  f he  ank ws apoite      sisted of 424 mem.bers rrom 30 countries.
Assistant to the President on April 3, 1951. In the
absence of the President and Vice President, Mr.    Staff Retirement Plan
Ilif acts as Senior Executive Officer of the Bank.
Mr. A. S. G. Hoar, who had been Assistant Di-      The monsulting actuary to the staff retirement
rector of the Loan Department since October 1,    plan of the Bank made his second annual valua-
1946, succeeded Mr. Iliff as Loan Director.     tion as of December 31, 1950, and recommended
Mr. William L. Ayers, Director of Public Rela-    that the current ,rate of contribution by the Bank,
tions since November 1, 1949, suffered a heart    12.26%o of pavroll should be continued. During
attack while en route to the Bank's Firth Annual    the past year the plan was amended to provide
Meeting at Paris. His death shortly thereafter was    certain retirement rights after three full years of
a major loss to the Bank. Mr. Harold N. Graves,   eligible service, rather than five years as required
Jr., of the Public Relations staff, was appointed a  heretofore. Also during 1950 provision was made
succeed him on November 20, 1950.               for coverinrg under the plan those staff mem-
Mr. Norman M. Tucker resigned as Director of    bers who are granted leave of absence from the
Marketing on October 31, 1950 to accept the posi-    Bank for emergeny civilian or military service.
tion of General Manager of the Industrial Devel-
opment Bank of Turkey, which is being financed            ogD
in part by the Bank. Mr. Tucker died in Istanbul  The Bank has continued the training program
after a brief illness. His death was a serious loss to    which was inaugurated in 1'949. For the third
his many friends among the Executive Directors    course under this programr, beginning in January
and staff of the Bank. Mr. Tucker was succeeded    1915, eiglht persorns were selected, one each from
as Director of Marketing on November 1, 1950    Denmark, finland, Iceland, Mexico, Pakistan, the
by Mr. George L. Martin, wno had been the head    Philippines, Turkey and  Yu,goslavia. The Bank
of the temporary Middle Western office of the    plans iO cOstinue  iS program and is now in
Bank in Chicago for the term of its existence, from  process of selecting a fourrn group to begin train-
January to July, 1950.                          ing in Januay 1952.
Mr. Ansel F. Luxford, who had been a member     Early in 1950 the Bank inaugurated a pilot
of the Bank's staff since the start of its operations,    program of ctainlng in public finance for selected
resigned as Associate General Counsel on April   officials of underdeveloped countries. The object
30, 1951 to enter private practice. Mr. Aron    of the program has been to assist governments to
Broches of the Legal Department was appointed    im prove their financial and accounting procedures
Assistant General Counsel on May 1, 1951.       ir accordance wvith the Barin's general purpose of
The only major change in the functions of the    furthering fhe de 'eiopment of its member coun-
various departments during the year was the as-   tries. Two government officials, one from India
sumption by the Loan Department of responsibility    and one from  Thailand, have completed their
for assisting borrowers to procure capital equip-    training, which included the study of financial
[45]



procedures of United States federal, state and city   istrative Budget of the Bank for the fiscal year
governments. Two other officials, from Turkey    ending June 30, 1952. This budget has been pre-
and Honduras, are presently in the United States    pared by the President and approved by the Execu-
under this program. It is expected that the program  tive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of
will be continued on the present selective basis.  the By-Laws. A special report on the budget is
Administrative Budget                           being submitted to the Board of Governors at the
There is attached as Appendix H the Admin-    Annual Meeting.
[46]



MISCELLANEOUS
Relations with Other International               The Bank was represented at all meetings of
Organizations                              the Technical Assistance Board of the Uniced Na-
uons and of the Technical Assistance Commiutee,
During the past year the Bank continued to    which reviews the Board's activities on behalf of
maintain close relations with the International   the Economic and Social Council. The Food and
Monetary Fund, the United Nations and other    Agriculture Organidation  of the United Natoond,
international organizations. The Bank continued     A  e   rgntion         of the U d-
as has been mentioned in another part of the Re-
its practice of having representatives at meetings    port, has joined with the Bank in sponsoring
of the United Nations General Assembly and the    missions to survey agricultural development in
Economic and Social Council. At the spring meet-    Chile and Urguay and has nominated expets on
ing of the Council in Santiago, the President of the    other survey missions as have the World
Bank took an active part in the discussion of the    or sure   io  as haie  thorl   &
genealpfblem of inaning conoic dvelo Organization and the United Nations Educational,
general problems of financing economic develop-    Scientific and Cultural Organization. Mention has
ment. During the course of the year, representa-    already been made of the seminar for discu:mOn
tives of the Bank also attended meetings of the    of methods and techniques of econornic develo-
regional economic commissions - the Economic
Comrmission for Europe, the Economic Commission    ment planning, jointly sponsored by the Eco.fiic
Commission for Latin America and the Bank,
for Latin America, and the Economic Commssion    and of th  triigisiueso  h   cnu
and of the trainin  instiutes on the ecoiioirl-ic
for Asia and the Far East - and the Bank kept in    a  
appraisal of development programs unde_ita1.gn
close touc3h with the Consultative Coimmnittee on    jointly by the FAO, the United Nations aLid i--e
Economic Development in South and Southeast    Bank.
Asia and the Organization of American States.
In March a group of experts appointed by rhe    Membersbip and Subscription
Secretary-General of the Uniited Nations visited
the Bank to consult informally with staff members  Ceylon became a meimber of the Bank in Anasc
on problems relating to the economic develop-    1950, bringing the total membership to 49. The
ment of less developed countries. Their report,    Bank's total subscribed capital was $8,33805 rmil-
"Measures for Economic Development of Under-   lion as of June 30, 1951. While the Bank's capital
Developed Countries," was considered at a meet-   had increased by $115 million through the adnais-
ing, in which officers of the Bank participated, of    sion of Pakistan and Ceylon in July and Aug-sc
the Economic, Employment and Development    1950, it was reduced by $125 million after the
Commission of the Economic and Social Council.    withdrawal of Poland by the repurchase by dae
The President of the Bank attended several    Bank on September 14, 1950 of the 1,250 sharis
meetings of the United Natiors Administrative    to which Poland had subscribed. The applicaUion
Committee on Coordination, and staff members   for membership by Burma (proposed subscription
attended meetings of its subsidiary comrnittees.    $15 million) was approved by the Board of Gov-
The Bank is also collaborating with the United    ernors in May 1951, and that country will have
Nations Film Board in making short documentary    until October 15, 1951 to accept membership in
records of several projects which have been par-   the Bank. The application by Swedein (proposed
tially financed by the Bank.                   subscription $100 million) was referred tc the
[47 ]



Board of Governors for vote in June 1951. In      (e) Revised Loan Regulations Nos. 3 and 4.
addition, the applications of Jordan, Indonesia   (f) Decisions of Executive Directors Interpret-
and the Federal Republic of Germany are being        ing Articles of Agreement.
given consideration. The period in which Haiti
and Liberia could have accepted membership ex-    Appendices
pired in September 1950.                         In addition to Appendices A through H con-
Addition41 Reports to Board of Governors       tamining the financial statements and reports and
the administrative budget of the Bank, there are
Reports in addition tO this Annual Report are    also included for the information of the Governors
being submitted to the Board of Governors at the    the following appendices:
Sixth Annual Meeting. With regard to the Ad-     Appendix I-Voting Power and Subscriptions
visory Council of the Bank, the study of rhe Execu-          of Member Countries as of June
tive Directors is continuing. The additional reports         30, 1951.
cover:                                           Appendix J-Governors and Alternates as of
(a) Administrative Budget.                                 June 30, 1951.
(b) Allocation of Income by Executive Di-      Appendix K-Executive Directors and Alter-
rectors to Reserve.                                    nates and their Voting Power as
(c) Applications for Membership.                           of June 30, 1951.
(d) Resolution of United Nations Assembly      Appendix L-Principal Officers of the Bank as
377 (V) entitled "Uniting for Peace."                  of June 30, 1951.
[48]



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                    I    I                        I



APPENDIX A
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1951
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financidl Statements)
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Other Depositories (APPENDIX D)
-NOTE A
Member currency-United States ..................    8,944,939
Member currency-other than United States                                  111,922,773
Non-member currency ...........................                             4,273,280    $ 125,!40,992
Investment Securities
United States Government obligations ($434,391,600
face amount; at cost plus accumulated discount and
less amortized premium) .......................$  434,143,650
United Kingdom Government obligations (£1,175,000
face amount; at cost) .3,286,955    $ 437,430,605
Accrued interest           ..                                                1,354,188   438,784.793
Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital (APPEN-
DIx E)
Payable in member currency-United States
Calls on subscription to capital stock-NOTE B ......                 $   3,595,000
Payable in member currency-other than United States
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes..   $ 799,555,522
Amounts required to maintain value of currency hold-
ings-NOTE C .............................             2,947,688       802,503,210       806,098,210
Loans Outstanding Held by Bank-(APPENDIX C)-
NOTEs D and E   ............... .............                                              1,004,343,657
Actrued Interest, Commitment and Service Charges on
Loans-NOTE B                                                                                   5,290,360
Other Assets
Receivable from sale of Sterling Stock ...............                 $  10,080,000
Miscellaneous receivables and other assets                                    477,276         10,557,276
Special Reserve Fund Assets-NOTE F
Due from Banks-member currency-United States                            $         449
Investment securities-United States Government obliga-
tions ($18,626,900 face amount; at cost)                                 18,626,900
Accrued loan commissions-NOTE E .                                            1,498,399        20,125,748
Staff Retirement Plan Assets
(Segregated and held in trust) .....,,,,,,,,                                                   1,481,634
Total Assets                                                                   $2,411,822,670
(5o ]



APPENDIX A
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1951
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilitries
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including
$3,411,257 bond interest .......................                                         $    4,037,225
Undisbursed balance of loans
On loans held by Bank...                                              $ 348,284,845
On loans represented by obligations of borrowers sold
under guarantee .     .       ...........................                3,450,450       351,735,295
Funded debt-NOTE G
Amount payable in United States Dollars
2%7o Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1953-62 .........  $ 100,000,000
Twenty-Five Year 3%  Bonds, due July 15, 1972        150,000,000
Twenty-Five Year 3% Bonds of 1951, due March
1, 1976        ..                                  50,000,000  $ 300,000,000
Amount payable in Pounds Sterling
3y2-,%  Stock 1966-71 (.5,000,000) ............                         14,000,000
Amount payable in Swiss Francs
21/2 % Swiss Franc Serial Bonds of 1948, due 1953-
54 (Sw fr 17,000,000) .$    3,955,788
2½2 % Swiss Franc Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1953-
56 (Sw fr 28,500,000) .       ......... I .........  6,631,763        10,587,551       324,587,551
Bonds called for redemption not presented .                             $        2,215
Less funds on deposit with Fiscal Agent therefor.                              2,215
Reserves for Losses
Special reserve-NOTE F .........................                        $   20,125,748
General (Supplemental) reserve-NOTE H                                       42,155,217         62,280,965
Staff Retirement Plan Reserve                                                                     1,481,634
Capital (APPENDIX E)
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 83,385 shares .....................                      $8,338,500,000
Less-Uncalled portion of subscriptions-NOTE  I                       6,670,800,000      1,667,700,000
Contingent Liability-Obligations of Borrowers Out-
Standing Sold under Guarantee-NOTE D $22,098,550
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital....                                     $2,411,822,670
[ 511



APPENDIX B
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the Fiscal Years
Ended June 30, 1950 and June 30, 1951
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
July i-June 30
1949-1950            1950-1951
Income
Interest earned on investments .......,........ $ 5,152,517   $ 6,116,319
Income from loans:
Interest ................... ......................................... .17,670,427  19,926,371
Commitment charges ..................................................   . 2,491,707                                                    2,053,197
Commissions .................................................                                                     5,663,064            6,388,543
Service  charges ...............................................                                                    141,281                88,207
Other income ........... ...............................................                                                             8,133    18,448
Gross Income .........  $31,127,129  $34,591,085
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commission appropriated to Special Reserve (NOTE  F)                                     5,663,064            6,388,543
Gross Income  Less Reserve  Deduction ............................$ 25,464,065                                            $28,202,542
Expenses
Administrative expenses:
Personal services ...........  $ 2,672,630  $ 2,778,456
Expense allowances-Executive Directors and Alternates .......................                                         12,194                4,317
Fees and  compensation  ................................................                                            334,958              406,976
Representation ......... .............................................. .46,713    57,589
Travel .. ...........................................................                                               437,257               597,011
Supplies and material .......... .,,, 26,954                                                                                               45,060
Rents and utility services ................33666 ......................                                                                  335,887
Communication services ................,,,,,,,,,.........    89,522                                                                       106,860
Furniture and equipment .........................................                                                     28,540               29,513
Motor vehicles .5,335  10,843
Books and library services .................. , , . ............                                                      59,707               56,554
Printing  ............................................................                                                 36,764              84,018
Contributions to staff benefits .......................,.,,.,..,..,......                                           266,126              300,322
Insurance ........................                                                      ..........    14,644                               29,040
Other expenses ........................                               ..........                ......                 2,201                1,001
Total Administrative  Expenses  .................................... $  4,370,011                                         $  4,843,447
Interest on bonds .6,811,798  7,248,276
Bond registration, issuance and other financial expenses .,, 583,858                                                                        953,872
Gross   Expenses .............................................. $11,765,667                                               $13,045,595
Net Income-Appropriated to General Reserve for Losses on Loans and Guarantees-   -
NOTE H  ., ...................................... .......................   13,698,398                                                 $15,156,947
[ 52



I                           I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I       I                           I



APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1951
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial S4taements)
Date of
Borrower and Guarantor                     Program or Project                          Loan Agreement  Maturities
Australia                                  Equipment and materials for development             Aug. 22, 1950   1955-1975
Belgifm                                    Equipment for steel and power industries            Mar.  1, 1949   1953-1969
Brazil (Guarantor)                                                                                                    -
Brazilian Traction (First Installment)   Electric power development and telephone equipment  Jan. 27, 1949   1953-1974
Brazilian Traction (Second Installment)  Electric power development                          Jan. 18, 1951   1955-1976
Sao Francisco Hidro E1ec. Co.           Electric power development                           May 26, 1950   1954-1975
Chile (Guarantor)
Fomento and Endesa                      Electric power development                           Mar. 25, 1948   1953-1968
Fomento                                 Agricultural machinery                               Mar. 25, 1948   1950-1955
Colombia                                   Highway construction and rehabilitation             Apr. 10, 1951   1954-1961
Colombia (Guarantor)
Caja de Credito                          Agricultural machinery                              Aug. 19, 1949  1952-1956
CHIDRAL                                 Electric power development                           Nov. 2, 1950  1954-1970
Caldas Hidro-Elec. Co.                  Electric power development                           Dec. 28, 1950  1952-1971
Denmark                                    Equipment and materials for reconstruction and devel-
opment                                            Aug. 22, 1947   1953-1972
El Salvador (Guarantor)
Comisi6n del Rio Lempa                  Electric power development                           Dec. 14, 1949   1954-1975
Ethiopia                                   Rehabilitation of road system                       Sept. 13, 1950   1956-1971
Foreign exchange for Development Bank               Sept. 13, 1950   1956-1971
Rehabilitation and extension of telephone and telegraph
systems                                           Feb. 19, 1951   1956-1971
Finland                                    Equipment for timber production                     Oct. 17, 1949  1950-1951
Finland (Guarantor)
Bank of Finland                         Electric power development and equipment for wood-
working industries and limestone powder production  Aug.  1, 1949   1953-1964
France (GUarantor)
Credit National                         Equipment and materials for reconstruction and devel-
opment                                            May  9, 1947   1952-1977
Iceland                                    Electric power development                          June 20, 1951   1956-1973
India                                      Railway rehabilitation                              Aug. 18, 1949   1950-1964
Agricultural machinery                              Sept. 29, 1949  1952-1956
Electric power development    v                     Apr. 18, 1950   1955-1970
Iraq                                       Construction of a flood-control project             June 15, 1950  1956-1965
Luxembourg                                 Equipment for steel mill and railroads              Aug. 28, 1947   1949-1972
Mexico (Guarantor)
Financiera and Comisi6n                 Electric power development                           Jan.  6, 1949  1953-1973
Financiera and Comisi6n                 Electric power development                           Jan.  6, 1949 July 1, 1950
Mexican Light and Power Co., Ltd.        Electric power development                          Apr. 28, 1950   1953-1975
Consortium of Eight Mexican Banks and   Foreign exchange for small private enterprises                         To be
Nacional Financiera                                                                        Oct. 18, 1950  determined
Netherlands                                Equipment and materials for reconstruction and devel-
opment                                            Aug. 7, 1947   1954-1972
Equipment and materials for reconstruction and devel-
opment (Supplemental Loan Agreement)              May 25, 1948   1953-1954
- 541                                                                                                     Carried forward



APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1951
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Interest                                                                     Effective                 lUndisbuirsed
Rate      Original        Loans     Cancellations   Principal   Obligations  Loans         Principal    Balance of
(Including    Principal    Not Yet        and      Repayments  of Borrowers   Outstanding    Amount        Eflective
Commission)   Amount        Effective   Refundings    to Bank   Sold by Bank  Heid by Bank    Disbursed      Loans
41/4%7   $ 100,000,000  $   -       $   $                     $   -       $ 100,000,000  $  9,057,902  $ 90,942,098
4 Y4%       16,000,000            -            -               16,000,000        -          12,549,550     3,450,450
41/2       75,000,000       -            -           -          3,062,848     71,937,152    53,450,936    21,549,064
41/4%,      15,000,000      -            -           -            -           15,000,000     1,579,576    13.420,424
4 1/4 f     o 15,000,000                                                      15,000,000     5,740,911    9,259,089
41/%       13,500,000       -            -            _           -           13.500,000    3,910,815     9,589,185
33/4 %1o    2,500,000       -            -          473,000      549,000       1,478,000    2,500,000        -
3-7/8%     16,500,000   16,500,000      -            -            -              -             -
31 %+       5,000,000       -            74,559      -            -           4,925,441     4,925,441        -
4%         3,530,000       _-                       -            -           3,530,000       263,715     3,266,285
4%c        2,600,000                    -           -            -            2,600,000     1,782,516      8i7,484
41/4 ','o  40,000,000                _                            -          40,000,000    40,000,000
4'/4%       12,545,000      -            -           -                        12,545.000     2.485,548    10,059,452
4%         5,000,000       -            -           -            -            5,000,000      472,178     4,527,822
4%         2,000,000       -           -            -            -            2,000,000       -          2,000,000
4%         1,500,000    1,500,000       -           -            -              --            _             _
3'         2,300,000       -           -          1,565,009      -             734,991     1,983,739       316,26?
4          12,500,000                  -            -            57,010      12,442,990    7,400,775      5,099,225
41//4     250,000,000       -                                     50,000    249,950,000   250,000,000        -
438/ %70    2,450,000    2,450,000       -           -            -
4%        34,000,000       -         1,200,000    1,707,529      -          31,092,471    32,800,000
31/., %    10,000,000       -           -            -            -          10,000,000     4,051,632     5,948,368
18,500,000      -            -           -            -           18,500,000    6,132,889    12,367,111
3 ,/4 %o    12,800,000   12,800,000      -           -            -              -             -
41/4yf ~    12,000,000      -           238,017      151,983     632,000      10,978,000    11,761,983
414/2%     24,100,000       -            -           -            -           24,100,000    12,168,610    11,931,390
41/, 7%    10,000,000       -        10,000,000 (Refunding)       -              _
41/2       26,000,000       -            -           -            -          26,000,000    11,123,634    14,876,366
3127%      10,000,000   1(,000,000                   -             -
41 (7o    191,044,212       -            -           -            50,000    190,994,212   191,044,212        -
41/ CJo     3,955,788       -            _                                     3,955,788    3,955,788        -
$945,325,000  $43,250,000  $11,512,576   $3,897,521  $20,400,858   $866,264,045  $671,142,350  $219,420,074
[ 55 ]



APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1951 (Continued)
EXPRESSED IN UNII'ED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Sta;cements)
Date of
Borrower and Gudraror                        Program or Project                             Loan Agreement  Maturii-ji
Brouglht forwa.i
Netherlands (Guarantor)
N. V. Sroomvaart Mij. "Nederland"          Purchase of S. S. Raki and S. S. Roebiah               July -15, 1948   1949-1958
N. V. Vereenigde Schvrt. Mij.              Purchase of S.S. Almkerk                               July  15, 1948   1949-1958
N. V Ned.-Amer. Stoomvaart-Mij.
"Holland-Amerika Lijn"                  Purchase of S.S. Alblasserdijk                          July  15, 1948   1949-i 958
N. V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd                  Purchase of S.S. Friesland and S.S. Drente             July  15, 1948   1949-!958
Herstelbank                                Equipment for reconstruction and modernization of pcr-
ticular industrial plants                           July  26, 1949   1952-196-!
Nicaragua                                    Highway construction                                   June  7, 1951   1954- 9
Nicaragua (Guarantor)
Banco Nacional de Nicaragua                Agricultural machinery                                 June  7, 1951    954   -19
South Africa                                 Expansion of transport facilities                      Jan. 23, 1951   1956---
South Africa (Guarantor)
Electricity Supply Commission              Electric power development                             Jan. 23, 1951        54 -
Thailand                                     Railway rehabilitation                                 Oct. 27, 1950   1954- !9,,
Irrigation                                             Oct. 27, 1950   195- 197i
Port construction and developrment                     Oct. 27, 1950  1b54-1,6 8
Turkey                                       Construction of grain-storage facilities               July   7, 1950   1954-!968
TI.arkey (Guarantor)                         Port construction and development                      July  7, 1950   1956-19t 7
Industrial Development bank of Turkey   Foreign exchatnge for development of private inluascry  OCct. 19, -195  
Uruguay (Guarantor)
U. T. E.                                   Electric powcr development and telephocn  c3uipr.enr   Au-g. 25, 19$0 59
Yugoslavia                                   Equipment for timber production                        Oct. 17, 1949   19 50 -915
TOTAL LOANS GRANTED--NOT1S 1D and E
[56]



APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1951 (Continued)
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Finanril Statements)
Interest                                                                     Eflective                  Undisbarsed
Rate      Original        Loans     Cancellations   Principal   Obligations  Loans         Principal   Balance of
(Including    Pricipal     Not Yet        and      Repdyments  of Borrowers   Outstanding    Amount       Effective
Commission)   Amount        Effective   Refundings    to Bank   Sold by Bank  Held by Batk    Disbursed      Loans
$945,325,000  $43,250,000  $11,512,576   $3,897,521  $20,400,858   $866,264,045  $671,142,350  $ 19,420,074
- 3D9o%      4,000,000      -            -            -         4,000,000        -           4,000,000       -
3%670        2,000,000      -                         -         2,000,000        -           2,000,000       -
394%6        2,000,000      -            -            -         2,000,000        -           2,000,000       -
3946%        4,000,000      -            -            -         4,000,000        -           4,000,000       -
4%;       15,000,000       -         6,200,000      -           616,638      8,183,362      3,953,580    4,846,420
41/8 %      3,500,000    3,500,000       -           -            -              -             _             _
4 %         1,200,000    1,200,000      -                                                                   -
33/4%      20,000,000       -           -            -            -          20,000,000        -         20,000,000
4%S       30,000,000       -            -           -            -          30,000,000      1,839,291    28,160,709
33/4%       3,000,000       -           -            -            -           3,000,000        -          3,000,000
4%        18,000,000       -            -           -            -          18,000,000        15,000    17,985,000
33/4 %      4,400,000    4,400,000      -             _           _              _             _             _
3 789S      3,900,000       -           -            -            -           3,900,000        67,715     3,832,285
4/4% -7,   12,500,000       -            -           -            -           12,500,000       -         12,500,000
33C Y479,000,000            -           -            -            -           9,000,000         9,193     8,990,807
41/4       33,000,000       -            -           -            -          33,000,000        -         33,000,000
3%         2,700,000       -           -          2,203,750      -             496,250     2,700,000        -
$1,113,525,000  $52,350,000  $17,712,576   $6,101,271  $33,017,496 $1,004,343,657  $691,727,129  $351,735,295
[ 57]



APPENDIX D
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1951
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Total
Amount Expressed                                     Expressed in
Unit of        In Member Currency       Rate of Exchange             United States
Currency            (Restricted)            (Note A)                    Dollars
Member Currencies:
Australia                 Pound                 160,839           $ =        0.4464            $    360,280
Austria                   Schilling           1,288,457           $         14.40                    89,564
Belgium                   Franc              18,016,928           $ =       50.00                   360,339
Bolivia                   Boliviano             737,429           $         60.00                     12,290
Brazil                    Cruzeiro          349,434,903           $         18.50                 18,888,373
Canada                    Dollar              3,717,750           $ =        1.10                  3,379,773
Ceylon                    Rupee              12,855,920           $ =        4.7619                2,699,746
Chile                     Peso              194,637,871           $         31.00                  6,278,641
China                     Gold Yuan          21,581,589           $ =       20.00                  1,079,079
Colombia                  Peso               12,264,238           $ =        1.950.                6,289,414
Costa Rica                Col6n               2,004,020           $ =        5.615                  356,905
Cuba                      Peso                   59,585           $          1.00                     59,585
Czechoslovakia            Koruna             11,062,883           $         50.00                   221,258
Denmark                   Krone                 575,691           $          6.907                   83,347
Dominican Republic        Peso                    3,190           $ =        1.00                      3,190
Ecuador                   Sucre               8,598,807           $ =       15.00                   573,254
.Egypt                    Pound                  21,706           $ =        0.3482                  62,331
El Salvador               Col6n                 436,726           $ =        2.50                   174,690
Ethiopia                  Dollar              1,298,430           $ =        2.484                  522,618
Finland                   Markka            929,725,054           $       230.00                   4,042,283
France                    Franc             183,255,887           $       349.6                     524,187
Greece                    Drachma        22,500,000,000           $      5,000.00                  4,500,000
Guatemala                 Quetzal               352,888           $          1.00                   352.888
H,onduras                 Tempira                 2,600           $          2.00                      1,300
Iceland                   Kr6na               2,900,576           $         16.286                  178.106
India                     Ruoee               3,252,729           $ =        4.762                  683,073
Iran                      Rial                1,684,724           $         32.25                     52,239
Iraq                      Dinar                   4,024           $          0.3571                   11,268
izaiy                     Lira            7,258,807,169           $ e     225.00                 32,261,365
Lebanon                   Pound               1,768,275           $ _        2.191                  806,886
Luxembourg                Franc                 770,634           $ =       5000                      15,413
Mexico                    Peso              101,066,425           $ -        8.65                11,683,980
Netherlands               Guilder              1,834,791          $ =        3.80                   482,840
Nicaragua                 Cordoba               700,076           $          5.00                   140,015
Norway                    Krone                 624,291           $          7.143                   87,401
Pakistan                  Rupee                 552,218           $          3.309                  166,908
Panama                    Balboa                 35,995           $          1.00                     35,995
Paraguay                  Guarani             1,501,183           $          6.oo                   250,197
Peru                      Sol                    65,604           $          6.50                     10,093
Philippines               Peso                2,382,999           $          2.00                  1,191,500
Syria                     Pound                  12,438           $          2.191                     5,676
Thailand                  Baht                  161,997           $         12.50                     12,960
Turkey                    Lira                  135,041           $          2.80                    48,229
Union of South Africa     Pound                  61,520           $          0.3571                  172,257
United Kingdom            Pound                 694,832           S          0.3571                1,945,529
United States             Dollar              4,950,318                       None                 4,950,318
Uruguay                   Peso                2,846,177           $          1.519                 1,873,657
Venezuela                 Bolivar             4,564,456           S          3.35                  1,362,524
Yugoslavia                Dinar             359,490,127           $         50.00                  7,189,802
Restricted Currency (NOTE J) ..............................         $116,533,5
Unrestricted Currency (Belgium, Canada, United Kingdom and United
States) .4,334,146
$120,867,712
Non-Member Currency (Switzerland)  ................................................                 4,273,280
Total (NOTE K) .......... $125,140,992
[583



I



APPENDIX E
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-June 30, 1951
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Amounts Paid In
Subscriptions                               (Note A)
In Currency of
Member Other
Amount               Usited Stdaes          Than United
Member                           Sbares            (Note L)                Dollars             States Dollars
1  Australia                         2,000          $ 200,000,000           $  4,000,000           $   360,368
2  Austria                             500              50,000,000              1,000,000                90,000
3  Belgium                           2,250             225,000,000             4,500,000              2,344r422
4  Bolivia                              70               7,000,000               140,000                 12,600
5  Brazil                            1,050             105,000,000              2,100,000            18,900,000
6  Canada                            3,250             325,000,000              6,500,000            13,340,334
7  Ceylon                              150              15,000,000               300,000              2,700,000
8  Chile                               350              35,000,000               700,000              6,300,000
9  China                             6,000             600,000,000              9,030,000             1,080,000
10  Colombia                            350              35,000,000               700,000              6,300,000
11  Costa Rica                           20               2,000,000                40,000                360,000
12  Cuba                                350              35,000,000               700,000                 63,000
13  Czechoslovakia                    1,250             125,000,000              1,875,000               225,000
14  Denmark                             680              68,000,000              1,360,000               158,594
15  Dominican Republic                   20               2,000,000                40,000                  3,600
16  Ecuador                              32               3,200,000                64,000                576,000
17  Egypt                               533              53,300,000              1,066,000                95,940
18  El Salvador                          10               1,000,000                20,000                180,000
19  Ethiopia                             30               3,000,000                60,000                540,000
20  Finland                             380              38,000,000               760,000              4,046,069
21  France                             5,250            525,000,000             10,500,000             1,193,364
22  Greece                              250              25,000,000               500,000              4,500,000
23  Guatemala                            20               2,000,000                40,000                360,000
24  Honduras                             10               1,000,000                20,000                  3,600
25  Iceland                              10               1,000,000                20,000                180,000
26  India                             4,000             400,000,000              8,000,000               721,800
27  Iran                                336              33,600,000               672,000                 60,480
28  Iraq                                 60               6,000,000               120,000                 20,880
29  Italy                             1,800             180,000,000              3,600,000            32,400,000
30  Lebanon                              45               4,500,000                90,000                810,000
31  Luxembourg                          100              10,000,000               200,000                 18,000
32  Mexico                              650              65,000,000              1,300,000            11,700,000
33  Netherlands                       2,750             275,000,000              5,500,000               552,631
34  Nicaragua                             8                 800,000                16,000                144,000
35  Norway                              500              50,000,000              1,000,000                90,000
36  Pakistan                           1,000            100,000,000              2,000,000               180,008
37  Panama                                2                 200,000                 4,000                 36,000
38  Paraguay                             14               1,400,000                28,000                252,000
39  Peru                                175              17,500,000               350,000                 31,500
40  Philippine Republic                 150              15,000,000               300,000               1,200,000
41  Syria                                65               6,500,000               130,000                 11,700
42  Thailand                            125              12,500,000               250,000                 22,500
43  Turkey                              430              43,000,000               860,000                 77,400
44  Union of South Africa              1,000            100,000,000              2,000,000               180,000
45  United Kingdom                    13,000           1,300,000,000            26,000,000             4,050,000
46  United States                    31,750           3,175,000,000            635,000,000                --
47  Uruguay                             105              10,500,000               210,000               1,890,000
48  Venezuela                           105              10,500,000               210,000               1,365,000
49  Yugoslavia                          400              40,000,000               800,000              7,200,000
83,385         $8,338,500,000           $734,675,000          $126,926,790
(60]



APPENDIX E
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-June 30, 1951
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Amounts Paid In                 Amounts
(Note A)                    Required to
Maintain
Non-Interest-            Value of                                     Subject to Call
Bearing, Non-            Currency               Amounts              to Meet Obliga.            Number
Negotiable              Holdings                 Due                  tions of Bank              of
Demand Notes             (Note C)               (Note B)                 (Note I)                Votes
$ 35,639,632            S  -                   $  -                  $ 160,000,000               2,250   1
8,910,000                -                     -                      40,000,000               750   2
38,155,578                _                      _                    180,000,000              2,500   3
1,247,400               -                      -                       5,600,000               320   4
-                     -                      -                      84,000,000             1,300   5
45,005,909               153,757                 -                    260,000,000              3,500   6
-                     -                      -                      12,000,000               400   7
-          -                                 -                     28,000,000                600   8
106,920,000                                    2,970,000               480,000,000              6,250   9
-        -                                  -                     28,000,000               600  10
-                     -                      -                       1,600,000               270  11
6,237,000                -                      -                     28,000,000               600  12
22,275,000               -                     625,000                100,000,000              1,500  13
12,081,406               -                      -                      54,400,000               930  14
356,400                -                      -                       1,600,000               270  15
_                     _                       _                      2,560,000               282  16
9,498,060               -                       -                     42,640,000               783  17
-                     -                       -                       800,000                260  18
_ _                                           2,400,000               280  19
-                  2,793,931                 -                      30,400,000               630  20
93,306,636                -                      -                    420,000,000              5,500  21
-                     -                       -                    20,000,000                500  22
-                     -                      --                      i,600,ooo               270  23
176,400                -                      -                        800,000                260  24
-                     -                      -                        800,000                260  25
71,278,200                -                     -                     320,000,000              4,250  26
5,987,520               -                      -                      26,880,000               586  27
1,059,120               -                      -                       4,800,000               310  28
-                     -                      -                    144,000,000              2,050  29
_                     -                      -                       3,600,000               295  30
1,782,000               -                      -                       8,000,000               350  31
_                     -                      -                      52,000,000               900  32
48,947,369                -                      _                    220,000,000              3,000  33
-                     -                      _                        640,000                258  34
8,910,000               -                      -                      40,000,000               750  35
17,819,992               -                      -                      80,000,000              1,250  36
-  -  -                  160,000               252  37
_                     _                      _                       1,120,000               264  38
3,118,500               _                       _                     14,000,000               425  39
1,500,000               -                      -                      12,000,000               400  40
1,158,300               -                      -                       5,200,000               315  41
2,227,500               -                      -                      10,000,000               375  42
7,662,600               -                      -                      34,400,000               680  43
17,820,000               -                      -                      80,000,000              1,250  44
229,950,000                                                           1,040,000,000            13,250  45
_                     _                      _                   2,540,000,000            32,000  46
_                     _                       -                      8,400,000               355  47
525,000                -                      -                       8,400,000               355  48
_                        __                                         32,000,000               650  49
$799,555,522            $2,947,688             $3,595,000            $6,670,800,000             95,635
[61]



APPENDIX F
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1951
NOTE A                                                    NOTE C
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars    Payment due within a reasonable time under Article II,
have been translated into United States dollars:          Section 9(a) from two members by reason of a reduction
(i) In the cases of 39 members, at the par values  in the established par values of such members' currencies.-
(i) Ithcaeof3mebr,athpavaus                           This Section provides as follows:
established under the International Monetary Fund
Agreement as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values"       (a) Whenever (i) the par value of a member's
published by the International Monetary Fund; and          currency is reduced, or (ii) the foreign exchange value-
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 10 members           of a member's currency has, in the opinion of the Bank,
(Austria, Canada, Ceylon, China, France, Greece, Italy,   depreciated to a significant extent within that member's
Peru, Thailand and Uruguay), the par values of whose      territories, the member shall pay to the Bank within a
currencies are not so specified, at the rates used by such  reasonable time an additional amount of its own cur-
members in making capital payments.                       rency sufficient to maintain the value, as of the time of
initial subscription, of the amount of the currency of
(iii) In the case of non-member currency, all Swiss     such member which is held by the Bank and derived
francs, at 4.2975 Swiss francs to 1 United States dollar.  from currency originally paid in to the Bank by the
No representation is made that any of such currencies     member under Article II, Section 7(i), from currency
is convertible into any other of such currencies at any rate  referred to in Article IV, Section 2(b), or from any
or rates. See also Note C.                                   additional currency furnished under the provisions of
the present paragraph, and which has nor been repur-
NOTE B                                                       chased by the member for gold or for the currency of
any member which is acceptable to the Bank.
Under Article II, Section 8(a) (i) any original mem-
ber of the Bank whose metropolitan territories suffered        (b) Whenever the par value of a member's currency
from enemy occupation or hostilities during World War       is increased, the Bank shall return to such member
II had a right to postpone payment of 1/2 of 1%o of the      within a reasonable time an amount of that member's
amount of its subscription payable in gold or United States  currency equal to the increase in the value of the
dollars until June 25,1951. All memberswho received such     amount of such currency described in (a) above.
a postponement have made payment in full except China          (c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs may
and Czechoslovakia. China has made a payment of $30,-        be waived by the Bank when a uniform proportionate
000 and has stated that it recognized its obligation to the  change in the par values of the currencies of all its
Bank and would pay the balance of $2,970,000 as soon         members is made by the International Monetary Fund.
as it was in a position to do so. Czechoslovakia has claimed
a further postponement under Article II, Section 8(a) (ii),  NOTE D
which reads as follows:                                      The Bank has sold under its guarantee $12,000,000 of
"An original member who cannot make such a pay-       21/2%  serial notes, $549,000 of 23/4%  serial bonds and
ment because it has not recovered possession of its gold  $16,000,000 of 3%o sinking fund bonds received by the
reserves which are still seized or immobilized as a re-  Bank in connection with its loan operations of which
sult of the war may postpone all payment until such     amounts a total of $3,000,000 has been retired. Of the
date as the Bank shall decide."                         total of $25,549,000 of obligations outstanding under
guarantee $3,450,450 is reflected in the balance sheet as
The Bank has not passed on such claim.                    a direct liability subject to withdrawal.
NOTE E
The principal outstanding on loans disbursed, and the accrued charges for interest, commitment fee, service charge
and loan commission are payable in United States dollars except the following amounts for which the dollar equivalent is
shown:
Accrued Interest,
Principal      Commitment and    Accrued Loan
Currency Payable                  Outstanding      Service Charges     Commissions           Total
Belgian Francs .......... ........          $ 2,073,853          $ 20,289          $ 6,116          $ 2,100,258
Canadian Dollars ........ ........           10,126,770            74,578           24,623           10,225,971
Danish Kroner .......... ........                53,676               666              222               54,564
French Francs ...................               364,259              2,390             598              367,247
Italian Lire .....................               98,675              1,042             297              100,014
Pounds Sterling ................              2,000,815                147               58           2,001,020
Swiss Francs  .............. ...              6,271,358            45,118           13,953            6,330,429
Total ..............  .....          $20,989,406          $144,230          $45,867          $21,179,503
[62]



NOTE F                                                 however, that, if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed
The amount of commissions received by the Bank on    capital is entirely called, such currencies may, without
loans made or guaranteed by it is required under Article    restriction by the members whose currencies are offered,
IV, Section 6 to be set aside as a special reserve to be kept  be used or exchanged for the currencies required to meet
available for meeting obligations of the Bank created  y  contractual payments of interest, other charges or amoti-
borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all loans granted  zation on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the
to date the effective rate of commission is 1 % per annum.  Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual payments on
loans guaranteed by it.
NOTE G                                                 NOTE K
As sinking funds for the two issues of United States   The currencies of the several members, and the notes
Twenty-Five Year Dollar Bonds and the issue of Sterling  substituted by them for any part of such currencies, as
Stock, the Bank has agreed to purchase and retire or re-  perznirted under te provisions of Artide V, Section 12,
deem bonds of each such      issue in varying amounts calcu-  are held on deposit with designated depositories in the
lated to retire 50%7 of the total of such issue by maturity.    tertre of thepciemmes
In July 1951 the Bank sold a public issue of 3m/2aiss,   territories of the respective members.
Franc Bonds of 1951, due August 1, 1963 in the principal  NOTE L
amount of Sw fr 50,000,000 (United States equivalent
approximately $11,600,000).                              In terms of United States doliars of the weight and
fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
NOTE H
Pursuant to action of the Board of Governors and     GENERAL
Executive Directors the net income of the Bank has been  Burma has until October 15, 1951, and Sweden until
allocated to a General Reserve Against Losses on Loans  August 31, 1951, to comply with the terms and condi-
and Guarantees Made by the Bank; and the future net    tions of the respective resolutions of the Board of Gov-
income of the Bank will, until further action by the   ernors authorizing admission to membership in the Bank
Executive Directors or the Board of Governors, be allo-  with share subscriptions of $15,000,000 and $100,000,-
cated to this reserve.                                 000 respectively. Formal applications for membership
have also been received from Indonesia, Jordan and the
NOTE I                                                 Federal Republic of Germany but final action on these
applications has not yet been taken by the Board of
Subject to call by the Bank only when required to meet  Governors.
the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing or
guaranteeing loans.                                    LMTIGATION
NOTE J                                                   A suit has been commenced by an individual plaintiff
against the Bank asking damages of approximately $625,-
These currencies are derived from the 18 %  of the   000 for alleged interference with plaintiff's contractual
subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which is    relationships (Frank H. Redicker v. Warfield et al., U. S.
payable in the currencies of the respective members. Such  District Court, Southern District of New York, Civil No.
18 % may be loaned by the Bank, and funds received by  61-210). The Bank has denied the substance of the
the Bank on account of principal of loans made by the  charges contained in the complaint and has been advised
Bank out of such currencies may be exchanged for other  by trial counsel that the suit is without merit. At June 30,
currencies or reloaned, only with the approval in each case  1951 there was no other litigation pending against the
of the member whose currency is involved; provided,    Bank.
[63 



APPENDIX G
Opinion of Independent Auditor
PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO.
1000 VERMONT AVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON 5, D. C.
July 23, 1951
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT,
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 1951.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted audit-
ing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes thereto,
present fairly the financial position of the Bank at June 30, 1951, expressed
in United States currency, and the results of its operations for the twelve
months then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1951                         APPENDIX A
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the
Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1950 and June 30, 1951    APLENDIX B
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1951                    APPENDIX C
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1951    APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting
Power-June 30, 1951                             APPENDIX E
Notes to Financial Statements                       APPENDIX F
[64 ]



APPENDIX 1H
Administrative Budget
for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1952
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1952, as prepared by the
;  ,      President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. For purposes of
comparison there are also outlined below the administrative expenses incurred during the fiscal years ended June 30,
1949, 1950 and 1951.
Actual ExPees                            Budget
1949              1950                1951               1952
BANK STAFF
Personal Services .................. $2,377,602          $2,396,389          $2,547,169         $2,921,000
Fees and Compensation ............. ,19,694                  20,273              55,119             40,000
Special Technical Services   ............  -                313,500            382,340             375,000
Representation ........                   20,739             38,534             43,504              41,000
Travel ...... .. ..                      243,810            326,130             358,252            360,000
Supplies and Materials ....... .......    25,531             26,320             42,130              44,500
Rents and Utilities .................    327,860            335,093            335,040             364,000
Communications .......... ........        78,733             88,564            101,575             108,000
Furniture and Equipment ...... ......     31,302             26,097              28,791             29,800
Motor Vehicles ...... ...........          6,486               5,335             10,843              5,000
Books and Library Service ...........     63,821             59,707              56,554             59,500
Printing .........................        32,638             35,436              50,001             51,000
Contributions to Staff Benefits .........    270,577        266,126            300,322             349,200
Insurance ........................        11,312             14,644              29,040             21,000
Other Expenses ........                    7,584               2,201              1,001
Contingencies     ............             ,                                                       100,000
Total ........................$ 3,657,689            $3,954,349         $4,341,681          $4,869,000
Office of Executive Directors .....   ......    325,336       322,804             278,630            269,000
Board of Governors and Advisory Council.    85,582              92,858            223,136             95,000
Total Administrative Expenses .......... $4,068,607         $4,370,011         $4,843,447         $5,233,000
Expenses during the past year for bond registration, issuance and other sirnilar financial transactions amounted to
$953,872. These expenses have not been estimated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1952, as the extent to which the
Bank may borrow during this next year is not known. Experience during previous years indicates that these expenses,
exclusive of commissions, premiums and discounts will average about $125,000 for each $100 million of bonds which
the Bank may issue and, also, that commissions incident to the sale of securities from the Bank's portfolio will average
$2,500 for each rnillion dollars of securities which the Bank may sell.
[ 65



APPENDIXI
Yoting Power and Subscriptions of Mem -er Countries
As of June 30, 1951
V-Ng PwrSts~bSritzMons
MEMBER COUJNTRIES                                          votes         yTat;i         of DolJars)       'o~
... ... .. ... ... ..  .  . . ..2,2 5 0                      2.35           20`0.00          2.4`0
A  ..... ...... ............                     750             .78                              60.
..... ..... ..   . ..... ..... ....2,500              2.62           225.0            27
BlVia..................                   .               320             .34              7.0            .08
Brazil    .......... .. .....1,300                                         1.36            105.0-          1.26
Q~anqa..................3,500                                              3.66           325.0            3.90
Cey'nn                                      ~~~       ~     ~~~~~~400  .42   15.0            .18
Lh~de   ,  ........ .......  .......600                      .63             35.0            .42
Chna.................6,250                                                6.54           600.0            7 1 9
C ol, orn bi  . .... ... .   .. ... .... ... ...600          .63            35.C             .42
Rice-                            .....270                              .28              2.              .2
...... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....600                  .63            35.0            .A2
1oka........-......1,500                                         1.57           125.0            1.50
....... ...... ....  .. ......930                     .97            68,0            .81
Domnian Republic..............270                                           .28              2.0            .02
E ." 7a cd or   .......      --......282                                    .30              3.2            .04
_ py   ...................783                                              .82             53.3            .64
El Salvador..................260                                            .27              1.0            .0i
Et-hiopia ..................280                                             .29              3.0            .04
Finland    ..................630                                            .66             38.0            .45
France...................5,500                                             5.75            525.0           6,3C
rec........... .                    ....C0                               5             2'.0,
Gixatema!a ..............,,...               ,              270             .28              2.              02
7ijnu-as......   ...  .......,.,...                    26,0            .27              1.0            .0i
......   . .......260                   .27             1.0.0
..... .....I- -  . ..... ....4,250                 4.44           400.             4.80
.     .     ......    .......    ......    ......  586.61               33.6             .40
0.~~~~......              ....    ..310                                .33             6.0             .07
.......  ......                     2~~~.050         2.14           180.0            2  1
........    ~ ~ ~  ~    ~~ 5                           3 1            4.5              0
......  .........   ......0                      3.14           275.0            3.30
....................                                   258             .27               .8            .01
N ctway  ..................750                                              .78             50.0            .60
Pakistan...................1,250                                           1.31           100.0            1.20
Panama ..................252                                                .26              .2*
RP~raguay~.........                    ...                  264              . 28            1.4            .02
P,--,  ... ..... .  - -...    . .... .   ... ....425         A44             1 7,5           .21
P`i:i~Ppines..................400                                           .42             15.0            .18
Syria...........                                            315             .33              6,5            .08
Thailand...........                       ...375                             .;3g           12.5            .15
Turkey........                   .......                    680             .71            43.0             .52
Unilon of South ALfri-a... .... ,.... ,,1,250                            1.31           100.0            1.20
United Kingdom  .,........................              13,250           13.85          1,300.0          15.59
United States................                            32,000           33.46          3,175.0          38.08
Uruguay .....355                                                            .37             10.5            .13
Venezuela.................                                  3 55            .37            10.5             .13
Yugoslavia.....  -1- ...                                    65 0             .68            40.0            .48
Total ...,............                               95,635          100 00         8,338.5          100.00
Less than .005 percent. 
L 663



APPENDIX J
Governors and Alternates
As of June 30, 1951
COUNTRY                                      GOVERNOR                            ALTERNATE
AUSTRALIA                               Arthur William Fadden                    N. J. 0. Makin
AUSTRIA                                 Eugen Margaretha                         Assen Hartenau
BELGIUM                                 Jean van Houtte                          Maurice Frere
BOLIVIA                                 Hector Ormachea Zalles                   Jaime Gutierrez Guerra
BRAZIL                                  Eugenio Gudin                            Octavio Paranagua
CANADA                                  D. C. Abbott                             R. B. Bryce
CEYLON                                  J. R. Jayawardene                        G. C. S. Corea
CHILE                                   Arturo Maschke                           Fernando Illanes
CHINA                                   Chia Kan Yen                             Te-Mou Hsi
COLOMBIA                                Emilio Toro                              Diego Mejia
COSTA RICA                              Angel Coronas                            Mario Fernandez
CUBA                                    Luis Machado                             Joaquin E. Meyer
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                          Jaroslav Docekal                         Zikmund Konecny
DENMARK                                 Svend Nielsen                            Hakon Jespersen
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                      Wenceslao Troncoso                       Milton Messina
ECUADOR                                 Luis Ernesto Borja                      Ramon de Ycaza
EGYPT                                   Ahmed Zaki Saad Pasha                    A. Nazmy Abdel Hamid
EL SALVADOR                             Catalino Herrem                          Luis Escalante-Arce
ETHIOPIA                                Jack Bennett                             Ato Menassie Lemma
FINLAND                                 Artturi Lehtinen                         Ralf Torngren
FRANCE                                  Minister of Finance                      Pierre Mendes-France
GREECE                                  George Mavros                            Gregorios Zarifopoulos
GUATEMALA                               Manuel Noriega Molaes                    Carios Leonidas Acevedo
HONDURAS                                Rafael Heliodoro Valle                   Guillermo Lopez Rodezno
ICELAND                                 Jon Arnason                              Thor Thors
INDIA                                   Sir Chintaman D. Deshmukh                Sir B. Rama Rau
IRAN                                    Ibrahim Zend                             Morharraf Naficy
IRAQ                                    Seyed Ata Amin                           Abdul-Ghani Al-Dalli
ITALY                                   Donato Menichella                        Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
LEBANON                                 Charles Malik                            Raja Himadeh
LUXEMBOURG                              Pierre Dupong                            Pierre Werner
MEXICO                                  Carlos Novoa                             Raul Martinez-Ostos
NETHERLANDS                             P. Lieftinck                             A. M. de Jong
NICARAGUA                               Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa                 Alfredo J. Sacasa
NORWAY                                  Gunnar Jahn                              Ole Colbjornsen
PAKISTAN                                Ghulam Mohammed                          Anwar Ali
PANAMA                                  Rodolfo F. Herbruger                     Julio E. Heurtematte
PARAGUAY                                Juan R. Chaves                           Victor A. Pane
PERU                                    Fernando Berckemeyer                       --
PHILIPPINES                             Miguel Cuaderno, Sr.                     Emilio Abello
SYRIA                                   Husni A. Sawwaf                          Nihad Ibrahim Pasha
THAILAND                                Prince Viwat                             Kajit Kasemsri
TURKEY                                  Nurullah Esat Sumer                      Nahit Alpar
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA                   N. C. Havenga                            M. 1H de Kock
UNITED KINGDOM                          Hugh Gaitskell                           Sir Henry Wilson-Smith
UNITED STATES                           John W. Snyder                           james F. Webb
URUGUAY                                 Carlos Quijano                           Nilo Berchesi
VENEZUELA                               Manuel Reyna                             Carlos M. Lollet C.
YUGOSLAVIA                              Lavoslav Dolinsek                        Dragoslav Avramovic
[67]



APPENDIX K
Executive Directors and Alterates and Their Voting Power
As of June 30, 1951
VOTES BY        TOTAL
DIRECTORS                 ALTERNATES               CASTING VOTES Oy            COUNTRY         VOTES
Appointed
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr.      John S. Hooker               United States                  32,000       32,000
Sir Ernest Rowe-Dutton    Sir Sydney Caine             United Kingdom                 13,250        13,250
Yueh-Lien Chang           Tsoo-Whe Chu                 China                           6,250         6.250
Roger Hoppenot                                         France                          5,500         5,500
B. K. Nehru               D. S. Savkar                 India                           4,250         4,250
Elected
Thomas Basyn              Ernest de Sellier            Belgium                         2,500 
(Belgium)                 (Belgiam)                    Denmark                           930        4,4iO
Finland                          630~         ,1
Luxembourg                       350
Manuel Jose Diez          Julio E. Heurtematte         Mexico                            900
(Panama)                  (Panama)                     Cuba                              60o
Philippines                      400
Uruguay                          355
Venezuela                        355
Costa Rica                       270      4,180
Dominican Repubic                2-70
El Salvador                      260 i
Honduras                         260
Nicaragua                        258
panama                           252
Guillermo Perez Chiriboga  Eduardo Salazar             Brazil                          l,.30 0
(Ecu1ador)                (Ecuador)                    Chile                             6001
Colombia                         600
Peru                             425
Bolivia                           20 .
Ecuador                          28 2
Guatemala                        27C0
Paraguay                         264i
Louis Rasminsky           J. F. Parkinson              Canada                          3,500 L
(Canada)                  (Canada)                     Iceland                           260J
J. W. Beyen               Thoralf Svendsen             Netherlands                     3,00|         3 750
(Netherlands)             (Norway)                     Norway                            75Q
Yaqub Shah                Nasrollah Djahanguir         Pakistan                        1,250
(Pakistan)                (Iran)                       Egypt
Iran                               3,:
Syria                            3'
Iraq31 
Lebanon                          29-f
Leslie Galfreid Melville  L. H. E. Bury                Australia                       2,25          3:500
(Australia)               (Australia)                  Union of South Ag- c0
Costantino Bresciani-Turroni *Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza  Italy                           2,050
(Italy)                   (Itly)                       Austria                           750        3,300
Greece                           500!J
Cabir Selek               Boonma Wongswan              Turkey                            680
(Turkey)                  (Thailand)                   Yugoslavia                       6''0 '
Ceylon                           400         28.35
Thailand                          375
* Acting temporarily.                                  Ethiopia                            0 J
Member country unrepresented by an Executive Director: Czechoslovakia with 1,5CC :
[68 3



APPENDIX K
In addition to the Executive Directors and Alternates shown on the foregoing list. the following also served as
Alternates since the effective date of the Third Regular Election:
ALTERNATE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                              Date of Resigatliop
Kuo-Hwa Yu (China)                                   January 2, 1951
Raul Diez de Medina (Bolivia)                        February 28, 195 1
J. M. Garland (Australia)                            March 11. 1951
-  .                  Gunnar Kjoistad (Noruway)                             April 30, 1951
[69]



APPENDIX L
Principal Officers of the Bank
As of June 30, 1951
Eugene R. Black. .. .......                                                 President
Robert L. Garner ............................                       . Vice President
William  A. B. Iliff ............ ............. Assistant to President
A. S. G. Hoar .......................                   ..           Loan Director
D. Crena de Iongh .............. .                                   ,  . . Treasurer
Leonard B. Rist           ................ . Economic Director
Davidson Sommers    .                     .         ...           General Counsel
M. M. Mendels .............. ...                          ,     . , .Secretary
George L. Martin .              . ............  ... .. Director of Marketing
Chauncey G. Parker  ............ ........  Director of Administration
Harold N. Graves, Jr ................ .. . .         Director of Public Relations
Richard H. Demuth ............  ..... Assistant to the Vice President
[ 70 ]



