.4.                                 -                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fi
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
--95     M-w ~          _____________ 



THE WORLD BANK
ANNUAL REPORT 1994
The World Bank
M     Washington, D.C. 20433



2
Photo Credits
Cover: Francois Charron
Page 10: Antonia Macedo
Page 78: Francois Cacrron
Page 81:Jan Post
Page 92: Antonia Macede
Page 97: Francois Charron
Page 103: Ephirn Schluger
Page 109: Jan Post
Page 120: Perer Muncie
Cover:
This girl lives near ithe Guatemala high-country
village of Solala near Lake Atittan. Known as the
'jewel of the highlands," the lake has generated
incomefrom tourism and allowed the villagers to
become relatively prosperous The child has trav-
eled to the market with her parents and is waiting
at the bus plaza to travel home.
Cover design by Joyce C. Petnezzi
ISSN: 0252-2942
ISBN: 0-4213-2545-0



3
Letter of Transmittal
This Annual Report, which covers the period   pay tribute to the dedication of Bank staff, who
July 1, 1993, to June 30, 1994, has been pre-   for five decades have served to make the world
pared by the executive directors of both the   a better place in which to live. Enormous de-
International Bank for Reconstruction and De-   velopment challenges remain; the directors
velopment (LBRD) and the International Devel-  are confident that they will be addressed with
opment Association (IDA) in accordance with   enthusiasm and professionalism equal to that
the respective by-laws of the two institutions.   given in the past.
Lewis T. Preston, president of the IBRD and  Annual Reports for the International Fi-
IDA and chairmn of the boards of executive   nance Corporation (IEC), the Multilateral In-
directors, has submitted this Report, together   vestment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the
with accompanying administrative budgets and   International Centre for Settlement of Invest-
audited financial statements, to the board of   ment Disputes (ICSID) are published sepa-
governors.                                rately.
During this, the Fifieth Anniversary year of
the founding of the Bank, the directors wish to
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                       ALTERNATES
Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf                       Ibrahim M. Al-Mofleh
Faisal A. Al-Khaled                       Mohamed W. Hosny
Aris Othman                               Jannes Hutagalung
Marc-Antoine Autheman                     Jer6me Haas
Mohamed Benhocine                         Abdul Karim Lodhi
Andrei Bugrov                             Alexander N. Doumnov
John H. Cosgrove                          Bong-Hee Won
Robert R. de Cotret                       Hubert Dean
Marcos Caramuru de Paiva                  Marcela Cartagena
Huw Evans                                 David Stanton
Fritz Fischer                             Harld Rehm
Nicolas Flafio                            Julio Nogues
Jean-Daniel Gerber                        Jan Sulmicki
Enzo Grilli                               Helena Cordeiro
Eveline Herfkens                          Beana Ionescu
Ruth Jacoby                               Helga Jonsdottir
Bimal Jalan                               M.A. Syed
Yasuyuki Kawahara                         Rintaro Tamaki
Jean-Pierre Le Bouder                     Ali Bourhane
O.K. Matambo                              Hary M. Mapondo
Jan Piercy                                (vacant)
Walter Rill                               Nurcan Akturk
Angel Torres                              Gabriel Castellanos
Wang Liansheng                            Zhang Shengman
August 2, 1994



4
The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA
The World Bank is a multilateral develop-   cies, and other multilateral institutions are
ment institution whose purpose is to assist its  increasingly being paired with World Bank
developing member countries further their eco-   funds to cofinance projects. The World Bank
nomic and social progress so that their people   also provides loans to help developing coun-
may live better and fuller lives. The term   tries adjust their economic policies and struc-
"World Bank" refers to two legally and finan-  tures in the face of structural problems that
cially distinct entities: the International Bank   threaten continuing development.
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)  The International Finance Corporation
and the International Development Associa-   (FC), an affiliate of the World Bank, seeks to
tion (IDA). The IBRD and IDA have three re-   promote growth in the private sector of devel-
lated functions: to lend funds, to provide   oping countries by mobilizing foreign and do-
economic advice and technical assistance, and   mestic capital to invest alongside its own funds
to serve as a catalyst to investment by others.  in commercial enterprises.
The IBRD finances its lending operations  The Multilateral Investment Guarantee
primarily from borrowings in the world capital   Agency (MIGA), also an affiliate of the World
markets. IDA extends assistance to the poorest   Bank, was established in 1988 to encourage di-
countries on easier terns, largely from re-   rect foreign investment in developing countries
sources provided by its wealthier members.   by protecting investors from noncommercial
Funds from such other sources as govern-   risk, especially risk of war or repatriation.
ments, commercial banks, export-credit agen-



Contents   5
Contents
Letter of Transmital 3
World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA 4
Glossary 7
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1994 11
Section One. The Executive Board 16
Section Tno. The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective 23
Section Three. Major World Bank Progam  Fical Year 19!4  33
Human Resources Development 33
Environmentally Sustainable Development 42
Financial and Private Sector Development 50
Section Four. World Bank OperatioEn Fscal Year 1994  56
Disbursements 56
Technical Assistance  68
Cofinancing 69
Inproving Portfolio Management, Accountability, and Openness 73
Secton FiLve. 1994 Regional Perspectives 79
Africa 79
East Asia and Pacific 88
South Asia 95
Europe and Central Asia 101
Latin America and the Caribbean 107
Middle East and North Africa 114
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD, IDA, and Trust Fund for Gaza Assistance in
Fiscal 1994 122
Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1994. by Region and
Country 144
Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1992-94 147
Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1994, by Sector  148
Section Six. Other World Bank Group Services and Actvities 154
Operations Evaluation 154
Internal Auditing I5
Economic Development Institute 156
Research at the World Bank 158
The Administrative Budget and Bank Administration 160
International Finance Corporation 163
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 164
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes 165
Section Seven. World Bank Finances  166



6   Contents
Finandal Statements of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 173
Financial Statements of International Development Association and the Special Fund Administered
by IDA 195
IBRD/IDA Appendices
I Governors and Alternates of the World Bank 212
2 Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank and Their Voting Power 216
3  Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank  218
4 Offices of the World Bank 221
5  IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and Region  228
6 IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor 230
7 Statement of IBRD Loans Approved dining Fiscal Year 1994 234
8 Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1994 240
9 Current IBRD, IDA, and Blend Borrowers 245
10 Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal Year 1994 246
EIdex 251
Boxes
The Bank, Age 50, Looks to the Next Century 12
2-1 The Uruguay Round, Market Access, and the Developing Countries 31
3-1  Iigher Education-Lessons of Experience  34
3-2 Review of Projects Involving Involutary Resettlement 44
3-3 Private Sector Assessments 51
3-4 Managing Energy 53
4-1 Independent lnspection Panel is Established 74
4-2 Public Access to Bank Information Expands 75
4-3 The World Bank's Experience with Governance 76
4-4 Increasing the Reliability of Rating Project Effectiveness 77
5-1  Implementation of Economic Reforn: Overview and Seven Case Studies  82
5-2 Toward Better Health in Africa 85
5-3 China: Continuing Reform and Development 89
5-4  The East Asian Miracle  89
5-5 Lending to Viet Nam Resumes; Is Initiated in Cambodia 91
5-6 Privatization Progress in the Russian Federation 104
5-7 Pension Reform in Latin America 112
5-8  The World Bank and the Occupied Territories  116
7-1  IDA's Ninth Replenishment Period (Fiscal 1991-93)  170



7
Glossary
Agenda 21 The main operational product of   utive directors; it has traditionally served as a
the United Nations Conference on Environ-   forum in which preliminary discussion of issues
ment and Development (UNCED), Agenda 21   takes place before they are taken up by the ex-
is an ambitious action plan covering over 100   ecutive board. It is also the forum in which the
progr-am areas (climate, desertification, sus-   executive directors act as a preparatory body
tainable agriculture, for example) integrating   for the work of the Development Committee.
environment and development, to be sup-
ported by new and additional financial re-   CuheBnan swaps Currency swaps are used by
sources, improved access on favorable terms   the Bank as a liability-management tool and es-
to euvironmentally sound technology, and   sentially involve an exchange of a stream of
strengthened institutional capacity in develop-   principal and interest payments in one cur-
ing countries. States were called upon to pre-   rency for a stream in another currency. The
pare national sustainable development plans   Bank uses currency swaps to obtain borrow-
outlining their own environmental problems as   ings in the ultimately desired 'target" cur-
well as their strategies, programs, and priori-  rency at below cost of a market borrowing in
ties for implementing Agenda 21. UNCED    that currency.
agreed that financing should be assembled to   Deelopment Committee This committee is
support these programs through a variety of ex-   known formally as the Joint Ministerial Com-
istng, rather than new, funding mechanisms.   inittee of the Boards of Governors of the World
"Brady" operations Named after a March   Bank and the International Monetary Fund on
1989 initiativc by then-U.S. Secretary of the   the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing
Treasury Nicholas Brady who proposed that   Countries. Established in October 1974, the
countries with sound adjustment problems   conmittee currently consists of twenty-four
should get access to debt- and debt-service re-   members, generally Ministers of Fmance, ap-
duction facilities supported by international fi   pointed for periods of two years by one of the
nancial institutions and official creditors. It   countries or a group of countries that desig-
represented a shift in the intemational commu-   nates a member of the Bank's or the Interna-
nity's debt strategy from supporting adjust-  tional Monetary Fund's board of executive
ment with concerted new lending to supporting   directors. The committee is required to advise
adjustment with debt- and debt-service reduc-   and report to the boards of governors of the
tion.                                     two institutions on all aspects of the broad
question of the transfer of real resources to de-
"Brown" environmental agenda Refers to the   veloping countries and to make suggestions for
immediate ana most cntical environmental   their implementation.
problems facing cities and includes three main
areas-energy use and efficiency, urban and in-   "2-nhanced" Toronto terms A menu of Paris
dustrial pollution control, and urban environ-   Club concessions for low-income countries,
mental management.                       initiated in 1991, comprises two options pro-
Central bank faclility A facility used by the   viding for deeper debt reduction plus the non-
IBRD to raise short-bte   United Staes-ollar   concessional option from the old Toronto
debt by offeringto central bankcs and othergov-   terms. The concessional options amount to 50
edinent organizations of member countnres a   percent forgiveness in present-value terms on
cmmnt-YersUnited States-dollar denominated   debt-service payments falling due during the
one-year,                                 cnisted te    deinominated   consolidation period. Enhanced Toronto terms
variable-rate instrument. The interest rate is   also provide for a third nonconcessional op-
adjusted monthly on the yield of the one-year   tion: consolidation at market rates, with a re-
U.S. Treasury bill plus a spread.         payment period of twenty-five years, including
Committee of the Whole The Committee of   a fourteen-year grace period. This option was
the Whole is a committee made up of all exec-   adopted by the United States and some smaller



8   Glossary
creditor countries that were, at the time, un-   OMcial development assistance (ODA) Finan-
able to adopt debt cancellation for non-ODA    cial aid to developing countries and multilateral
debt.                                     institutions provided by official agencies, or by
Forward foreign exchange market Allows for   their executive agencies. ODA is administered
the sale or purchase of foreign currency for de-   with the promotion of the economic develop-
ferred rather than immediate delivery.    ment and welfare of developing countries as its
main objective, is concessional in character,
G-7 countries Canada, France, Germany,   and contains a grant element of at least 25 per-
Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the   cent.
United States
Panel data set Is one composed of both timc
"Green" environmental agenda Refers to the   series and cross-section observations. The re-
promotion of sustainable natural resource man-   sulting data base is a gold mine of analytical
agement and the reduction of resource   information relative to the much more common
degradation, and includes agriculture and land   cross-sectional base.
management, forest management, water-
resource and watershed management, marine   Paris Club The Paris Club is the name given
and coastal zone management, and biodiver-  to the ad hoc meetings of creditor governments
sity conservation.                        that, since 1956, have arranged, when neces-
sary, for the renegotiation of debt owed to of-
ICOR (incremental capital-output ratio) An   ricial creditors or guaranteed by them. (Debts
aggregate measure of the efficiency of invest-  to commercial banks are renegotiated with
ment. It shows the amount of investment re-   committees of the banks involved.) The World
quired to produce an annual income stream of   Bank is not a member of the Paris Club.
one dollar. The lower the ICOR, the more ef-
ficient the investment.                   Social-action programs Social-action pro-
lIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate)   grams and social funds consist of multisectoral
LIBOR is(therateatwhichnajorebanks in e    operations that mobilize several sources or fi-
don are willing to lend in a specific currency   nancing to fund special interventions and tar-
or currency unit to other banks. It is used as a   geted projects seeking to alleviate the social
base rate for many international interest-rate   costs of adjustment, as wel as poverty in gen-
transactions.                             eral. The project components that typically get
financed include public works, severance pay-
Low-income countries Are those countries   ments, retraining, and schemes in nutrition,
with a GNP per capita of $675 or less in 1992   primary health, and primary education. While
United States-dollar terms.               the objectives and project content of social-
Mezzanine flnancng Has two separate mean-   action programs and social fuinds are similar,
ings, one having to do with the type of finance,  they differ in their institutional set-up. Social
the other with the stage a company has   funds finance small, demand-driven sub-
rcached. It is the second sense that applies to   projects and often bypass existing bureaucratic
mezzanine finance funds supported by the lFC:   systems and procedures; funding commitments
risk capital made available to unlisted compa-   are often based on the evaluation of project
nies to support development and expansion   proposals prepared according to predeter-
programs, in anticipation of the companies' be-   mined selection criteria Social-action program
ing listed.                               subprojects are typically appraised by the
World Bank. Whereas social funds are most
Middle-income countries Are those countries   often parastatal quasi-financial institutions,
with a GNP per capita of more than $675 but   social-action programs generally cover a
less than $8,356 in 1992 United States-dollar   broader array of institutional arrangements,
terms.                                    such as quasi-autonomous project dnits or in-
Negative-pledge clause  Negative-pledge   tegration into sectoral ministries.
clauses are concerned with the grnting of se-   Social fund (See social-action programs)
curity interests by a borrower over its assets to
its creditors. By the terms of such a clause, the   SPA-eligible country  Country eligibility is de-
borrower agrees with a creditor or group of   termined on the basis of poverty (countries
creditors to restrictions on its granting, or oth-   cannot be eligible for IBRD loans), indebted-
erwise permitting to exist, security interests in   ness (countries have to have projected debt-
favor of other creditors. Negative-pledge   service ratios of 30 percent or more, and efforts
clauses are usually standard in Bank loan doc-   to adjust (countries have to be currently imple-
umnents. They may be waived on a case-by-case   menting a policy-reform program that is en-
basis, however.                           dorsed and normally supported by the Bank



Glossary   9
and the International Monetary Fund, and   debt in low-income, debt-distressed countries.
agreement has to be reached on a policy frame-   The terns, agreed upon in September 1988 (fol-
work paper).                               lowing agreement in principle at the economic
Special drawing rights (SDRs) The special   summit held in Toronto three months earlier),
drawing right is a reserve asset created in 1968   include reduced interest, very long grace and
by the International Monetary Fund for use by   repayment periods (at commercial rates), or
its members and certain prescribed institu-   partial write-offs of debt-service obligations
tions, among which are multilateral develop-   during the consolidation period (with the rest
ment banks and the Bank for International   reschcduled at commercial mtes and shor
Settlements. Its value is calculated daily by us-   maturities), or a combination of these options.
ing a weighted basket of the currencies of the   Vehicle currency  A currency in which the
G-5 countries (France, Germany, Japan, the   Bank borrows and simultaneously enters into a
United Kingdom, and the United States).    currency swap in order to convert the "vehi-
Structured notes Those for which the returns   cle" currency liability into a liability denomi-
are linked so interest and/or exchange rate in-   nated in a"other currency (a so-called 'target"
dices.                                     cuffency").
Toronto terns Toronto terms refer to a menu
of options that can be chosen to reduce official



10
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
- -        a",'-
*~~~~~~~~~                                      ar -    IX
W   v                  -*-E
K                                            S-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| _   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -\. ,,r - B
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-le~~~~~~~~~ 
a   --   -l* 82:l^4 i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-
,:'''' '4  -' '          ' -
S8S   E'~~~~~ i-- #          !' '       '        ' ,,__.~~z! "nI-
* l          '        ,I(               ' ttS 
School chilldren in Guiling, a city in the southern province of Gusangxi. In China, equal education is provided
to girlskfrom the eartiest age.



,,                                 , ,_,                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
Overview of World Bank Activities
in Fiscal 1994
The fundamental objective of the World    ing an integrated poverty-reduction effort in
Bank is to support the reduction of poverty in    country-assistance strategies; completion of,
its member countries. During fiscal 1994, the    and improvements to, poverty assessments for
Bank continued to make progress-through its    all borrowers; and development of poverty-
lending operations and a strengthened policy    monitoring systems and expansion of coun-
dialogue-in  implementing the poverty-    tries' capacity to implement them.
reduction strategies first outlined in World De-   Most recently, the Bank has placed less em-
velopment Report 1990 and subsequently    phasis on the growth of its portfolio and more
elaborated in a policy paper and associated op-    on its quality. This shift grew out of the 1992
erational documents.                             report of the Task Force on Portfolio Manage-
A report on poverty reduction, discussed by    ment, which identified certain aspects of Bank
the executive board in April 1994, concluded    practice that either may have contributed to
that progress was being made in implementing    portfolio-management problems or were insuf-
the Bank's poverty-reduction strategy-in the    ficiently effective in resolving them. Steps
Bank's lending operations, in country-    were taken in fiscal 1994to incorporate the task
assistance strategies and the policy dialogue,   force's recommendations so as to make the
and in strengthening poverty analyses. The re-    Bank more effective in pursuing its basic goal
port noted, however, that several challenges    of reducing poverty in borrowing countries.
had to be addressed in the Bank's future           As the core of its action plan, the Bank in-
poverty-reduction work. They include ensur-   troduced a country-by-country approach,
Operational and Financial Overview, Fiscal 1990-4
(millions of US dollars unless otherwise notcd; fiscal ycars)
Item                                 1990         1991        1992        1993         1994
mRD
Commitments                          15,180      16,392       15,156      16,945       14,244
Disbursements                        13,859      11,431       11,666      12,942       10,447
Net disbursements8                    5,726       2,109        1,833       2,331        -731
New medium- to long-term
borrowings                         11,481      10,883       11,789      12,676        8,908
Net income                            1,046       1,200        1,645       1,130        1,051
Subscnrbed capital                 W12,262      139,120      152,248     165,589      170,003
Statutory lending limit             137,046     152,327      168,369     183,312      189,189
Loans outstanding                    89,052      90,638      100,810     104,451      109,291
Kes ratis
Loans outstanding as a percentage
of lending limit                      65           59          60           57          58
Intercst coverage ratio                1.17        1.17         1.24        1.16         1.16
Liquidity ratio (percent)               47           51          48           48          51
Reserves-to-loans ratiob               10.8        11.2         11.7        11.7         13.9
IDA
Comm;itments                          5,549       6,293        6,550       6,751        6,592
Disbursements                         3,931       4,549        4,765       4,947        5,532
Net disbursementse                    3,713       4,274        4,441       4,581        5,110
a. Amounts include disbursements, repayments, and prepayments tofirom all members, induding third party rpayments.
b. Includes amount aDocated to reserves for prefimding of inktrest waives.



12   Ovevlew of World Bank ActMlles In Fiscal 1994
rather than a project-by-project approach, into   extra expenditures incurred in involving bene-
the management of its ongoing lending opera-   ficiaries in project preparation and ih economic
tions. To complement the changes it made in its   and sector work. The initial monies allocated to
own policies and practices, the Bank is collab-   the fund were fully committed by November,
orating with the authorities in borrowing coun-    and additional amounts were allocated in
tries to review the performance of the portfolio    March 1994. Involving beneficiaries in project
in each country and resolve systemic prob-   preparation is now beginning to become normal
lems. These and other measures are helping the    Bank procedure.
Bank take a much more strategic view of its     Cooperation between the Bank and nongov-
$148 billion loan portfolio ($107 billion, 982    ernmental organizations (NGOs) continued to
projects. IBRD: $41 billion, 915 projects, IDA).   expand in terms of bo:h lending operations and
According to a report on the progress of activ-   the policy dialogue throughout the year. In-
ities designed to improve the management of   creased collaboration was clearly exhibited at
the development programs and projects the   the Conference on Actions to Reduce Hunger
Bank finances, steady and substantial progress    Worldwide that was convened by the Bank in
has been made during the past year towards    November 1993. In addition to participating in
sharpening the focus on implementation and on    presentations and discussion, NGOs assisted
a performing portfolio. The report adds, how-   in the conference's preparatory and follow-up
ever, that more remains to be done, for the ac-   work.
tion plan is not a set of one-time activities;  During the year, steps were taken to increase
rather, it is a process that is expected to take   the Bank's accountability and openness:
years before it is satisfactorily completed.    In September 1993, the executive board of
The Bank is also devoting more energy and   the Bank established an independent Inspec-
resources to fostering stakeholder participation    tion Panel, which will receive and investigate
during project preparation. In June 1993, a Par-   complaints that the Bank has not followed its
ticipation Fund was established to finance    own policies and procedures with respect to
The Bank, Age 50, Looks to the Next Century
Fifty years ago, in July 1944, the World Bank was   economicaly and socially and how far it stiU has
conceived at the United Nations Monetary and   to go.
Financial Conference held in Bretton Woods,    In the developing countries, average life ex-
New Hampshire. United States of America.   pectancy has increased by about 50 percent; the
Representatives of forty-four nations assem-   proportion of children attending school has risen
bled there established two complementary   from less than half to more than three quarters;
financial institutions-the Bank and the Interna-   and average income per person has more than
tional Monetary Fund.                      doubled. The Bank-through its support for mor
This is what the report of Commission II (in-   than 5,000 projects in about 140 countries-has
ternational Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-   contnbuted to this pmgress.
opment) to tl'e Executive Plenary Session    Enormous challenges remain, however. They
(United Nations Monetary and Financial Confer-  include reducing poverty for the more than I bil-
ence) wrote about the Bank in that sv mer of   lion reople who struggle to survive on about a
1944:                                      dollar a day and providing basic sanitation, clean
"The creation of the Bank was an entirely new    water, health care, and schooling for those lack-
venture.... So novel was it, that no name could   ing access to these basic services. Most countres
be found for it. Insofar as we can talk of capital   in sub-Saharan Africa have been mired in lack-
subscriptions, loans, guarantees, issue of bonds,  luster or declining rates of growth for more than
the new financial institution may have some ap-   a decade. The problems associated with eco-
parent Jaim to the name of Bank. But the typc of   nomic transformation in Central and Eastern Eu-
shareholders, the nature of subscriptions, the ex-   rope and the former Soviet Union have proved to
clusion of all deposits and short-term loans, the   be extremely complex. And new challenges are
non-profit basis, are quite foreign to the accepted   coming to the fore, in South Africa and the West
nature of a Bank. However, it was accidentally   Bank and Gaza, for example.
born with the name Bank, and Bank it remains,    -In a number of ways, the Bank is uniquely
mainly because no satisfactory name could be   placed to help address these challenges. Most im-
found in the dictionary for this unprecedented in-   portant is its fifty years of experience in working
stitution."                                on almost every kind of development issue in al-
Reflection on the experience of the past fifty    most every developing country. F-rom that exp-
years highlights how far the world has progressed   rience has come lessons learned over the years:



Overview of World Bank Activlles In Fiscal 1994   13
the design, appraisal, and/or implementation of   lending operations continued to be significant.
a developmenr project that it supports. The    In fiscal 1994, resources spent on economic
panel will be functionally independent and will   and sector work were about 19 percent of the
report directly to the board. In April 1994, the   total. On an ongoing basis for all borrowers,
three members of the panel werc appointed.    the Bank is engaged in preparing or updating
In January 1994, the Bank expanded public   poverty assessments, private sector assess-
access to operational information by opening a    ments, environmental assessments, national
Public Information Center at the Bank's head-   environmental action plans, and country-
quarters in Washington, D.C. that aims to pro-   assistance strategies for discussion by the ex-
vide timely and relevant information about the    ecutive directors.
Bank's present and future plans by allowing     Thcse and other economic and sector anal-
public access to previously restricted docu-   yses are designed to deepen the Bank's under-
ments. The information is also available   standing on development issues, improve the
through Bank offices in London, Paris, Tokyo,   impact of its operations, and enhance policy-
and through the institution's many field offices.   reform efforts. They are particularly important
The public can also use the Internet computer   for the Bank's newest member countries,
network to access project information docu-   where there continues to be a need for consid-
ments and to view (and order) the titles of all   erable investment in analytical work prior to
Bank documents available on request, as well   expanding technical assistance and lending
as the abstracts and entire text of selected doc-   programs. Furthermore, through the three
uments. Greater transparency is essential to    new thematic vice presidencies, the Bank is
explain the Bank's work to the various stake-   evaluating best practices in human resources
holders and thereby increase understanding of   development, environmentally sustainable de-
and support for Bank-supported activities.    velopment, and financial and private sector de-
Resources devoted to the many types of non-   velopment and is disseminating them to both
lending activities that serve to underpin future   staff and extemal audiences.
that people are both the means and ends of   responding to borrower needs and facilitating
development; that sustained commitment to   their participation in the design and implementa-
sound macroeconomic policy is vital; that insti-  tion of Bank-supported programs; looking be-
tutional capacity is a major determinant of   yond lending commitments and concentrating on
progress; and that economic growth should be   results in the field, ensuring that scarce develop-
broad-based and enviromnentally sustainable to    ment resources are spent wisely and efficiently,
reduce poverty effectively.                and maintaining its high standing in the financial
Of fundamental importance, through decades   markets.
of experience in designing and implementing in-  The Bank's record in fostering economic de-
vestment projects, the Bank has become a trusted    velopment over the past half century has been
adviser on development-sharing its global expe-   aided in no small part by its ability to respond
rience of what does and does not work-and help-   quickly and flexibly to the ever-changing environ-
ing its member countries apply those lessons.  ment in which it works. One fundamental point.
In assisting its member countries to meet cur-   however, has endured and will not change:
rent and future challenges, the Bank is committed  The Bank remains the only development insti-
to build on and enhance its roles as a supplier of   tution in the world with a long-term partnership
development financeprovider of advice. and, in    with virtually every developing _ountry, awealth
special cases, as a resource for helping address   of cross-country experience, and a product mix
strategic development issues that transcend na-   that combines finance, policy advice, and in-
tional boundaries.                         depth research. This unique capacity and the
Given the scale and scope of the development   fifty-year experience with development make the
agenda, the Bank is aware that it must avoid    Bank a major global asset in the effort to reduce
stretching itself too thin. It is focusing, therefore,   poverty and improve the human condition-an
on doing what it does best and is encouraging a   asset that is just as needed today as it was fifty
division of labor with its partners. It is deing this   years ago.
by foilowing six guiding principles:         The Bank calls on its partners to work with it in
Being selective in choosing which strategic ac-   meeting the challenges of the twenty-first cen-
tions to pursue; embracing partnerships with   tury.
other participants-multilateral, bilateral, gov-
ermnental, nongovernmental, the private sector;



14   O vlewot World Bank ActIVItles In Fical 1994
IBRD and IDA Lending to the Poorest Countries, Fiscal 1985-94
(US$ millions)
II] IDAamnount       -           IBRD amount
3,935.2   5,379.7  6,1093   5,977.9  6,166.0   5,361.9
1985-89       1990         1991         1992         1993          1994
annual
average       Total        Total*       Total        Total         Total
9,567.0      9,502.3     11,059.1     11,101.0     10,379.3      9,435.4
Note: The poorest countries are defined as those with a per capita income of$675 or less in 1992
U.S. dollars.
In various parts of the Bank, changes in busi-   Finance Corporation at the operational level
ness practices are being explored. Experimen-   has been intensified, including review of pro-
tation is under way to help define means of   grams in support of the telecommunications
delivering Bank products of higher quality with   sector and private sector development activi-
reduced costs. Most of these efforts are cur-  ties.
rently directed to process simplification, al-  Private flows represent an increasingly im-
though more ambitious '"redesigning'" or   portant source of finance for developing coun-
process-innovation pilot programs are also un-   tries, with net flows reaching a ten-year high in
der review. In addition, more focused priority   1993 of $113 billion, an increase of more than
setting is fostering greater partnerships with   150 percent of the level of 1990. Although lev-
the private sector and other multilateral and bi-   els of flows in the future are unpredictable,
lateral donors. A greater role for the private   clearly today the private sector is playing a ma-
sector is being promoted explicitly as the Bank   jor role in those countries where reform pro-
moves to support and catalyze private sector   grams are well established or the potential
activities. Collaboration with the International   exists for lge gains. Countries in East Asia,



Overiew of Wadrd Bank Actiiles in Rscal 1994  15
Latin America, and Central and Eastern Eu-   the Trust Fund for Gaza was approved for the
rope have been the largest recipients of private   Occupied Territories.
capital, enabling the Bank to address more ba-  Net disbursements from the IBRD to mem-
sic social and environmental issues that are not   ber countries were a negative $731 million-
covered by other lenders.                 IDA's net disbursements were $5,110 million.
In summary. the operational context was one  During the year, the tenth replenishment of
of changing business products and processes in  IDA's resources (IDA-10) became effective,
an environment containing many country un-   and the Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only
certainties, making it all the more important   Countries was extended until July 31, 1995. In
that the Bank be well positioned to deliver   July 1993, the executive board agreed to allo-
work programs that are appropriate to current   cate $100 million from the IBRD's net income
country circumstances and be able to respond   earned during fiscal 1993 to the facility.
quickly to changing conditions as they arise.  The IBRD borrowed the equivalent of $8,908
In fiscal 1994, lending by the Bank to all   million in the world's financial markets. Net
borrowers amounted to $20,836 million:   income was $1,051 million.
$14,243.9 million by the IBRD and $6.592.1  During the fiscal year, the former Yugoslav
million by IDA.                           Republic of Macedonia fulfilled the required
Specific investment loans and credits was,  formalities to succeed to the membership of the
by far, the most favored lending instnrnent   former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugosla-
employed during the year. Commitments for   via, bringing the total membership of the IBRD
this type of instrument totaled $14.1 billion (68   to 177. At the end of the fiscal year, action was
percent of the total).                    pending on membership in the IBRD for
Adjustment lending has been declining since   Bosnia-Herzegovina, Eritra, and the Federal
1989. In fiscal 1994. adjustment lending   Republic of Yugoslavia.
amounted to S24 bilion, representing 12 per-  The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
cent of the total, compared widt $612 billion in   also fulfilled the required formalities to succeed
fiscal 1989. an amount that represented 29 per-  to the membership of the former Socialist Fed-
cent of total lending. This decline is due to the   eral Republic of Yugoslavia as a member of
relative maturity ofthe reform process in many   IDA. Armenia became a member of IDA on
countries and to constraints and uncertainties   August 25, 1993, Georgia became a member on
that impede progress in others.           August 31, 1993, and Moldova became a mem-
Assistance to the poorest countries-those   ber on June 14, 1994, bringing the total mem-
with a per capita gross national product of $675   bership of IDA to 156 At the end of the fiscal
or less (in terms of 1992 United States dollars)   year, action was pending on membership in
totaled $9,4354 million: $4,073.6 million from    IDA for Bosnia-Herzegovina, Eritrea, Turke-
the IBRD and $5,361.9 million from IDA (see   menistan, Ukraine, and the Federal Republic
accompanying figure)- One loan of $30 milion,   of Yugoslavia-
on IDA-like terms, from resources provided by



16
Section One
The Executive Board
The executive directors are responsible for   Territories and the countries of the CFA Zone.
the conduct of the general operations of the   poverty reduction, portfolio management, es-
Bank, which includes deciding on Bank policy   tablishment of an independent inspection
in the framework of the Articles of Agreement   panel, and the Bank at age fifty as it looks to-
and approving all loan and credit proposals.   wards its work and rale in the Twenty-first
The president of the Bank is the chairman of   Century.
the executive directors. The president is also
the chief of the operating staff of the Bank and   Oeit of Financial and
conducts. under the direction of the executive   Opera f FmancProgand
directors, the ordinary business of the Bank.    Operai Po
The executive directors are also responsible    In fulfiling its responsibilities to oversee the
for presenting to the board of governors an au-  IEBRD and IDA financial and operating pro-
dit of accounts, an administrative budget, the   grams, the executive directors authorized a
Annual Report on the operations and policies   program of borrowings and liability manage-
Of the World Bank, and any other matters that,   ment in the context of a borrowing plan for fis-
in their judgment, require submission to the   cal 1994 of S12.0 billion equivalent. This
board of gove.nors. Matters may be submitted   program, which the board monitored on a quar-
to the board ofgovernors at its annual meetings   terly basis through regular market briefings,
or at any time during the year.          was carried out according to agreed broad pa-
The executive board exercises its authority,   rameters. In accordance with the simplified
under the Articles of Agreement, hi three gen-   budget review cycle endorsed by the board in
erl areas. First, through its annual oversight of  fiscal 1992, the executive directors were in-
the financial and operating programs, and ad-   volved in the formulation of the Bank's
ministrative budgets, the board determines the   medium-term planning directions (fiscal 1995-
allocation of financial and staff resources for   97) and in setting the fiscal 1995 operating
the coming year. Second, through its review of   budget In this framework, they approved in-
evaluations of completed Bank projects and the   dicative IBRD lending for the year at between
Bank's experience in individual sectors and   $15.5 billion and $17-5 billion, with an indica-
with particular policies, as well as through its  tive IDA lending program of 53 billion in spe-
participation in the annual review of portfolio   cial drawing rights (about $7.5 billion). The
perfornance, the board is actively involved in   board also approved the allocation of fiscal
auditing development effectiveness, thereby   1993's net income and the plan for fiscal 1994.
ensuring that the Bank and member countries   Opeons Evauation and
can benefit from the lessons of expenrence.   opertionslevaluation
Through its review of specific policy proposals   Pect Implemention
(for example, the Bank's financial policies.    In order to fulill its responsibility to review
operational policies, lending terms, sectoral   project evaluations and proposals for fiuture
priorities), the board determines the direction   evaluation activities, the board continued to
of Bank policies. Through its approval of lend-   give particular attention to the Operations
ing operations and its review of the Bank's   Evaluation Department (OED). The OED. un-
country-assistance strategies, the board over-   der the management of the director general, is
sees the Bank's lending program.         linked administratively to the Bank president
Exercise of executive board authority in   but is directly responsible to the executive di-
these three areas results in continuous dialogue   rectors. The board approved OED's work pro-
between the board and the management of the   gram and staff budget for fiscal 1994 and
Bank. The quality of that dialogue was further   reviewed the status of the deparcnent's work
enhanced throughout the fiscal year on those   and its report on operations evaluation. The ex-
occasions of broad discussion on key issues   ecutive board also agreed that. foUowing its
such as emergency assistance to the Occupied   discussion of OED's annual review of evalua-



Review of Policy Proposals  17
tion results, the review should be published   notes or new structured bonds with different
and made available outside the Bank.       embedded derivatives- In order to facilitate
In addition, the executive directors endorsed   such exchanges, and structured borrowings
steps for strengthening portfolio-performance   generally, the executive directors also autho-
management, including the internal processes   rized short-tern borrowings to be conducted in
used by the Bank to oversee portfolio perfor-   any currency by amending the short-term
mance. In turn, they held discussions with    United States dollar borrowing authorization
management and staff on the 'Annual Report   and the exclusion of such exchanges from the
on Portfolio Performance," which covered the   volume limit approved by the board applicable
results of fiscal 1993. This report noted that the   to the IBRD's regular repurchases of debt se-
greater attention to portfolio-performance   curities.
management, particularly the "cleaning up" of  In fiscal 1989 the board had approved a joint
the operations portfolio, had helped in the   resolution establishing the Debt-reduction Fa-
short term to avoid a further deterioration in   cility for WA-only Countries. Subsequent ex-
the Bank's quantitative measures of portfolio  tensions were made to the facility, and in fiscal
performance. The board wfll continue to mon-   1994 the board assessed progress under the fa-
itor progress and review the next steps in this   cility and approved its extension until July 31,
ongoing process.                           1995.
Operations. In fiscal year 1994 the board
Review of Policy Proposals         -       interacted with Bank management and staff to
In the course of the fiscal year, the executive   set policies fundamental to the Bank's opera-
board reviewed policy proposals and made de-  tional priorities and strategies. Establishing an
cisions that affected the operations in many ar-  inspection function at the Bank was one of the
eas of Bank activities, including finance,   board's major concerns in the fiscal year. As a
lending operations, sector policies, develop-   result of its intensive discussions of the issues
ment economics, and administration.        and options in both formal and informal set-
Finance. In fiscal year 1994, IDA policies   tings, the executive directors established the
and operations continued to receive the atten-   objectives, mandate, and operating procedures
tion of the directors. Early in the fiscal year,  for an inspection panel. This panel would pro-
the board reviewed IDA's policies, operations,   vide an independent review mechanism for af-
and fmances during the ninth replenishment pC-   fected parties of an action or omission by the
nod (fiscal 1991-93).' With respect to IDA re-   Bank resulting from its failure to follow its op-
flows, the board set the use of advance   erational policies and procedures-? The three
commitment authority from future reflows   members of the panel were named in April
amounting to SDR800 million (about $1,126   1994. The members of the panel accepted their
million) annually for the period fiscal 1994-96   appointments, effective August 1, and the
and further annual allocations in fiscal 1994 of   panel was expected to open for business in
SDR190 million (about $265 million) for the   early September.
"'ifth dimension" program. This program pro-  A similar process was followed by the exec-
vides supplementary IDA resources to those   utive directors in expanding access to Bank in-
IDA-only countries that have outstanding debt   formation through revisions to the Bank's
to the IBRD, are current in their debt-service   policies on disclosure of information, which
payments to both the IBRD and IDA, and have   provided, among other things, access by the
in place IDA-supported adjustment programs.   public to a number of previously restricted doc-
Such supplementary resources, therefore, take   uments and the establishment of a Public In-
into account the debt impact arising from IBRD    formation Center at the Bank's headquarters.4
interest payments-                           The board reaffirmed the importance of pov-
Following the launch of a pilot program of   erty reduction as an integrating theme in nearly
single-currency loans to respond to some bor-   all Bank assistance. The executive directors as-
rowers' needs in fiscal 1993 for a choice of   sessed the progress that had been made in sup-
terms to help reduce the currency and interest   porting poverty reduction in the Bank's
-rate risks in their IBRD loans, the board held   activities in fiscal year 1993 and reviewed the
an interirn review to assess the target ratios for   adequacy of the steps taken by the Bank to
the composition of the currency pools.2 The ex-   improve the way it addresses poverty issues?
ecutive directors also approved a structured
bond borrowings and liquidity arrangement
that, by applying the existing debt buyback and  For dIls. see pa  170
borrowing authority, would permit the IBRD to   3 Fo  - . da pw 74.'
exchange outstanding structured bonds de-   'For details. see page 75.
nominated in any currency for floating rate   5For deails. see page 36.



18   The Executive Board
In fiscal 1993, the board approved a policy  The board carefully followed developments
under which countries in transition could be   in the intemational economic and political en-
granted a temporary waiver of the negative-   vironment, often in forums such as seminars
pledge clause under certain conditions. The   and briefings, which allowed for a more infor-
negative-pledge clause is a standard feature of   mal debate with management and staff. Major
all IBRD loan agreements. Its basic purpose is  issues included the establishment of a donors'
to protect the Bank by orohibiting, among   group for the Occupied Territories and a trans-
other things, member-country borrowers from    fer from surplus to fund an emergency rehabil-
establishing liens on public assets that would   itation program for Gaza,' specific issues
create a preference for other creditors on for-  related to development in Africa, such as the
eign exchange loans over the debt owed to the   adjustment experience,'8 better health," and
Bank. For countries in transition to market   the Bank's role in the development of South
economies, however, most of their important   Africa; Latin America, a decade after the debt
assets are still publicly owned, and, therefore,   crisis; the East Asian economic  miracle";'2
the negative-pledge clause makes it extremely   and the international conference on hunger.23
difficult for public sector enterprises to enter   The executive directors were also participants
into much-needed financial relationships with   in a cotloquium with outside experts on the re-
private creditors without either requesting a   cent economic developments in China.
waiver of the negative-pledge clause or grant-  The board reviewed the Bank's development
ing equal and ratable security to the IBRD.  in the context of the country-assistance strat-
As a result of the eligibility requirements es-   egies (CAS) of sixty IBRD and IDA borrowers.
tablished under the fiscal 1993 policy, how-   To ensure that these reviews provided appro-
ever, no waivers of the negative pledge were   priate coverage of the key issues affecting the
granted. Therefore, substantial investments   Bank's strategy and that individual lending op-
were pending in several countries because of   erations were consistent with the overall strat-
the continued application of the negative-   egy. the board considered the role and nature
pledge clause. To address this problem, the   of the CAS and set guidelines for their prepa-
board approved in fiscal 1994 a modification to   ration. The executive directors also kept
the negative-pledge waiver that would allow    abreast of the activities and progress of the in-
the country-eligibility decision to be based on   creasing number ofconsultative and aid groups
the Bank's judgment that the country was mak-   chaired by the Bank at the request of the re-
ing progress in privatization, was moving to-   cipient countries (see Table 1-1).
ward a market economy and experiencing       In addition to approving all IBRD loans and
improvement in its macroeconomic situation,   IDA credits, the board monitored the progress
and that the waiver of the negative pledge   of the Bank's overall lending program through
would further contribute to the attainment of   regular briefings with senior management. In
these goals. In the wake of this modification,   addition, to gauge the impact of the Bank's
the board approved country waivers for Rus-   work "on the ground" and to discuss priority
sia, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan.           development issues with senior policymakers
The board continued to monitor the Bank's  in member countries, selected groups of exec-
role in providing technical assistance. They re-   utive directors and alternate executive direc-
viewed the first year of experience with the In-   tors travelled to a number of borrowing
stitutional Development Fund,' recommended   countries. In fiscal 1994, there were four such
to the board of governors the establishment of   missions: to Indonesia and Fiji; the Czech Re-
the Joint Vienna Institute, and discussed the   public. Hungary and Slovakia; Egypt, Leba-
board's report on technical assistance activi-   non, and Morocco; and Benin, C6te d'Ivoire,
ties in fiscal year 1993. In addition, the board   and Ghana.
provided guidance to staff on revising the
Bank's policies as they relate to procurement   Sector Policies and
activities, outreach, and supervision.     Development Economics
The importance placed by the board on      In regular board sessions, committees of the
environmental sustainability in the Bank's op-   whole, seminars, and informal briefings, a
erations was reflected in the directors' dis-
cussions of the annual report on the Bank and  Ford,s.seeg6
the environment, in their major review of Bank   7 For detais. see page 44.
projects involving involuntary resettlement in   * Fordetails. see page 47.
the period 1986-93,' and in their substantial   9 Fordetails. see page 116.
involvement with the negotiations, replenish-   1 For details. see page S2
involvement                     *~~~~~~~~~I Far details. see pag 85.
ment, and restructuring of the Global Environ-   12 For details, see page 89.
ment Facility.8                            1' For details. see page 49.



Adminstrion   19
Table 1-I. Aid Coordination Group Meetiogs Chaired by the World Bank
in Fiscal 1994
(corsortia. consultative groups. and aid groups)
Date                                    Country                              Location
1993
July 1-2                India consortium                                            Paris
July 12-13              Tanzania consultative group                                 Paris
October 26              Moldova consultative group                                  Paris
October 27              Belarus consultative group                                  Paris
November 22-23          Kcnya consultative group                                    Paris
December 6-8            Mozambique consultative grup                                Paris
December 8-10           Zambia consultative group                                   Paris
December 9-10           Bolivia consultative group                       Washington. D.C.
December 12-14          Zimbabwe consultative group                                 Paris
December 16             West Bank and Gaza Strip consultative group                 Paris
December 19-21          Malawi consultative group                                   Paris
1994
January 14              Kazakhstan consultative group                               Paris
January 25-26           Egypt consultative group                                    Paris
January 27-28           Canbbean suab-group for Guyana                           Guyana
February 24-25          Pakistan consortium                                         Paris
March 7-S               Ethiopia consultative group                                 Paris
March 17-18             Sierra Leone consultative group                             Paris
March 22-23             Zambia consultative group                                   Paris
April 19-20             Bangladesh ad group                                         Paris
April 21-22             Caribbean Group for Cooperation in               Washington, D.C.
Economic Development (meeting of donors)
May 5-6                 Mauitania  consultative group                               Paris
..y 10-11               Peru consultative group                                     Paris
May 17                  Jordan consudtative group                                   Paris
June 2                  Kv gyz Republic consultative group                          Paris
June 6-7                Romania consultative group                                  Paris
June 6-10               Canbbean Group for Cooperation in                Washington, D.C.
Economic Development
June 9-10               Bulgaria consultative group                                 Paris
June 16                 Nicaragua consulative group                                 Paris
June 27-28              FIYR Macedonia consultative group                           Paris
June 30-July 1          India Development Forum 1994                                Paris
Noar: The meeting of the Nepal aid group. ornay scheduled fir Apnl 28-29, 1994 was postponed.
number of sector policies, their implementa-    considered the outline and final draft of World
tion, and "best practicest' were reviewed. In    DevelopmentReport 1994, which examined the
the area of human resources development, the    interplay between infrastructure and develop-
executive directors discussed the lessons of ex-   ment.17
perience with higher education'4 and, on sev-
eral occasions, debated the issues of gender    Administration
and development, whicn culminated in a policy   The board also dealt at some length with the
paper on enhancing women's participation in    Bank Group's administrative policies and prac-
economic development.t5 In the area of trade,   tices. In fiscal year 1994, it was involved in
the board considered a preliminary assessment   issues of staff benefits, including the quadren-
of the completed Uruguay Round of GAiT    nial review of benefits and eligibility for expa-
talks, as well as the emergence of "new region-   triate benefits. They also reviewed their own
alism"' and ics consequences."
Other important sector reviews included
Bank Group issues with regard to telecommu- ,5For daiLs. see pa 37.
nications, ransport policies, and financial and    "For details. see page 31.
private sector development. The board also   '7For details. sec page 43.



20   The Executfive Board
operational travel policies and made modifica-   quacy of the work of thc operations evaluation
tions that aligned these policies with those of   and internal audit units. The committee pro-
the staff. As it does each year, the executive   vides a channel through which the intemal and
directors considered the issues affecting staff  external auditors can communicate with the ex-
compensation and approved a salary adjust-  ecutive directors.
ment. They made a recommendation to the     In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal
governors on the remuneration of the Bank's   1994 the committee nominated a firm of pri-
president.                                vate, independent, internationally established
In a number of meetings, the board followed   accountants to conduct the annual audits of the
the implementation of the rehabilitation of the   Bank. The committee reviewed the scope of
Bank's main complex building. They also re-  the independent accountants' examination and
viewed the arrangements for the Bank's annual  their annual audited financial statements. It
meetings.                                 also held in-depth discussions with the external
As the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of   auditors on the scope of their work on special
the Bretton Woods institutions approached,   audits, particularly those carried out on the
the executive directors extensively involved   main complex rehabilitation project. The com-
themselves in the planning for commemorating   mittee reiterated the importance of maintaining
the anniversary and in collaborating with Bank   a close working relationship with the external
management and staff on the drafting of the   auditors- Several meetings were held in the
Bank's current and future agenda.         course of the year to this effect. In addition,
through regular meetings with the Bank's se-
Development Committee                     nior financial officers. thie committee helped to
As in previous years, the executive directors   provide assurance to the executive board that
were actively involved with the Development  the financial affairs of die Bank were properly
Committee, assisting committee members in   conducted. In this regard, the committee re-
preparing for their meetings, considering the   viewed and endorsed recommendations per-
draft provisional agenda, and discussing the   taining to the fiscal 1994 implementation of the
president's reports and background papers that   IBRD's policy for loan-loss provisioning. It
were the basis forthe ministers' discussions. In   was also briefed on the status of the current
addition, several months prior to each Devel-   Bank loan portfolio- In addition, the committee
opment Comniittee meeting, the executive di-  reviewed the situation of countries in arrears
rectors convened as a com.rnittee of the whole   and heard reports on recent developments in
to review the preliminary agenid and the out-  nonaccrual countries. The comniit-ce also re-
lines for the background papers in order to en-   viewed and endorsed preliminary recommen-
sure that the main issues and concerns of   dations regarding the annual allocation of the
committee members were well reflected in the   IBRD's net income. Another area examined
documentation.                            was the adequacy of the Bank's internal con-
In preparing for the committee's semiannual  trol systems. As part of its oversight function,
meetings, the board discussed a range of pa-  the committee under-took its annual review of
pers and reports that touched on many issues   the work programs of the Operations Evalua-
of importance to the Bank's member countries,  tion Department (OED) and Internal Auditing
including the adjustment experience in, and im-   Department (LAD). Two subcommittees of al-
plications for, low-income countries; social se-  ternate executive directors were appointed to
curity reforms and social safety nets in   assist the committee in carrying out its man-
reforming transition economies; reports on   date with regard to the OED and the LAD. In
population in developing countries' and migra-   addition, the committee reviewed numerous
tion flows, and Bank activities in women in   papers by the OED as part of an ongoing effort
development." The executive directors' Steer-  to identify problems or policy issues for con-
ing Committee reviewed the communiques   sideration by the executive directors.
released by the Development Committee fol-    The committee consists of eight executive di-
lowing its semiannual meetings and made sug-   rectors. Marc-Antoine Autheman has served
gestions to ensure that the board's work   as chairman of the committee since March
program was responsive to the directions set   1994.
by the committee.                           Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Bud-
get Practices. The Committee on Cost Effec-
Board Committees                         tiveness and Budget Practices (CEBP) was
Joint Audit Committee. Established in 1970,   established in 1986 to examine aspects of the
the Jc.nt Audit Committee (JAC) represents
shareholders in overseeing the soundness of   "For deails. see page 37.
the Bank's financial practices and the ade-   "For dctis. see page 36.



Board Committees  21
Bank's business processes. administrative pol-  recruits people with the skills needed to carry
icies, business standards, and budget practices   out its changing work program), and possible
that significantly affect the cost effectiveness   changes in the local currency option of the staff
of its operations.                        retirement plan. Two of the major actions un-
Fiscal year 1994 was the first year that the   dertaken by the committee were to review the
committee's mandate was expanded to include   results of the quadrennial benefits survey and
the review of all the major papers in the Bank's   of the 1994 review of staff compensation. Fol-
budget cycle-the fiscal 1993 retrospective re-  lowing the committee's endorsement, the
view, IBRDIIDA planning directions for fiscal   board approved management's recommenda-
years 1995-97, the fiscal 1994 mid year review,   tions with respect to both items. The role of the
and the IBRD programs and fiscal 1995 budget.   Bank's fieid offices was also a focus of the
Foliowing meetings to consider the relevant pa-   committee's scrutiny.
pers, the committee prepared reports to the  The committee consists of eight executive di-
board conveying its views on the planning di-  rectors. Jean-Pierre Le Bouder has served as
rections paper and on the budget for fiscal   chairman of the commitee since January 1993.
1995. The discussion of the latter was added to  Committee on Directors' Administrative
the committee's work program as a follow-up   Idatters. The Committee on Directors' Admin-
to the fiscal 1994 budget discussion during   istrative Matters (CODAM) was established in
which the importance of the committee's active   1968 to consider administrative matters relat-
involvement in the planning and budgeting pro-  ing to executive dirctors and their alternates,
cess was strongly encouraged.             advisers, and staff. The commiuee recom-
The committee devoted a number of meet-   mends to the executive board the formulation
ings to considering cost-saving issues that cov-   and implementation of new administrative pol-
ered a wide range of Bank activities, from    icies and changes in existing policies.
improvements in the efficiency with which   Major issues taken up by the committee in
work is carried out to systematic and incentive   the fiscal year included remuneration of advis-
changes in processes and procedures. As a part   ers and executive directors' assistants; execu-
of this exercise, the committee requested and   tive directors' travel to member countries
was given a presentation on the work of the   outside of their constituencies (group travel);
staff Committee on Business Innovation and   travel policy for executive directors; and con-
Simplification (BIAS). Thereafter, the BIAS    sideration of executive directors' administra-
Committee sought the advice and views of the   tive expenses.
CEBP on the streamlining of some board doc-  The committee coordinates many of its rec-
umentation.                               ommendations with a similar comniittee estab-
The committee consists of eight executive di-  lished by the executive board of the MEF.
rectors. Angel Torres has served as chairman  The committee consists of six executive di-
of the committee since December 1992.     rectors. John Cosgrove has served as chairman
Committree on Personnel Policy Issues. The   of the committee since January 1993.
committee, which was established in 1980, is    The Ad Hoc Committee on Review of Board
charged with keeping under continuing review    Committees. The Ad Hoc Committee on Re-
and, where appropriate, advising the executive   view of Board Committees was established in
directors on, staff compensation and other sig-   December 1993 to review the function, struc-
nificant personnel policy issues. It also main-  ture, and terms of reference of standing com-
tains close liaison with the executive directors   mittees of executive directors, including
of the International Monetary Fund (DIM) on   criteria for appointments to committees. It
these issues, bearing in mind the general par-   completed its work in April 1994. The commit-
allelism of the two institutions.         tee's recommendations will be implemented
One of the main undertalings of the commit-  following the 1994 regular election of executive
tee during the year was the continuing exami-  directors.
nation of the complex subject of expatriate  The conclusions and recommendations in
benefits. The board subsequently took up the   the committee's report, which was approved
matter, first, on the basis of the committees re-   by the executive directors in May 1994, aim to
port and recommendation, and then, on the ba-  improve and strengthen, rather than funda-
sis of a paper from management. The board   mentally change, existing arrangements for
finally decided not to change the current policy.   exectutive directors' committees. The main con-
The committee reviewed the Bank's and the   clusions and recommendations are summa-
International Finance Corporation's (IFC) per-  rized below.
sonnel policies and practices, results of the  Functions and structure of committees. It was
1993 staff attitude survey, issues related to   agreed that the overall objective of committees
skills mix (that is, how the Bank identifies and   should be to strengthen the efficiency and ef-



22  The Executive Board
fectiveness of the board in discharging its re-  Composition and guidelines for appointment
sponsibilities. To meet this overall objective,  to committees. It was further agreed that ap-
committees need to carry out work programs   pointments to committees should be governed
that facilitate the process of consensus building   by general principles that can be applied flex-
and decisionmaking in the board and assist the   ibly, the two most important of which are
board in discharging its oversight responsibili-  consultation among executive directors and
ties. Generally. com..iittees need to focus on a   balanced representation from the board. Spe-
limited number of clearly defined priority is-   cifically. appointments to committees should
sues.                                     reflect economic and geographic diversity of
In view of the overall workload of commit-  the Bank's member countries with a view to
tees and the steadily growing importance and   ensuring balanced representation between bor-
need for review of operations evaluation and   rowing and nonborrowing member countries.
development-effectiveness issues in the con-  The committee consisted of four executive
text of the Bank Group's operational activities,   directors. Jorunn Maehlum served as chairman
it was furtheragreed that (a) the mandate of the   of the committee.
Joint Audit Committee should focus on exter-  Executtive Directors'. Steering Committee.
nal and internal audit and financial policy   The Executive Directors' Steering Committee,
issues and (b) a new committee of eight exec-   an informal advisory body of executive direc-
utive directors should be establibhed to review   tors composed of the dean and the co-dean of
operations evaluation and development-effec-  the board, as well as the chairpersons of the
tiveness issues.                          other standing board committees, meets
It was agreed that the mandates of all com-   monthly to consult on, and review with the
mittees should apply uniformly to the EFC.  Bank's vice president and secretary, the exec-
Interaction between committees, Bank man-   utive directors' work program. The committee
agement, and the board. New procedures were   also provides a consultative framework for var-
approved to strengthen interaction between   ious board issues. In addition, the committee
committees, management, and the board.   reviews the Development Committee's com-
These procedures cover reporting require-   muniqu6s to ensure that the implications for
ments of committees and management to the   the executive directors' work program are fully
board and are designed to facilitate board dis-   considered. The steering committee has also
cassion of formal management proposals (in-  taken a leadership role in ensuring the imple-
eluding, in some cases, management option   mentation of the new board policies and pro-
papers) submitted to committees for prior re-   cedures, including, among others, the
view.                                     determination of the scheduling of country-
A number of recommendations aimed at im-   assistance strategies and periodic reviews of
proving efficiency in the conduct of committee   sector policies. The committee consists of six
business were also approved, including, for ex-   executive directors. The dean of the board,
ample, recommendations for building consen-   Ibrahim Al-Assaf, has served as chairman
sus among executive directors on controversial   since September 1993.
issues, for identifying priority issues for board  The meetings of committees of the executive
consideration, and for board approval of com-   board are open to participation by all executive
mittee recommend2tions on an absence-of-   directors.
objection basis.



23
Section Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Economic activity in the industrialized coun-   widely. Growth in East Asia and the Pacific, of
tries slowed further in 1993, to 1.2 percent. as   9.2 percent, continued to outpace that in every
a result of sluggish growth in Japan and reces-   other developing region by at least five per-
sion in continental Europe (see Table 2-1). Re-   centage points. China remained the fastest
covery in the United States was well underway   growing economy in the region-and the
by the fourth quarter of 1993, when output ex-   world. Growth has averaged 13 percent in the
panded by 7 percent on an annual basis. Can-   past two years. as the government continued to
ada and the United Kingdom experienced a   implement market-based reforms and as trans-
modest recovery in 1993. The slow pace of   national corporations continued to commit
overall growth in 1993 was associated with- ris-  record amounts of investment. In July 1993,
ing unemployment, which reached 8.2 percent  the Chinese authorities undertook measures to
in the industrial countries as a group, topping   slow the torrid pace of growth and ease rising
out at 10 percent of the labor force in several  inflationary pressures. Malaysia and Thailand,
European countries.                       two other prime recipients of foreign direct in-
Reflecting the significant gap between actual   vestment, once again displayed outstanding
and potential output in most industrial coun-   growth performance. These countries began to
tries, inflation continued to ease, as growth in   show strains resulting from shortages of skilled
the GDP deflator fell to 3.3 percent, down from   labor and adequate infrastructure, as well as
4 percent in 1992.'                       from the need to address longer-term issues,
The developing countries-excluding the   such as upgrading production to higher value-
countries in transition in Central and Eastern   added sectors as competition in the labor-
Europe and the former Soviet Union (ESU)-   intensive sectors increases from countries such
grew by an estimated 4.5 percent in 1993, up   as China, India, and Indonesia.
from 3.6 percent in 1992, thereby exceeding  Latin American and the Caribbean once
industrial-country growth by more than three   again experienced gains in output as refonns in
percentage points for the third straight year   many countries continued to take root and
(see Table 2-2). Underlying these aggregates,   show results. Growth for the region as a whole,
however, were widely differing trends between   supported by large inflows of foreign private
the countries in transition and the traditional   capital flows, rose to 3.5 percent, up from 2.8
universe of developing countries. Output in   percent in 1992. Individual country perfor-
Central and Eastern European countries and in   mance was mixed, however. Although Brazil's
the republics of the FSU fell by an estimated   economy grew by rit estimated 4.9 percent (up
7.4 percent in 1993. Although the rate of de-  from a decline of close to I percent in the pre-
cline slowed from 12.7 percent in 1992_ it was   vious year), the inflation rate inc-qssd diramat-
the fourth straight year of diminishing output.  ically. Political uncertainty, lower oil prices,
The continued robust growth in the tradi-   and policy weaknesses moved Venezuela into
tional developing countries in the face of re-   recession during the year. Growth, which
cession in the industrialized countries can be   slowed in Mcxico to about 2 percent in 1992
attributed to several factors. These include the   after several years of more robust gains, was
effects of increasingly widespread and sus-   stagnant in 1993, as tighter credit conditions
tained policy reforms in many countries; low    aimed at curbing a bulging external deficit
international interest rates (that partly offset   slowed activity. The signing of the North
the depressing effect on commodity exporters   American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA),
of falling export prices); and, associated with
these two factors, the enormous continued
surge in private capital flows to developing   'Although inflationary pressures remained in check, the
countries-                                  stemngth of the recovery in the United Stales moved the
Growth prformane amongthe mai devel- Federal Reserve Board to increase short-term dollar inter-
Growth performance among the main devel-   est rates in the first quarter of 19g4. European and Japa-
oping country regions continued to diverge    nese raes. however. remain low.



24   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Table 2-1. G-7 Countries: Output, Inflation, Investment, and Unemployment, 193-93
(aveage annual percentagc changc: unemployment rates in percent)
G-7 country           198393        1992       1993        1983-93       1992       1993*
Real GDP                            GDP deflator
Canada                 2.7           0.7         2.4         3.3          1.2         1.8
France                 2.1           1.4       -1.0          4.2          2.3         1.5
Gennanyb               2.6           1.2        -1.9         2.9          4.4         3.8
Italy                  2.2           0.9       -0.7          7.7          4.7         3.8
Japan                  3.7           1.2         1.1         1.5          1.8         1.4
United Kingdom         2.2         -0.5          1.9         5.3          4.3         2.5
United States          2.8           2.6         3.0         3.7          2.9         2.8
G-7 average            2.8           1.7         1.3         3.7          3.0         2.6
Total OECD             2.8           1.7         1.2         5.1          4.0         3.3
Gross fixed investment                Unemployment rate
Canada                 3.3         -2.1          0.5         9.8         11.3        11.2
France                 1.1         -3.1        -6.5          9.9         10.4        11.7
Germanyb               2.9           0.3        -5.1         7.3          5.9         7.4
Italy                  1.4         -1.5        -9.1          11.0        11.5        10.4
Japan                  5.3          -4.3       -7.4          2.5          2.2         2.5
United Kirsgdom.       3.2         -3.3        -2.9          9.2          9.8        10.3
United States          3.4           6.2        10.9         6.8          7.4         6.8
G-7 avcrage            3.3           1.3         1.6         6.8          7.1         7.1
Total OECD             3.6           1.9         1.9         7.5          7.8         8.2
a. Preliminary.
b. German data rcfer to westrn LAnder only.
Souna: Orapisaxion ror Economic Coopeation and Develpment (OECD). International Monetary Fund (IME:).
however, bolstered the positive longer-term    tion of the deep social and structural challenges
outlook forthe economy. Argentina, Chile, and    facing a new administration.
Colombia experienced growth of more than 5       Growth in South Asia slowed to 3.8 percent,
percent.                                       in part the result of devastating floods in Paki-
Sub-Saharan Africa (excluding South Africa)   stan towards the end of 1992 and weak indus-
posted a modest increase in GDP of 1.4 per-   trial growth in India. Nevertheless, countries in
cent; the region was helped by recovery from    the region showed improvements in their ex-
the most severe drought to hit Eastern and    ternal account performance, with increased ex-
Southern Africa in this century, as well as by    ports and private capital inflows. The new
gradually improving performance in countries    government in Pakistan confirmed its adher-
that have persisted with adjustment and reform    ence to the reforn policies of the previous tran-
policies. Although overall growth remained    sitional administration. India continued its
low, some hopeful signs also emerged: Civil   moderately paced but steady economic reform
war came to an end in Ethiopia and Mozam-   policies. Although inflows of foreign capital to
bique, beverage prices moved higher during the    that country were small by comparison with
year, and expectations for at least a stabiliza-   leading East Asian and Latin American econ-
tion in nonoil commodity prices became some-   ornies, they were nonetheless far greater than
what firmer. The 50 percent devaluation of the    at any time in the past.
CPA franc and the subsequent prompt support      A fall in world oil prices of more than 10 per-
from multilateral lenders and the French gov-   cent contributed to a marked decline in growth,
emnment substantially improved prospects for   to an estimated 1.9 percent, in the Middle East
the revitalization of the adjustment process in   and North Africa. Output fell almost 2 percent
the CFA Zone countries. Finally, the South Af-   in Algeria as the country's political crisis deep-
rican economy began its recovery from pro-    ened. Growth was alnost negligible in Egypt,
longed recession with the passing of drought,   where the process of adjusting fiscal imbal-
rising gold prices, and the ending of interna-   ances continued.
tional sanctions, thereby providing a more fa-   As a group, the transitional economies in
vorable backdrop for the country's wansition    Central and Eastern Europe and the FSU suf-
to multiracial democracy. That process has   fered a further decline in output of more than 7
brought to the fore both hopes for substantial   percent. The republics of the FSU contributed
future economic progress, as well as recogni-   the most to this decline, as their output fell 13



Recent Trends In External Debt and Debt Strategles   25
Table 2-2. Low- and Middle-income Economies: Growth of GDP and GDP per Capita,
1982-93
lavemgc annual percentagc change unless otherwise noted)
CGDP                           GDP per capita
Reglon or income group     293290 299493  1991   1992  199D 1982-90  1991-93  1991   1992  1993"
Low- and middle-incorne
economies                 3.4       0.7   0.2    0.3   2.1    1.4   -1.1  -1.6   -1.5   0.2
By regional group
Sub-Saharan Africa'         2.4       1.4   1.5    1.2   1.4  -0.7    -1.3  -3.5  -1.8  -1.7
East Asia and Facifice      8.1       8.5   7.0    8.7   9.2    6.4      6.9   5.5    7.2   7.5
South Asiad                 5.7       4.0   2.0    4.6   3.8    3.4       1.5  -0.2    2.5   1.8
Middle East and North
Africa                    0.0       2.7   3.1    4.0   1.9  -3.1    -0 3  -0.2    1.1  -1.1
Europe and Central Asiar     1.9    -10.0  -9.3  -12.7  -7.4    1.1  -10.6  -9.8  -13.2  -8.0
Latin Amenrca and the
Caribbean'                2.3       3.1   3.4    2.8   3.5    0.3       1.2   1.6    1.0   1.6
By income group
Low- and middle-income
economies, excluding
transition economies in
Europe and Central Asia   3.8       4.5   4.1    3.6   4.5    1.7      2.5   2.0    1.7   2.9
a. Esdmated.
b. Excludes South Africa.
c. American Samoa. Cambodia, China, Fii. Guam, Indonesia. Kiribad, Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Re-
public, Macao. Malaysia. Mongolia. Myamar. New Caladonia and Pacific Islands' Trust Territory, Papua New Guinea. the
Philippines, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Tonp. Vanuntu, Viet Nam. and Wcstern Samoa.
d. Afghanistan. Bangladesh. Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal. Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
e. Algcria. Bahrain. Egypt, Islamic Republic or Iran, Iraq. Jordan. Lebanon. Libya, Morocco, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Syrian
Arab Republic. Tunisia, and Yemen.
f. Albania. Bulgaria. Czechoslovakia (through 1992; the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic thereafter), Gibraltar,
Greece, Hungary, Isle oF Man. Malta, Poland. Portugal. Ronania, Turkey. republics of the former Soviet Union. and
republics of the former Yugoslavia.
g. All American and Canbbean economies south of the United States, except Cuba.
SouRcE: World Bank
percent on top of a 20 percent drop in 1992.    mated at $1,700 billion at the end of 1993, an
Political uncertainty and macroeconomic insta-    increase of 6.5 percent in nominal terms, or
bility in Russia continued throughout the year.    about $108 billion, over the previous year. Of
Nonetheless, the government maintained prog-    this amount, long-term debt outstanding stood
ress on the structural reforn agenda, albeit at a    at $1,411 billion, an increase of 7.9 percent
halting pace. The privatization program main-    ($103 billion) (see Table 2-3). The increase in
tained momentum; by the end of 1993, two    long-term debt is accounted for principally by
thirds of all small service enterprises had been   net inflows of around $72 billion and a
privatized. Output in Poland grew for a second    currency-valuation factor of over $20 billion re-
year in a row, while economic contraction in    sulting from the fall of the United States dollar
Hungary and the Czech Republic appeared to    against the yen in 1993. In addition, capitaliza-
be drawing to a close. There is evidence, es-    tion of interest through debt reschedulings
pecially in those three countries, that "new"    added $15 billion to long-term  debt (though
largely private sector activity (concentrated in    much of this was offset by reduction in short-
services, construction, and the trades) is be-    term debt, in which interest arrears are classi-
ginning to account for a significant share of out-   fied for debt-accounting purposes), while
put (approaching 50 percent in some cases) and    voluntary debt reductions (buybacks, debt ex-
is providing support for growth.                   changes, equity swaps, and so forth) were cx-
Recent Trends in External Nebt                     pected to have reduced debt by $9 billion.
Private creditors provided 61 percent, or $44
and Debt Strategies                                billion, of the overall $72 billion net flow of
The total external debt of all developing    long-term debt to the developing countries, an
countries, including short-term debt, was esti-   increase of $2 billion from 1992. For the second



26   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Tabk 2-3. Low- and Middle-income Economies: Long-term Debt and Debt Service,
Selected Years, 1988-93
(billions of US dollars; percenlages)
All low- and         Severely indebted
middlc-income          middle-income
economies              economics         Sub-Saharan Africa
Item                        1988    1992    19931   19I    1992   199?3  198B   1992   19938
Debt outstanding           1,128.1  1,308.2  1,410.9  440.0  456.9  475.2  135.0  15535   156.4
Official (9)               46.0    50.9    51.0  38.4  47.0   46.4  60.6  73.0   74.0
Private (%0) M.D    49.1    49.0  61.6  53.0   53.6  39A   27.0   26.0
Debt as % of GNP             29.1    29.6    31.7  38.8  36A   37.2  57.1   55.8   53.7
Debt service                154.2   155.3   161.1  51.8   51.0   53.6   11.2  12.0    9.8
Interest payments            66.1    57.1    61.5   28.4   18.2  20.2   5.1    5.6    4.8
Ofircial (%)               27.6    39.3    40.8   18.9  42.4   42.4  42.7   32.9   36.6
Private (%)                72A      60.7    59.2  81.1   57.6   57.6   57.3   67.1   63A
Principal payments           88.0    98.2    99.6  23.4  32.8   33A    6.1    6.4    5.0
Officil ()                 28.4    30.3    33.1   31.2   31.2   36.4   31.5  30.3   42.2
Private (96)               71.6    69.7    66.9  68.8  68.8   63.6  68.5   69.7   57.8
DCbt-service ratio (%)b      19.9    16.3    16.3  31.5   27.1   26.7   16.4   14.5   11.7
Avenage interest rate on
new commitments (%1'        6.6      6.1    na.;   7.5    6.7   na.    4.1    2.9   n.a.
official (96)               5.0      5A      n.    6.3    6.9   n.a.   3.4    2.8   n.a
Private (6)                 8.0      6.8    n.a.   8.2    6.6   n.a.   7.1    4.9   na.
Disbursements               1215    160.0   171.2  34.1   37.9  44.9   10.5    85    7.7
official (9)               39.1    31.2    3.6   38.1   31.1   38.0  61.9   77.2   81.9
Private (%)                60.9    68.8    64.4   61.9  68.9   62.0  38.1   22.8   18.1
Net resource flows on long-
termlendinge               335      61.8    71.1   10.7   5.1   11.6   4.4    2.1    2.8
Net transfers on long-term
lendinge                 -32.6       4.7    10.2  -17.7  -t3.1  -8.6  -0.7  -35   -2.1
Norm Stock, flow, and economic data cover 148 countries of which 129 report to the World Bank DebtorRporting Sym.
n.a. Not available.
a. Preitminary.
b. Debt service as a perentage of exports of goods and services.
c. Covers the countries reporting to the World Bank Debtor Rcporting System.
d. Disbursements minus (actual) principal repayments.
e. Net resource flows minus (actual) interest payments.
SouRCE: World Bank.
year in succession, private net flows exceeded    Europe-are estimated to have raised over $34
official ones, an occurrence otherwise not ex-    billion in public and private bond placements.
periet'ced since the onset of the debt crisis of   Official net flows increased sharply by $8 bil-
the early 1980s. East Asian and Latin Ameri-   lion, to $28 billion. Net flows from multilateral
can countries continued to borrow actively in    sources, including the World Bank, are esti-
financial markets, as falling short-term  and    mated to have risen to around $18 billion, up
long-term intemational interest rates and an in-    from $12 billion in 1992 (see Table 2-4). Bilat-
tense (if temporary) vogue for emerging market    eral lending was estimated to have risen by 22
debt facilitated a substantial increase in bond    percent, to almost $10 billion. The share of
issuance. Ten countries-Argentina, Brazil,   concessionality in official debt is also estimated
Mexico, and Venezuela in Latin America;   to have risen, reflecting the restructuring of
China, Korea, and Thailand in East Asia; and    nonconcessional debt on concessional terms in
the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Turkey in    Egypt, Poland, and those countries benefiting



Recent Trends In External Debt and Debt Strategies   27
Tabl 2-4. Long-term Financial Flows to Developing Countries, 1986-93
(bflions of US dollars)
Item                                 :986   1987   1988   1989   1990  1991   1992   1993
Long-term aggregate net resource flows  64.0   67.8   74.1   79.4  102.2  121.2  156.6   176.6
Official development finance       44.0   43.9   40.8  41.1   59.2  63.0   54.6   63.4
Official grants                  16.0   16.7   18.3   19.0  28.5  32.9   34.5    355
Net official loans               28.0   27.2   22.5  22.1   30.7  30.1   20.1   27.9
Bilateral                      12.8   12.2   11.4   10.4  159   15.2    7.9    9.6
Multilateral                   15.2   15.0   11.1   11.7  14.8  14.9   122    18.3
Net private loans                   9.2    8.6   11.0  10.1   12.9  13.8   41.7   43.7
Commercial banks                  1.8    1.1    7.9   3.9  -2.5   5.4    185    n.a
Bonds                             0.8    1.0    2.9   4.2   2.3   7.4    63    na.
Others                            6.7    6.5    0.2   2.0   13.1   1.0   16.8    n.a.
Foreign direct investment          10.1   14.5   21.2  24.7  26.3  36.9   47.3   56.3
Portfolio equity investment'        0.6    0.8    1.1    35    3.8   7.6   13.1    132
Long-term aggregate net transferse  -5.0   -3.0   -5A      2.2   25.6  44.5   79.6    91.5
Interest on long-tern debt         57.6   58.3   66.1   60.2  29.1  59.6   57.1    61.5
Profit remittances on FDI          11.4   12.4   13.4   17.0  17.6  17.0   19.9   23.6
n.a. Not available.
a. Prelimnuary.
b. World Bank staff estimates available since 1990 only.
c- Long-tenn aggrepte net resoume flows miinus interst payments and reinvested and renitted profits.
SouRcE: World Banko
from enhanced Toronto terms, as well as new    Mozamrbique in 1991. Guyana in 1992, and
concessional flows to sub-Saharan Africa, the    Uganda and Bolivia in 1993. These operations
Central Asian republics, and Viet Nam.          extinguished $623 million of principal in com-
Voluntary debt-reduction operations, includ-    mercial debt at an average price of 14 cents on
ing official debt forgiveness by key Arab cred-   the dollar. Similar buyback operations were in
itors to countries in the Middle East, are    preparation for another ten countries: Albania,
estimated to have reduced debt by about S9 bil-    Ethiopia. Guinea, Mali. Mauritania. Nicara-
lion in 1993, bringing the total of :nch reduc-    gua, Sio Tom6 and Principe, Sierra Leone,
tions since 1988 to almost $100 billion. The    Tanzania, and Zambia.
'Brady" type of debt and debt-service reduc-       Restructuring of official bilateral debt under
tion operation carried out by Argentina in April   Paris aub auspices also contributed to debt re-
1993 rrduced the face value of its debt by close    duction. During 1993, agreement was reached
to $3.3 billion. Jordan canie to an agreement   with eleven countries to reschedule or restruc-
with its commercial creditors in December   ture$1.2billionindebts Sixofthe agreements-
1993 to restructure an estimated $900 million of   with Benin, Burkdna Faso, Guyana, Mauritania,
principal and arrears. The Dominican Repub-    Mozambique, and Viet Nam-were reached
lic, after reaching agreement in principle with    under enhanced Toronto terms. In November
bank creditors in May 1993 to restructure $1.1    1993 the French government canceled F800
billion of principal and arrears, continued to    million of the debt of four CFA countries, and,
make progress towards a final agreement,   in the wake ofthe devaluation of the CFA franc
while Bulgaria reached an agreement in princi-   in January 1994, France proposed canceling
ple with its creditor banks on restructuring $9.3    another F25 billion owed by the CFA Zone
billion of commercial bank debt. Brazil also    countries affected by the exchange-rate adjust-
continued discussions on a restructuring of    ments. The focus of the debt strategy, espe-
about $50 billion of obligations.2              cialy for the severely indebted low-income
Use of the other main venue for commercial   countries, continues to shift from repeated re-
debt reduction, the Debt- reduction Facility for    schedulings to the maintenance of a positive
IDA-only Countries, also increased. This facil-   cash flow as a means of accelerating the re-
ity, created in 1989, provides grants to eligible   sumption of these countries' extemal viability.
[ A members to reduce their commercial debt.
Significant bilateral official cofinancing sup-
port has also been made available for facility-   :2In April 1994. Brai implemented the deal with its ctn-
mercial creditors and cxchanged old debt for new long-
supported operations. By the end of 1993, five    term bonds. The debt collateralized by the zcro-coupon
operations had been completed: Niger and          bonds amounts to S:7 bilon.



28   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Accumulated interest arrears were reduced   fers to developing countries were positive for
by about $10 billion in 1993. the second year in   the fifth consecutive year. They were also sub-
succession that arrears fell rather than in-   stantial, amounting to 2.1 percent of develop-
creased. A large portion of this reduction came   ing country GDP, an increase from 1.8 percent
from clearance of arrears in Latin America, es-  in 199'
pecially Peru. and the former Soviet Union.   Because the flow of FDI to industrial coun-
Rescheduled interest payments in 1993 were   tries declined, developing countries are esti-
estimated at $15 billion, up slightly from the   mated to have increased their share of global
previous year's $14.2 billion.              E:DI from 31 percent in 1992 to around 35 per-
Despite the increase in developing country   cent An improved economic climate has made
debt stocks, key debt ratios did not worsen as   foreign investment attractive in many coun-
economic and trade conditions improved. Al-  tries; privatization of state-owned enterprises
though the ratio of developing countries' long-   has also boosted inflows, especially in Latin
term debt to GNP rose to 31.7 percent from    America and Eastern Europe. China, by far,
29.6 percent in 1992, the increase partly re-   was the largest recipient of Fl)I, with $15 bil-
flected large currency devaluations that re-   lion flowing into the country in 1993, up $4 bil-
duced the dollar value of GNP in some Middle   lion over the 1992 total.3 In general, E1DI
Eastern. European, and Central Asian coun-   continues to be concentrated in a limited num-
ties. Significant increases in the outstanding   ber of developing countries: Five countries-in
debt of East Asian and South Asian countries,   order of FDI amounts, China, Mexico, Argen-
as well as of the FSU, also contnrbuted to the   dna, Malaysia, and Thailand-received 59 per-
rise. The long-term debt service-to-exports ra-   cent of FDI flows. Regionally, FDI favored
tio remained constant at 16.3 percent. This ra-   East Asia ($25 billion), Latin America ($18 bil-
tio has hovered around the 16 percent mark for   lion), and Europe and Central Asia ($9 billion).
four years in a row.                        Flows to most low-income countries were stag-
nant, however, reflecting the slow growth of
Capital Flows on the Increase               official flows and the lack of access of most of
Aggregate long-term net resource flows to   these countries to private capital markets. In
developing countries--defined as net flows of   some instances, low-income countries have
long-term debt, grants (excluding technical as-   suffered from a lack of enthusiasm by the pri-
sistance), and equity investment (foreign direct   vate sector-for example, commercial banks in
and portfolio-equity investment)-are esti-   sub-Saharan Africa.
mated to have increased by $20 billion to $177  Portfolio-equity flows appear to have been
billion in 1993 (see Table 2-4). Net flows of   simflarly concentrated, with three quarters of
long-term debt of $77 billion were the largest  the $13 billion total going to East Asia and
single component of aggregate resource flows.   Latin Amenca. Developing country securities
Of these debt flows, $28 billion was from offi-   are currently underrepresented in the portfo-
cial creditors. Official creditors also provided   lios of industrial country investors, given their
grants of $36 billion, up $1 billion from 1992;   big diversification benefits and higher risk-
official finance, therefore, amounted to $63 bil-   adjusted returns. If countries persist with their
lion, up $9 billion from th: previous year.  policy reforms, a gradual rebalancing of these
Net foreign direct invesTment (FDI) rose 19   growing portfolios is likely to increase private
percent, or $9 billion, to $56 billion. Equity-   flows to developing countries significantly. At
portfolio investment, which reached $13 billion   the same time, such flows are lkely to be mor
in 1992, stayed at that level. In addition to F1D   volatile than FDI because they are more sen-
and portfolio investment, private flows in the   sitive to global interest-rate movements and to
form of long-term debt amounted to $44 billion.   positive or negative "bandwagon" effects.4
Private sources, therefore, are estimated to
have been responsible for 64 percent of overal    Primary Commodity DevelopmnDts
net resource flows to the developing countries,  Primary commodity market trends in 1993
an increase of more than 150 percent since   were mixed, with nonoil commodity prices ris-
1990. This amount, in constant dollars,   ingmodestly and oil prices falling sharply once
matches the level attained in the early 1980s   again. The dollar index of nonoil commodity-
before the onset of the debt crisis.
Aggregate long-term net transfers to devel-
oping countries-defined as net resource flows
less interest payments on long-term debt and   3These figres may bc inlated by Chinse capital that is
profits on FDI-increased by $12 billion to $92    1%uted through Hong Kong back into Chinaand then re-
billion, as increased net flows more than offset   MTm turbt'e  e arly in ln4 in the energing coutny boud
the increase in interest and profits. Net trans-    markets is a tesament to the volatility of such flows.



World Trode Growth Slows   295
Table 2-5. Commodity Prices, 198693
(average annal peretage charUg)
Commodiy price                   1986-91     1991      1992       1993
In current-dollar terms
Food and beverags               --4.4      -2-1      -6.6        0.7
Nonfood agriculture              4.6       -0.8      -4.9       -5.4
Metals and minerals              6.1       -Li       -IA       -14.6
Total nonoil                  -09        -3.0       -4.         1.4
Petroleum                        7.7      -18.4      -0       -[1.6
In real ternmt
Total nonoil                    -5.5       -5.1      -8.2         1.0
Petroleum                       2'7       -20.2      -4.6      -12.1
In special drawing tight (SDRs)
Total nonoil                    -3.8       -3.8      -6.9        2.3
Petrleum                         43       -19.A      -33       -10.8
Naos Weights in the commodity price indcxes are commodity exports of al devdoping countries.
a. Deflated by unit-value index of mnan_uf   exports from the G-5 counries (Frianc Germany. Japan. the United
Kingdom, and the United States) to the developing counties.
Soumuc World Bank.
prices was 1.4 percent higher than in 1992, sup-   output capacity and higher world production
ported by gradually reviving growth in the    added to the downward pressure on prices in
industialized countries, continued growth in   aluminum and iron ore. Increased exports from
the developing countries, and lower interna-   Russia affected the aluminum and nickel mar-
tional interest rates (see Table 2-5)_ In terms of   kets. Late in the year, lead, zinc, and nickel
constant 1990 dollars (using the unit-value in-   prices rallied to varying degrees, reflecting the
dex of exports ofmanufictured goods from the    more substantial production cutbacks that
five largest industrialized countries to the de-   have taken place in these industries.
veloping countries as the deflator) nonol prices  Crude-oil prices fell by $2 a barrel, or 11.6
were up i percent. By either measure, the    percent, to $1530. Much of the decline oc-
slight increase in 1993 was the first in five years   curred in the second half of the year. The pres-
and followed a 27 percent fall (in constant dol-   sure on oil prices derived from several sources.
lar terms) during the period 1988-92. Indeed,   A weak increase in demand by the industrial-
constant dollar prices in 1993 were almost 50   ized countries was more than offset by higher
percent below their postwar average. Ifthe rise    output from the North Sea and Canada Al-
in the nonoil commodity price index was mild,   though production fell steeply in the FSU and
it was at least fairly steady over the course of   Eastern Europe, consumption fell a little more
the year; by the fourth quarter, prices were 3.7   steeply yet, relcasing more oil to the market.
percent above the cyclical low reached in the    Fmally, although demand for oil increased in
same period of 1992. On a fourth quarter-to-   the developing countries (by about I million
fourth quarter basis, the largest contributions   barrels a day), output in these countries in-
to the pick-up in prices were made by bever-   creased even more (by about 1.2 million barrels
ages, grains, and timber-                     a day). OPEC countries were responsible for
Metals and minerals suffered the steepest   two thirds of the production increase.
price decline of any commodity group in 1993,
averaging 14.6 percent lower than in 1992. In    World Trade Growth Slows
constant dollar terms, the price index of this  The rate cf growth in the volume of world
group fell to its lowest level in the whole post-   merchandise exports slowed to an estimated
war period. Prices for all the main industrial   2.6 percent in 1993 (see Table 2-6). The two
metals (copper, tin, nickel, aluminum, lead,   most important reasons for the slowdown were
zinc, iron ore) fell sharply; only precious met-   the recession in Europe (which curbed intra-
als prices moved higher- Overall world demand    Europe trade, the largest part of the trade of
for industrial metals was broadly flat or lower   individual European counties,' as well as im-
than in the previous year, as increased demand    ports from the rest of the world) and sluggish
in the United States and in the developing
countries was offset by weakness in Europe,   5Because of the merger in trade-accounting procedures in
Japan, and the transitional economies of Cen-    the European Union. it is generally thought that intra-
tral and Eastern Europe and the FSUP  Surplus  European trade was underreported.



30   The Economic Scene: A Globol Perspecflve
Table 2-6  Selected Trade-perormance Indicators, 1970-93
(average animal pereeg change)
Cuntry group and indicator     19704-0   1980-90   1991    1992   1993
Low and middle-income countres-
Import volume                  3.5      0.8     11.3    8.6    6.5
Export volume                  2.7      3.6     11H1    5.6    3.8
Terms of trade                 0.7    -3.3    -5.5   -0.8   -1.7
Sub-Saharan Africac
Import volume                 -0.5    -4.9       8.8   -1.0    4.0
Export volume                 -0.7      2.1      2.3    1.9    2.4
Terms of trade                -0-1     -5.8     -8.7     4.2   -9.0
Asia
Import volume                  73       7.0     16.4    9.4   11.2
Export volume                  8.5      9.6     16.2   12.5    7.4
Terms of tade                 -0.8    -1.7      -0.2   -0.3      1.7
Eumpe and Ceral Asia
Import volume                  2.4      3.5      2.4   -t.0    0.8
Export volume                  4.0      3.0     13.3   -1.4   -4.0
Terms of tade                 -0.9      1.2    -9.8   -05    -0.3
Middce East and Nortk Afiica
Import volume                  5.7    -4.5       3.6    10.2    1.0
ExOrt volume                  -2.4    -1.6       9.3   -0.4      12
Terms of trade                 4.6    -7.2   -12.9   -02    -7.2
Lats America and the Caribbean
Import volume         .        0.1.   -2.5      21.0   19.0    7.6
Export volume                  2.5      2.7    5i0       6.3    5.6
Tenrs of trade                -0.3     -2.8    -3.7   -33    -3.7
Memorandum item
World export volume            4.2      4.6    . 6.1    3.5       2.6
Non: Trade volumes measured in consant 1987 prices and exchang rates. Terms of trade are cakuabted as the ratio of
export price to import price.
a. Estimated.
b. Inuding rpublics of thc fonner Soviet Union.
c. Excluding South Afica
SoUncR World Bank.
growth in Japan. The recovery in the United     Two developments in 1993-the conclusion
States, which caused demand for imports to    of the Uruguay Round of the GATT and of the
rise, was not sufficient to offset the dampening    NAFTA among Canada, Mexico, and the
effect on world trade of the adverse conditions    United States-underlined the importance for
in Europe and Japan. Estimates by the GATT   the future of two coexisting trends, one to-
suggest that trade in commercial services may    wards broad multilateral trading arrangements
have increased by only 3 percent in nominal   under the GATT and the other towards re-
terms to reach S1,030 billion, as against a 12   gional integration arrangements (RlAs).
percent rise in 1992.                           Accordingto theGATTSecretariat, the Urm-
Reflecting these conditions, the growth of   guay Round is expected to generate an increase
merchandise export volumes from the low-   in merchandise trade of 12 percent by the year
income and middle-income countries deceler-   2005 (or roughly $745 billion in 1992 dollars)
ated to an estimated 3.8 percent. Export   over the level that would have existed by then
growth in Asia slowed from 12.5 percent to a    had trade grown only at its average for the pe-
still robust 7.4 percent, while Latin Amercan    riod 1980-91 (4.1 percent). The largest in-
export growth slowed from 6.3 percent to 5.6   creases are expected in clothing (60 percent);
percent. Exports from the Europe and Central   textiles (34 percent); agricultural, forestry, and
Asia region, with their greater focus on West-   fisheries products (20 percent); and processed
era European markets, fell 4 percent.        food and beverages ([9 percent). Estimates



World Trade Growlh Slows   31
suggest that world income could increase by at   ing about 50 percent over seven years. Latin
least I percent. or some $212 billion to $270    America will also gain, but proportionately
billion annually (1992 dollars). Of that amount,   less. Its food exporters (Argentina, Chile, and
$80 billion is expected to accrue to developing    Uruguay, in particular) will benefit from reduc-
countries. The regional effects on exports and    tions in agricultural subsidies. Latin American
real incomes are likely to vary significantly, dc-   economies are also likely to benefit from re-
pending largely on the market-access provi-   ductions in tariffs on metals and minerals, and
sions of the round (see Box 2-1)               they have little to lose on preferences. Sub-
Gains for Asia wili be substantial. Quota-   Saharan Africa's gains from  the Uruguay
constrained exporters of textiles and clothing    Round will be limited by the low proportion of
(mainly in Southeast Asia and East Asia, in-   manufactures in its exports. Nevertheless,
cluding China) will benefit greatly from the    flster world growth resulting from the round's
slow phaseout (over a ten-year period) of the    pa-tial lberalization of trade would provide ad-
Multi-Fibre Arrangement, with quotas increas-   ditional support at the margin for prices of, and
Box 21L The Uruguay Round, Market Access, and the Delopig Countries
For each of the 118 participants in the Uruguay    MFN tarff rates are liely to outweigh the losses
Round, the increase in national income resultng   from prference erosion, even for exportrs re-
from the successfiil conclusion of the round will   ceiving prefaernces.
come from two principal sources: first, more ef-  The rduction in duties that apply to develop-
ficient use of domestic resources when domestic   ing counies is estimated at 34 percent-less than
distortions, such as ntade barriers, are reducedor   the 38 percent reduction on industrial products
removed; and second, increased access to mar-   from all sources-and the figures for clothing and
kets of trading partners.                   footwear (of particular interest to devcloping
It is estimated that implementation of the    countries) are even lower. Nevertheless, the ef-
market-access provisions of the round could add   fects on trade creation will be large even for such
between S200 billion and $300 bilion am 1992 do-   products because existing taiff rates on them are
Jars) annually to world income. These figres are   the highest, and the percentage decline in the
probably an underestimate; they do not include   tarif-inclusive price in importing countries will
services, and no attempt has yet bevn rn. de to   be substantiaL Moreover, where a quantitative
capture the effects on productivity growth of   restriction (rather than the tarifD is the binding
greater openness in trade. Even at the 'under-   restaint under the Multi-Fibre Arrangement. the
estimated" level, ful implementation of the Urn-   extent of the increase in market access may be
guay Round could boost the GDP of developing   larger than the cut in the tariff alone would indi-
economies by almost $80 billion (in 1992 doElars)   cate.
a year. Devdoping country gains fm agricul-   A disappointing result of the agreement is that
tural liberaizon alone are estimated at between   tariff escalation will continue for agricultural
$20 billion and S60 billion a year, depencEng on    products. It was hoped that discrimination
the extent of each economy's hlberalzaton,  against processed commodities would be re-
Improved market access foragricultural and in-   duced, thus enhancing strategies for natural
dustrial products will result primaily from broad   resource-based industlization. But the agreed
reductions in tariffs and more control of quanti-   reductions in tariffs, whether viewed in absolute
tative restrictions and subsidies. In conast to the    or percentage terms, do not clearly rise or fall
situation for industrial products, increased mar-   with the level of processing.
ket access for agricultural products will involve  Considerable progress has been made in the lat-
limiting the use of domestic support policies. Re-   est agreecmnt toward the goal of increasing the
duction of export subsidies by industrial cota-   proportion of tariffs that are bound (subject to
ties wil boost the competitiveness of exports   commitmncuts not to raise the tariff rate). This will
from developing countries,                  signficantly reduce exporter riskL For industrial
The effect of the reduction in most-favored-   products, virtually all tariffs in developed and
nation (MFN) tariffs on individual suppliers de-   transition econonues are bound under current of-
pends on whether the importing country gives the   fers, and developing countries have offered to in-
product MFN. preferential, or free-trade treat-   crease the proportion of bound tariffs to 65
ment. ForMFIN imports there is an unambiguous    percent. For agricultural products there is a sub-
increase in the volume of sales in the importing    stantial increase in the proportion of tariff lines
countryfollowing a tariffreduction. In the case of   subject to bindings, especialy in the developing
imports alhrady receiving preferential or free-   economies, where there is a fivefold increase
trade-area treatment, the reduction in MFN tariff  (from 17 to 89 percent). For the fit time in the
rates can reduce margins of preference. inducing    GATTs history the proportion of bound tariff
buyers to switch to competing suppliers. Analy-   lines wil be broadly the same foragricultural and
ses suggest that the trade gains from reductions in   nonagricultural products.



32   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
volume demands for, primary commodities of   unions. In a customs union, members not only
significance to the region. A point of concern to   reduce tariffs among themselves; they also
African countries is that reductions in tariffs   adopt a common foreign trade policy against
will reduce the margin of preference enjoyed   nonmembcrs. Common markets, in turn, ex-
by the exports from African countries under   pand the parameters of a customs union by al-
current unilateral prefercntial arrangements  lowing free movement of labor and capital
such as the Lome Convention. However, the   among members; in an economic union, mem-
limited nature of these preferences and the   bers further expand those parameters by ex-
gradual phasing-in period of the new provisions   plicitly pursuing harmonization of their
are likely to limit adverse effects.      microeconomic and macroeconomic policies
Over the next fifteen years, the NAFTA will  ("deep integration").
remove barriers to trade and investment flows  The trend towards increased regionalization
within North America; it also sets the stage for   of world trade is long standing. A recent GATT
reforms in domestic policies to foster trade and   study shows that the amount of world trade oc-
competition within an area rivaling the Euro-   curring within regions as a share of world GDP
pean Union in economic size. The NAFTA's  rose from 7 percent in 1948 to 17 percent in
main effect will be to improve the growth pros-   1990, driven mainly by the performance of
pects of Mexico, which is required by the   Western Europe. However, this rise did not
agreement to lberalize its policies the mostand   choke offtrade between regions, as the amount
which should consequently experience a signif-   of intraregional trade as a share of GDP has
icant boost in its exports. Economic models es-  remained fairly stable at between 15 percent
timate that in the short term, the NAFTrA will  and 16 percent.
be responsible for increased exports to the  The future of "benign regionalism," which
United States of 11 percent and 9 percent from    minimizes harm to outsiders and contrbutes to
Mexico and Canada, respectively, while ex-   world trade and welfare, depends critically on
ports to the United States from elsewhere   a commitment to maintaining and firthering
could fall by small amounts. One drawback is   openness and multilateral cooperation among
that the NAFTA's domestic content regula-  trading blocs. In this regard, the successful
tions could prevent the agreement's three   completion of the Uruguay Round has helped
member countries from relying on some low-   to alleviate concern that the "new regional-
cost (non-NAFTA) sources of production   ism" might substitute for multilateral trade lib-
inputs-a factor that would restrict the ability   eralization. In recognition of the potential
of members to use their NAFTAtariff and non-   threat posed by RIAs, the Uruguay Round
tariff preferences.                       strengthens existing GATIT rules that forbid
The passage of the NAFTA and the deepen-   barriers against third parties from rising
ing of the European Union under its single-  through the creation of an RA. Further, the
market program are illustrative of the renewed   round will strengthen surveillance of RIAs, an
interest in RlAs, a trend referred to as the   effort that will undoubtedly be pursued by the
'new regionalism."                        new World Trade Organization (WTO), which
RIAs, which entail reciprocal negotiation of   will succeed the GATT in 1995. The WTO, de-
trade preferences among participants, can take   signed by the Uruguay Round participants to
several forms. These extend from preferential   enforce the GATr's free trade rules, will have
trading arrangements and free trade arrange-  the power to levy trade penalties against coun-
ments (under which participants levy lower, or   tries by a semijudicial disputes procedure that
eliminate, respectively, tariffs on imports from    will no longer allow countries to ignore findings
each other while maintaining independent   against them.
trade policies toward third parties) to customs



33
Section Three
Major World Bank Programs: Fiscal Year 1994
World Development Report 1990 outlined a   area. Aid donors are increasingly channeling
strategy for reducing poverty based on experi-  their assistance to this area and are asking the
ences from developing countries across the   Bank to coordinate the aid flows.
world. How this strategy should be imple-    The Human Resources Development and
mented in the World Bank's operations was   Operations (HRO) vice presidency is the focal
subsequently spelled out in three documents:   point of the Bank's human resources and pov-
the policy paper. Assistance Strategies to Re-   erty operations. Operational relevance and cli-
duce Poverty. the Poverty Reduction Hand-   ent orientation are the main criteria used for
book, and a World Bank Operational Directive   selectiing tasks in the human resources devel-
on poverty reduction. The yardstick to evalu-   opment sectors.
ate the Bank's progress in implementing the  During the past year. demand was also heavy
poverty-reduction strategy is the extent to  for HRO's analytical services The executive
which the Bank is implementing the strategies   directors of the Bank, as well as the six oper-
articulated in the three documents.     ational regions, requested a number of analyt-
During fiscal 1994, the Bank continued to  ical papers on several critical issues: higher
make progress in implementing its poverty-   education (see Box 3-1), gender policy, and
reduction strategy both through its lending op-   population. The dissemination of information
erations and a strengthened policy dialogue.  through the vice presidency's Working Papers
Analysis is also being strengthened to ensure   series and Dissemination Notes. as well as
that the Bank's country-specific assistance   through population and health/nutrition news-
strategies develop the most relevant mix of  letters and the electronic network, has proven
lending for each country, as well as to improve   popular with task managers and external audi-
the targeting and design of its operations. The   ences alike.
Bank, in both the central and regional vice  Tools for Reducing Poverty. By a variety of
presidencies, now systematically monitors   measurements-through its lending program.
how it supports government efforts to reduce   development of country-assistance strategies
poverty. At the planning stage, each adjust-  and the policy dialogue, and analysis of pov-
ment operation is classified as to whether or   erty issues-the Bank continued to advance
not it is poverty focused, and each investment   during the year in its work to reduce poverty-
project is classified as to whether or not it is in  The lending program for hluman resources
the program of targeted interventions (PTI).   development (comprising lending to educa-
Each region periodically outlines what  tion; population. health. and nutrition; and the
progress is being made in implementing the   social sector) continued to be robust during
Bank's poverty-reduction strategy and what  fiscal 1994. attracting $3.104 million in com-
special initiatives are being undertaken to   mitments (15 percent of total Bank commit-
strengthen these efforts. To strengthen both   ments). Eighteen percent of all new IDA
the technical and analytical tools being used in   commitments-some $1,198 million-were di-
the Bank's operations, the central vice presi-  rected toward human resources development.
dencies are supporting the regions by refining   Lending for the agriculture and water supply
methodologies for analyzing policy issues, dis-  and sanitation sectors, which play an important
seminating best-practice analysis and project  role in supporting the Bank's poverty-
design, and providing training.          reduction efforts, increased by more than $400
omillion.
Hunman Resources Developmen               Lending for projects in the PTI was 25 per-
Developing countries are turning to the Bank   cent of total investment lending (see Table 3-1).
for intellectual leadership and fnancial assis-  IDA commitments for the PTI. as a share of
tance for investments in the human resources  IDA investment lending. increased to 43 per-



34    Mapor World Bank Programs FiWal Yeor 1994
Box 3-1. Higher Eduamom  Lsfom of Experiee
Higher education is in caisis in all parts of the  An expanded menu of teriay education would
world, bothdevelopedanddeveloping.astudyby    find universitics being complemented by other
the World Bank finds. And, as might be expected,   types of institutions such as polytechnics, short-
the crisis is most acute in the developing world,   cycle professional technical institutes. comnun-
where fiscal constraints are tighter and pressures    nity colleges. and "distance" and 'open-
for expansion of cnrollment are greater.      learning" programs. Typically. these higher-
The study-the third in a series on education    education supplements are often less costly to set
subsectors'-analyzes recent lessons of    up and operateand are therefore attractive to pri-
developing-ountry experience in higher educa-   vate entepreneurs.
tion reform at both the national and institutional  To relieve the financial burden irnposed on
level to show how countries contemplatig re-   public institutions by increasing enrollments, the
form, orjust starting on its path, might realize the    World Bank study advocates sweeping reforms in
goals of greater efficiency, quality, and equity in   the ways slch institutions are funded. For exam-
higher education. The study also charts the prob-   ple, students should be required to pay a greater
able course of World Bank lending to the subsec-   share of their education costs, public subsidies
tor in the years to come.                     for noninstructional expenses-housing and
Based on a review of experience across coun-   meals, for instance-should be sharply reduced
tries, the study suggests-without trying to pro-   if not eliminated altogether, tax codes should be
vide a blueprint for each country-that higher   modified to encourage philanthropy by alumni
education reform might best be direted at (a) ex-   and private industry, and public higher-education
panding the menu of higher education choitc in   institutions should be encouraged to pursue
terms of types of insiutions and modes of deliv-   income-generating activities. At the very least,
cry (which, concomitantly, would stimulte the    govermnents should stop penalizing entrepre-
developinent of prvate institutions); (b) provid-    neurial activities as they do, for example, when
ing incentives for public institutions to diversify   they reduce budget allocations by the sae
sources of funding-, (c) linking public funding    amounts as public institutions make on 'non-
ciosely to performance; (d) redefining the rolc of   core" activities.
government in highereducation; and (e) introduc-  The study reports that, as a result of the crisis
ing policies explicitly designed to increase the    in publicly funded higher education, govern-
quality and equity of higher education.       meat's role in the subsector is being redefined
cent' Ptojects are included in the Pm  if they    (including the Bank), throughout Asia, Africa,
include a specific mechanism for reaching the    and Latin America, has revealed beneficiary
poor or if the participation of the poor signifi-
cantly exceeds the proportion of the population
as a whole.t                                     'Mm Bknlakcss vey seriously its commitment to incrse
Of the twenty-three adjustment operations    'the shares of poverty-trgeted investments and social-
approved during the year, seventeen, or three     stor lcnding during the three-year period encompassed
of every four, were poverty focused.3             by the tenth replenishment or IDA resourcs (fiscal 1994-
It is now widely acknowledged that partici-     9. Care shoud be taken. howevcr. not to use the P  as
pation by beneficiaries in the design and imple-    the sole measure or the BankIs poverty-reduction efforts.
In somc cases, dhe greates contrbution to povery reduc-
mentation of projects can often be an important   tion in a given county could corne from the implemenra-
determinant of project effectiveness. As a re-    dion of a well-designed adjustment progam. In addition.
sult, the Bank's use of participatory method-     may PT[ proJects ar ecxpmimertal and. as a result, loan
ologies-including bencfLciary assessments         amouras can be cxpected to be small. For these reasons.
o.oie-i n  b r  atherse may bc naisma  fluctuations in the size oftbe Pt] frwm
participatory rural assessments, and participa-   yr to ye, although the trend line sbould be an increas-
tory workshops to fine-tune project desiis gug one.
on the rise. A preliminary review of fiscal 1994  A description ofeach projeci thei  I that was appre 'ed
operations shows that ninety-six out of the       during fiscal 1994 can ie found in the project summaries in
Section Five of this Annual Report. The PT! procts are
total of 228 projects included participation by   maked by an asterisk.
primary stakeholders (individual beneficiaries,    3 A description of each povety-focused adjustment opera-
people affected in one way or another by the      tion that was approved during fiscal 1994 cn be found in
project, community organizations, user            the proect summaries in Section Five of this Arnual Re-
project, cmuiyoport_ These operations are marked by a pound sign (#)-
groups, and others such as producer groups        A description of each project approved during fiscal 1994
and cooperatives)Y                                 with participation by prinary stakeholders can be found in
The salutary effect of beneficiary parti :ipa-    the project summaies in Secion Five of this report Ihe
tion is now becomiing clearer. A study otl- 121    fpi e are marked with a t.
.nsobon l1  Dpa Narayan. 1994. The Contribution Of Peoples Par-
rural water supply and sanitation proje ts.%    fic*prion: 121 Rural Water Supply Ptojecs. The World
supported by eighteen development agencies        Bank: Washington. D.C.



Human Resources Development   35
Rather than aiming at direct control of the entire  Lending in support of higher-education reform,
subsector, a goveument's main responsibity is   however, can be justified, as Bank financing
becoming that of providing an enabling policy    helps countries free up some of the incremental
environment-for private as well as public   public resources needed to improve quality and
institutions-and of using the leverage of public   access at the primary and secondary levels. Prop-
funding to stimulate institutions of higher learning    erly designed projects also allow the subsector to
to meet national training and research needs more    operate more efficiently and at lower public cost.
efficiently.                                 Highereducation lending will be directed to coun-
Encouraging an expanded menu of opportuni-   tries prepared to adopt an education policy fiame-
ties for higher education, providing incentives for    work that stresses a differentiated institutional
diversifying fumding sources, and relaxing gov-   structure and a diversified resource base, with
erumental control are necessary elements for im-   greater emphasis on private provision of services
proving higher education. By themselves,   and private funding. In these countries, Bank
however, tbey are insufficienL The Bank study    lending is supporting, and wil continue to sup-
goes on to say that the final element of the reform    port, sector-policy reforms, institutional develop-
proce  must be implementation of policies that   ment, and improvements in quality.
increase the quality of higher education and im-
prove the access of traditionally disadvantaged
groups. Greater equity of participation is impor-
tant not only for economic efficiency but for so    -
cialjustice as welt                           a he fm study. on prmary education was iscussed
The Bank's latest examination of an education  by tic executive board in fiscal 1990. while polices for
subsector points to the conclusion that higher ed-  vocatioral and technical education and taing were
ucation imestments have lowersocial rates of re-    the subject of a board discussion in fica 1991.
turn than do investments in primary and    2Cost-sharing cannot be ipipnenauted equitably, how-
seondary-oducadon and  dw. investmentsi; ba-    ever, without scholarshap progras ta guarane ne-
secodaryeductionandthatinvetmens inha- essay iaci supporto aocdn,ically quainedt poor
sic education have a more dirc tiact on pov-    students unable to absorb the direct and indirect (fore-
erty reductioa. As a result, the Bank wit continue  gwcang) costs of igher educabion and wiout a
to give priority to lending for primary and lower    fimnining studet4-lana progam to assist studcnts
secondary educaton-                            who need to borrow for their eduaton.
participation as the single most important    Bank's experience in participatory approaches
element in determining the overall quality of    and to identify ways to support participation in
implementation. Similarly, the Operation Eval-   borrower countries. The result-a report to the
uation Department's Annual Report of Evalu-    Bank's management, developed by a learning
ation Results 1992 listed beneficiary    group of some fifty Bank staff involved in par-
participation and borrower ownership as two    ticipatory work-has been widely reviewed by
important features of the twenty-four opera-    Bank staff and outside experts in participation.
tions classified as outstanding.                The report puts forward a number of recoin-
Fiscal 1994 marked the culmination of a    mendations, including ensuring that all projects
three-year Bankwide learning process on par-    under preparation include (a) a provision for
ticipation. which has sought to review the    systematically identifying and seeking the par-
Table 3-1. Program of Tareted Interventions, 1992-94
(mllions of US dollars; fiscal years)
1992              1993              1994
Towu World Bank P71 lending                       3,837              4,674             4,441
As share of investment lending (96)                24                27                25
As share of all Bank lending (%)                   18                20                21
Total number of Pf pmjects                         57                72                63
IDA Pll lending                                    1.88              2.137             1,853
As share of IDA investment lending (96             43                41                43
As share of all IDA lending (%)                    28                32                28
Number of IDA PIU proects-                         35                44                35
Nonx: Inestment lending is defined as afl knding except for adjisusent. debt and debt-service reduction operations. and
emergency-reconsnzctzn operabons Dam for FY92 and FY93 have been revised to reflect tis definition.



36   Major Wcald Bank Program: Fiscl Year 1994
ticipation of relevant stakeholders and (b) shar-   fiscal 1994.' Eleven assessments were com-
ing responsibility for economic and sector   pleted, bringing the number of completed as-
work with a wide range of stakeholders. The   sessments to thirty-nine. By the end of fiscal
report was a focus of discussions at a May 1994    1995, ninety-four assessments for eighty-three
workshop on participatory development.   countries are scheduled to be completed.
hosted by the Bank, which included sixty non-   Strides were also made during the year toward
governmental organization (NGO) represen-   overcoming the lack of good household data on
tatives, staff from  donor agencies, and    poverty, although this remains a problem in
academics The workshop discussions helped    many countries. The most progress in data col-
prioritize the Bank's next steps in this area as   lection and analysis has been made in the Af-
it begins to mainstream  participatory ap-   rica region, where acquisition of recent
proaches in its work.                        household data has accelerated.
As a further means of encouraging a main-    In a report to the Bank's executive directors
streaming of participatory approaches, a    that was later made public,7 several lessons
$300,000 Participation Fund was established   from the Bank's past poverty-reduction work,
during the year to support a wide range of par-   as well as challenges for the future. were high-
ticipatory initiatives in the Banlc's lending and   lighted.
nonlending operations. The fund proved so     . The challenge for future country-
popular among task managers that a $200,000   assistance strategies is to ensure that they ad-
replenishment was approved to meet the heavy    dress the main poverty problems in each
demand.                                      country, that they complement efforts by gov-
Activities financed by the Participation Fund    ernment and donors to reduce poverty, and
included several workshops during project   that the appropriate mix of broad-based and
preparation involving beneficiaries, NGOs,   targeted lending instruments evolves for each
and government staff in discussions about   country.
project design; workshops were also funded     * Clearly the Bank is challenged to complete
that involved local communities in the evalua-   poverty assessments for all borrowing member
tion of participatory components of ongoing    countries, to continue to improve their quality,
projects. Building on this precedent, a $2 mil-  to enhance the quality of analysis through
lion Fund for Innovative Approaches in Hu-   greater coordination among donors, and to en-
man and Social Development was set up    sure that assessment findings are fully inte-
toward the end of the fiscal year. The fund wil   grated into country-wsistance strategies.
support efforts to promote participatory ap-  * Development of poverty-monitoring sys-
proaches and wil finance a limited number of   tems and expansion of countries' capacity to
social assessments of the potential impacts of   implement them is a priority. To date, only a
proposed projects.                          few poverty assessments have evaluated a
Country-assistance strategies and the policy    country's statistical svstem for monitoring
dialogue increasingly address poverty in a wide   poverty: even less attention has been given to
context. In particular. poverty issues are being    developing action planis for implementing
addressed comprehensively, both within the    poverty-monitoring systems over time.
context of human resources development and     Activities on Women in Development (WID).
more fully within the overall country-   According to a report written for the Septem-
assistance strategy (including macroeconomic   ber 1993 meeting of the Development Commit-
and sector policies) in the more than three   tee, the Bank has made progress in
dozen countries for which poverty assessments   implementing its operational strategy on WID.
or other poverty analyses have been com-   That strategy aims to reduce gender disparities
pleted. In the policy dialogue on country-   and enhance womenWs participation in the eco-
assistance strategies, poverty reduction is high
on the agenda. In particular. Bank staff are dis-  - -
cussing poverty reduction more frequently    heductio esom  arc auci t  Banks thert-
. . . . z~~~~~~~~~rduction efforts. A poverty assessment provides the bassis
than before with finance and planning minis-    fora collabomtive approach to poverty redaction by coun-
tries in the context of macroeconomic and sec-    try officials and the Bank. It also helps to establsh the
toral policies. In several countries (Belarus,    agenda of issues for th policy dialogue between the gov-
Ecuador, and Sierra Leone, for example). spe-    emment and the Bank and between the government and
agencis of the intemational donor connunity. The pro-
cial units have been created within those miin-    ccss of completing assessments for aD IDA borrowers has
istries to integrate the goal of poverty reduction  taken longer than orignally planned. This is mainly be-
more explicitly into economic planning.       cause of the timc-consuming process of overcoming data
In the area of analysis ofpoverty issues, sig-    constraints. developingappropriate analytical approaches.
and increasing government involvement in the process.
nificant progress was made in preparing pov-   7 Word Bank. 1994. Powvty Reducion and the WoriddwBa
erty assessments and other analytical work in    Progress in FLirat 1993. Washington. D.C.



Human Resources Development  37
nomic development or their countries by inte-  The policy paper outlined the rationale and
grating gender consideration in country-   strategy for integrating gender in Bank opera-
assistance programs. Of all projects approved   tions. Addressing gender issues is essential for
by the Bank in fiscal 1993, about one in three   the realization of the Bank's goal of reducing
included gender-targeted interventions.  poverty. In addition, reducing gender dispari-
The integration of WID issues into the   ties and enhancing women's participation in
Bank's economic and sector work continues.  economic development are entirely compatible
Almost half of the Bank's economic and sector   with the promotion of growth as well as with
reports contain WID-related analytical work.   environmentally sustainable development. The
Gender issues are also increasingly addressed   Bank is committed, therefore, to integrating
in poverty assessments, particularly in coun-   gender issues into the mainstream of its oper-
tries where the number of female-headed   ational, as well as its analytical, activities.
households is disproportionately high and  A new operational policy directive, issued in
where there are significant disparities in social   April 1994, states that it is the Bank's intention
indicators between males and females.    to reduce gender disparities and enhance wo-
According to the 1993 progress report, vari-   men's participation in economic development
ous lessons have already been learned from the   by integrating gender issues into country-
preparation by the Bank of best-practice pa-   assistance strategies. These issues will be iden-
pers on education, agriculture. safe mother-  tified through the use of various instruments
hood, and enterprise development and   (poverty assessments, country WID assess-
financial services. In agriculture, for example,   ments, public expenditure reviews, and other
it has been found that targeting special services   economic and sector work). Objectives and in-
to women does not guarantee success. Rather,  terventions for carrying out gender strategies
it is more effective to ensure that women's pro-   are then to be reflected in the Bank's lending
grams become part of the mainstream exten-   program and the design of lending operations.
sion services and to encourage women farmers  Implementation is to be monitored as part of
to participate in the services' design. Projects  the country-implementation review.
also need to be tailored to specific country or  The Bank is only one contributor on the in-
regional circumstances so that women's roles  temational scene that seeks to advance wom-
and needs can be properly taken into account.  en's status and participation in economic
Lessons learned by the Bank, by other do-   development. Other donors, as well as interna-
nors, and NGOs suggest some promising ap-  tional, national, and local institutions are also
proaches to overcoming the barriers to   playing important roles in closing the gender
improving the status and productivity of   gap. The Bank will continue to learn from, and
women. That combined experience points un-   collaborate with. other agencies and capitalize
ambiguously to five operational strategies that   on a wide range of expertise that exists in ad-
are key to improving the status and productiv-   vancing gender issues on the development
ity ofwomen: expanding the enrollment of girs   agenda. All these efforts, however, will be
in school, improving the health of women, in-  fruitful only with governments' leadership.
creasing their participation in the formal labor   commitment, and collaboration.
force, expanding their options in agriculture,  Population, Health, and Nutrition. Rapid
and providing financial services to them.  population growth in the world's poorest coun-
Until quite recently, WiD programs, includ-  tries is a matter of considerable concern be-
ing those ofthe Bank, tended to treat women as   cause of its posstble negative effects on efforts
a special target group of beneficiaries in  to reduce poverty, generate economic growth,
projects and progams. According to a recent   and preserve the environment.
Bank policy paper,' development organiza-  Althoughi the global picture is one of contin-
tions have begun to recognize, however, that   ued growth, rates of growth have begun to slow
the best way to ensure that women are not left  in many developing countries. The slowing of
at the margin of the development process is to   growth reflects a pervasive shift in reproduc-
analyze the relative roles and responsibilities of  tive attitudes and behaviors in those countries.
both men and women and to apply the insights   The pace of change varies by region, but fer-
gained from this analysis to the design of  tility declines are widespread.
projects and programs. This new approach,  Over the past three decades, the percentage
which focuses on gender relations in the family   of married women in developing countries us-
and in the community rather than on women in  ing some method of contraception has in-
isolation, constitutes the "gender and develop-
ment" approach. This is the focus that the    W World Bank. 1994 Enhanwing Women's Participazion in
Bank is now promoting to enhance women's    Economic Development. A World Dank Policy Paper.
participation in development              Washington. D.C.



38   Major Wold Bank Programs Fiscal Year 1994
creased from 1O percent to 51 percent-from 40    totaled $199 million for family-planning and
million users in 1960 to some 365 million in    population-policy components in fourteen
1990. Because of the large increase in the num-    health and social development projects. New
ber of women of reproductive age, however,   commitments vary considerably from year to
the total number of women not using contra-    year, but the trend has been steadily upward.
ception has declined little, leaving an estimated  The increasing complexity of population
350 million still to be served.                 projects offers particular challenges when it
During the 1990s, an additional 170 mil!ion    comes time for project supervision. Some of
individuals will move into their reproductive    the Bank's more successful population and
ages in developing countries; another 180 mil-   health projects-in Bangladesh and Kenya, for
lion are projected for the following decade. Just   example-have included provision for resident
to maintain the current level of coverage. ser-   management staff to strengthen supervision ca-
vices will have to be expanded to accommo-   pacity. The experience of other donors also
date 80 million to 90 million more contraceptive    suggests a strong relationship between the in-
users during each of these two decades. That   tensity of in-countrv management effort and
still leaves the challenge of providing services    project effectiveness. The Bank has been mak-
for at least 100 million married couples and at   ing a special effort to improve supervision and
least 20 million unmarnied irndividuals, many of   strengthen its skill mix in needed technical ar-
whom are at risk of contracting sexually trans-    eas and to assure that it is responsive to bor-
mitted diseases, as well, because needed con-   rower needs.
traceptive services are not available or are of   Health sector reform is a high priority. Since
poor quality.                                   the publication in July 1993 of World Develop-
As the number of potential clients increases,   ment Report 1993, which was devoted to the
the definition of what constitutes a population    issues of health reform, assistance has been re-
program  is expanding. It is now widely ac-    quested by more than three dozen countries for
cepted that programs must meet a wide range    assessing the burden of disease. Guidelines for
of the reproductive health needs of women    health-sector reform are now being prepared;
and men.9 In addition, they are increasingly   they will be published in fiscal 1995 as a com-
addressing other health concerns related to    panion volume to World Development Report
sexual activity and rer  luction-the AIDS    1993. Also under study are managed-care ar-
epidemic and other sexually transmitted dis-   rangements in both developing and industrial-
eases, for example. Similarly, the scope of pro-   ized countries, the efficacy of differing systems
grams is also expanding to include such groups    of health care, and pharmaceutical policies in a
as unmaried adolescents and males, particu-    number of countries. The goal of the last-
larly those who engage in high-risk sexual be-   named study is to assist borrowing member
havior, whose needs have not been served by    countries in formulating and enforcing policies
traditional modes of service provision.'0      that improve the access to, and quality of, es-
The Bank's role in population has been    sential drugs.
shaped by its comparative advantage in a num-     The upward momentum that has character-
ber ofareas: It brings strength in sector and eco-   ized recent lending trends for nutrition within
nomic analysis, which together provide a basis    Bank projects continues, assisted, in part. by
for policy dialogue between the Bank and bor-
rowing countries. This strength is particularly
relevant in the current population-policy envi-   ' The Development Commintee, ror example, in its April
romnent, in which fertility reduction is increas-  1994 communique following its spring meeting, noted tht
ingly being pursued as part of a broad range of   an -ntcnmcd poulation polatn cognize Lhe links
social policies, particularly those that improve  ton. health. invscnt in hunman resources, and envi-
the status of women, such as education.           ronmental degradation. "Family planning." the
The Bank has been ar. active player in the      communiqut went on to say, "is only one of the available
population field for the past twenty-five years  instruments and needs to be seen in the broadercontext or
population                           ~~~~~~~~~changing social paterns and the incresed awareness or
lending more than $1.7 billion to support pop-    womnps role.c
u.ation activities through more than 100    "'Thechangingnatureofpopulationprogramsandthechal-
projects. The value of the current portfolio     lenging popubtion issues of this decade and beyond will
stands at slightly more than $1 billion, repre-   be the subject or the 1994 Internationl Conferaene on
Population and Development-the third in a series or
senting seventy-three projects under Bank su-     United Nations conferences that started in Bucharest in
pervision. Many Bank projects include family      1974 and continued in Mexico City in 1984. These meet-
planning within larger health and nutrition      ings produced and refined the World Population Plan of
projects, leading to mutually reinforcing effects  Ation, whih has provided donors and developing coun-
tries with a framework. for population policies and -ction
for both better health and increased demand for   pmgars over the past two decades. The 1994 conference
family planning. Commitments in fiscal 1994      vwll be held in September in Cairo.



Human Resources Dewelopment   39
the recommendations for cost-effective inter-   countries that are changing from centrally
ventions in World Development Report 1993.   planned cconomies to market-responsive ones.
An additional focus within the Bank was gen-   One such project is in Hungary, which has in-
erated by the convening in late November of   troduced reform to its higher education system
the Bank's first major conference on hunger,   by promoting the concept that participating in-
"Overcoming Global Hunger-A Conference    stitutions must compete for investment funds
on Actions to Reduce Hunger Worldwide."       by submitting funding proposals to an impartial
Children three years old and younger and    national agency. This agency assesses the sub-
pregnant and lactating women remain the pri-   mitted proposals on their educational and eco-
mary target of nutrition operations in Bank    nomic merits through well-understood and
projects. Several recent projccts, however,   transparent criteria and procedures that em-
such as fiscal 1994's Maternal and Child Health    phasize economy and efficiency in the use of
Project in Argentina, include integrated early    public resources. A recent midterm review of
childhood-development components that ad-   the results has been encouraging; the new pro-
dress the full range of health, nutritional, and    cedures are being expanded to replace the en-
educational needs of young children in their   tire higher education funding mechanism, and
most critical years of development.           neighboring countries have shown interest in
Overall lending for population, health, and    replicating the system.
nutrition has increased substantially, from an  In July 1992, Lewis Preston, in a letter to
annual average of $103 million in new commit-   1,400 parliamentarians from twenty-six coun-
ments during the four-year period fiscal   tries about future lending by the Bank, wrote
1981-84 to an annual average of $1 ,307 million   that the Bank would increase it; support for
during the period fiscal 1991-94."            education projects in the period fiqcal 1993-95
Bank investments in education (which    over levels of the preceding three-year period.
amounted to $2,068 million in fiscal 1994) are    Commitments in fiscal 1993 and 1994 totaled
increasingly targeted toward getting girls into   $4,074 million, $336 million higher than in the
school and eliminating existing gender dispar-   period fiscal 1990-91. Mr. Preston also said
ities in participation, achievement, and attain-   that support by the Bank for basic education
ment; the objective is to empower women as    during riscal 1993-95 would rise above the 42
producers, reduce their dependence on hus-   percent mark achieved in fiscal 1992. Such sup-
bands and sons, and lower the fertility rate.  port amounted to 45.7 percent and 30.2 percent
The HRO vice presidency is actively in-   of total lending for education in fiscal 1993 and
volved in improving the design and implemen-    1994, respectively.
cation of the Bank's education projects. During  External Relations. The Bank is a partner
the past year, for example, senior staff were    with numerous United Nations organizations
actively involved in the implementation of a    and a variety of other international and bilat-
complex and comprehensive primary educa-   eral agencies, as well as with major NGOs. The
tion project in Uttar Pradesh-one of the most   HRO vice presidency pays close attention to
educationally deprived states of India. The    nurturing these relationships, to listening, to
project, supported in fiscal 1993 by a $165 mil-   sharing understanding of the problems being
lion IDA credit, focuses on the education of   faced, and to building collaborative relation-
girls and disadvantaged ethnic minorities. The    ships.
project design and its implernentation reflect a  During the past year, the Bank shared the
deep government commitment to the concept   podium in United Nations' fora to address de-
of education for all, both at the central govern-   velopment issues oi global reach. The Bank's
ment and at the gassroots level. This commit-   follow-up to environmental activities after the
ment has manifested itself in the ways that staff
and other resources have been assigned to the
project, in the interest of tep-level civil ser-    "In July 199z Lewis Preston president of the World Bank.
vants ad grassoots-lvcl NGO  in itsimple- said that the Bank planned to substanially increase lend-
vants and grassroots-level NGOs in its imple-   ing for population, hnelth, and nutrilionin both dollar-
mentation, and in the exceptionally fast pace   volume terms and as a prenta of total commitments-
with which project baseline studies and infra-  during the period fiscal 1993-95 as compared with the
stmcture are being carried out, facilitating sub-  three previous years.  iTring fiscal 1990-92 lendimg to the
sequent evaluation and measurements of          sector averaged S.l15a- Aillion annually and repreented 5
percent oftota Bank lending. During fiscal 1993-94. lend-
project achievements. The results of this       ing for population. health, and nutrition averaged $1,349
project are now being replicated in a much      million and amounted to 6 percent of total commitments.
Iarger, countrywide project.                    Mr. Preston also prqiected that lending for primary health
At the other u nd of the education spectrum,  would be more than S percent of total lending over the
Atthe otaffhver bend  ivoft edution spectum desigsameperiod. In riscal 1993 and 1994. commitments in sup
HRO staffhave been involved in the design and   port of prihary health amounted to 6 prerent and 4 -r-s
implementation of higher education projects in  ccitt of the total, repectively.



40   Major World Bank Programs Fiscal Year 1994
United Nations Conference on Environment    In the realm of lending operations. NCOs in-
and Development was discussed in the UN's  creasingly are designing, preparing, imple-
inter-Agency Committee on Sustainable De-   menting, and evaluating subprojects financed
velopment and in the Commission on Sustain-   through Bank-ansisted projects, while the ex-
able Development. The Bank also addressed   pansion of the policy dialogue has led to in-
environmental issues at such UN gatherings as   creased beneftciary ownership of Bank-assisted
the Small Island Economies Conference (held   projects. Social-fund projects worldwide and
in Barbados) and the Disaster Reduction Con-   food-security and nutrition projects in Africa
ference (held in Japan).                  have benefited from NGO involvement, while
The Bank actively participated in all phases   Pakistan's Social Action Program is an example
of the preparations for the Third Population   of the Bank's increasing commitment in support
and Development Conference, scheduled for   of participatory development. In the Pakistan
September 1994 in Cairo. The Bank provided   program, the Bank created a $10 million Partic-
travel grants to developing country NGOs to  ipatory Development Program Fund to support
ensure their full participation in the conference   various implementing organizations in their ef-
and its preparation. It also participated in the   forts to involve communities in the delivery of
preparations (including provision of back-   basic social services, such as primary education
ground papers on social and human resources   and health care and rural water supply.
development and grant funds to ensure NGO   One of the Bank's main goals in collaborat-
participation) for the Social Summit that will be   ing with NGOs has been to increase the insti-
held in Copenhagen in 1995. The Bank also co-  tutional capacity of project-implementing
sponsored, with the summit's secretariat and   organizations. To this end, the Bank has pro-
the government of the Netherlands, a meeting   vided, or has made arrangements with other
held in June 1994 in Zambia of a preparatory   organizations (very often NGOs) to provide,
expert group on poverty. The Bank's contnrbu-   capacity-building assistance to various NGOs
tion to the Conference on Women and   and communities. One such example is the
Development-to be held in Beijing in 1995-    capacity-building exercise for indigenous
included a special study on the economic po-   NGOs that has been launched in several Latin
tential of women, while the Second (Economic   American countries with grants from the
and Financial) and Third (Social, Humanitar-   Bank's Institutional Development Fund. This
ian, and Cultural) Committees of the UN Gen-   exercise stemmed directly from requests from
eral Assembly provided a forum for presenting   indigenous NGO leaders who attended the
updates on major Bank activities.         Latin American Second Interagency Work-
The Bank continues to coordinate project-  shop on Indigenous Development, held in
focused work with UN agencies in areas of mu-   Washington, D.C. in September 1993.
tual involvement, including food security with  The Bank is also helping governments ana-
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the   lyze their relationship with NGOs with a view
UN; health and education with the United Na-  to constructing a more enabling environment
tions Children's Fund (UNICEF); employment  for NGO activities. For example, it convened a
with the International Labour Office; AIDS   workshop in Uganda that brought together
and other health interventions with the World   NGOs, government officials, and donors todis-
Health Organization; environmental issues   cuss specially prepared reports on the coun-
with the United Nations Environment Pro-   try's NGOs and the policy environment in
gramme (UNEP); basic education with the   which they operate and to formulate a national
United Nations Educational, Scientific, and   acticn plan to promote the role of NGOs in
Cultural Organization, UNICEF, and tule   poverty reduction.
United Nations Development Programme        In the twice-yearly meetings of the Bank-
(UNDP); and water and sanitation and techni-   NGO Committee, topics such as popular par-
cal assistance with the UNDP. The Bank re-  ticipation and the social effects of structural
mains a cosponsor (with the UNDP) of the   adjustment programs were discussed. The
Energy Sector Management Assistance Pro-   Bank also consulted on an ad hoc basis with
graimme (ESMAP), designed to assist countries   NGOs on issues of particular concern. In May
in developing environmentally sound energy   1994, for example, discussions with NGO rep-
strategies and investments.              resentatives were held on the implementation
Cooperation with Nongovernmental Organiza-   experience of the Bank's forest policy in prep-
tions. Cooperation with NGOs continued to ex-   aration for a review in fiscal 1995 of the policy
pand in terms of both lending opertions (see   by the Bank's executive directors. A separate
Tables 3-2 and 3-3) and the policy dialogue.   consultation with NGOs in May 1994 helped
Some 50 percent of all Bank-approved projects  the Bank evolve strengthened indicators of de-
involved NGOs.                            velopment impact. Consultations were also



Human Resources Devapoment   41
Table 3-2. Patterns in World Bank-NGO Operational Collaboration, Fiscal Years
1974-94
Tota 1974-91      1992          1993           1994
-No.-         No.    %    No.    9         No.    96
By region (number of projects)
Africa                                204    n.a.    32    42*    31    41*        38    63*
East Asia and Pacific                  45    n.a.     8    17*    12    27*       22    51*
South Asia                             59    na.      9    39*    11    42*        15    79*
Europe and Cental Asia                  6    u.a.    4    29*       2      7*      10    24*
Latin America and the Caribbean        59   nu       1?.   277      14    28*     24    50*
Middle East and North Africa           is    na.    3    18*        3    16*        5    31*
Total                               391     100    68    31*    73    30*    114    50*
By sector (number of projects)
Adjustment related (incisocial funds)  27       7     8      12     5       7      12      11
Agriculture/rural development         150      38    22      32    14      19      36     32
Education                              41      10     6       9     6       8      10      9
Environment                            12       3    13      19    13      18      5       4
Industrylener                          35       9     6       9     8      11      13     11
Infrastructueurban development         63      16     4       6     8      11     24      21
Populaton, health, and nutrition       57      15     7     -10    16      22      14     12
Rehabilitation/reconstruction           6       2     2       3     3       4     -
Total                               391     100    68    100    73    100    114    100
Refens to percentag of NGO-involved projects in all Wodd Bank-alproved projects; na. = not available.
Tabk 3-3. Type and Function of NGOs in NGO-assocated Prjects, Fscal Years
1991-94
1991         1992           1993           1994
No.    %     No.    %      No.    %       No.    %
Total projects nvolving NGOs              89            68           73             114
By type of NGO (number of NGOs)
G;rassroots                             49    55    37    54    21         29      46    40
Indigenous                              66    74    52    76       58      79      80    70
International                           23    26    33    49        16     22      11    10
Unclassified                            -     -      -      -        1             19    17
Byfwnction (number offwrctions)
Advice                                  40    45    37    54       35      48      14    12
Design                                  39    44    31    46        17     23      60    53
Implementation                          85    96    59    87        57     78      99     87
Monitoringlevaluation                   15    17    26    38        33     45      38    33
Cofinancing                             23    26    10    15         1      1      11    10
NOTE: Te numbes in this table are estimates oftheways NGOs maybe involved in each project. Regardless of the acal
numberofNGOs involved ineach project, projectsare counted onlyonceforeach typelfimctionofNGOs. Forthesereasons,
numbeas under "By type of NGO" and -By fibction" exceed the total number of projects involving NGOs.
held with NGOs in Paris and Washington on    year on issues such as the disclosure of infor-
the draft of World Development Report 1994:    mation, creation of an inspection panel, and
Infrastructure for Development.                   foilow-up to the report of the Bank's Task
In addition to formal consultations, an in-    Force on Portfolio Management. Another se-
creasing number of meetings between senior    ries of meetings focused on environmental sus-
Bank officials and NGO  representatives    tainability, resettlement issues. specific project
around the world have been held. A series of    concerns, and the environmental effects of
meetings took place with NGOs during the past    macroeconomic policies.



42   MaJor World Bank Programs: Fscal Year 1994
The changing nature of the Bank-NGO reia-  In canrying out its mandate, ESD engages in
tionship was clearly exhibited at the Confer-   six types of activities:
ence on Actions to Reduce Hunger Worldwide   * improving the Bank's understanding of the
that was convened by the Bank in November   meaning of, and requirements for, achieving
1993. In addition to participating in presenta-   environmentally sustainable and equitable de-
tions and discussions, NGO representatives as-   velopment;
sisted in the conference's preparatory and   * formulating sound environmental, agricul-
follow-up work. Discussions at the country   tural, and infrastructural policies, projects, and
level on hunger issues are currently being   programs-through its own studies and by
planned by the Bank and NGOs in various   drawing on the best work wherever it is being
countries.                                 done-that promote sustainability;
NGOs are also playing a role in the Global  * providing guidance and technical support
Environrment Facility (GEF), especially in the   to the Bank's six regional offices in devising
areas of project design, implementation, and   operationc consistent with the object of sus-
monitoring. The twice-yearly meetings of GEF   tainability;'2
"participants" (members) are routinely pre-  * helping to address global issues related to
ceded by GEF-NGO consultations.            the environment, agriculture, and infrastruc-
The instrument for the Establishment of the   ture and urban development-in oartnership
Restructured Global Environment Facility,   with bilateral agencies, other multilateral insti-
adopted in March 1994 at the GEF Participants  tutions, and NGOs;
Meeting in Geneva, included several provi-   * exchanging and disseminating the findings
sions that relate to NGOs' concerns: In the re-   of policy and "best practices" work with its
structured facility, NGOs will have important   external partners and within the Bank; and
roles to play in proposing, preparing, and im-  * developing the Bank's technical capabili-
plementing projects, and local communities   ties through selective recruitment and training
will be consulted throughout the project cycle.   of staff to become more alert to environmnental
The facility's three implementing agencies   issues and more proficient in elaborating and
are moving to modify their procedures as   managing environmentally sound programs.
needed to assure consultation with affected  Polcy and Best-practice Work. The ESD
communities, increased participation by NGOs   vice presidency is responsible for advancing
in GEF projects, public access to GEF project   appropriate sustainable development policies
information, and regular monitoring and eval-  in the Bank and monitoring progress in the field
uation of project implementation and results.    of environment, agriculture, and infrastruc-
ture. Recent policy papers have addressed ur-
Environmentally Sustainable Development   ban development (fiscal 1991), forestry (fiscal
Achieving environmentally sustainable de-   1992), housing (fiscal 1993), and water-
velopment is a major challenge of the 1990s.  resource management (fiscal 1993) issues.
The June 1992 UNCED succeeded in raising     During the past fiscal year, the vice presi-
the consciousness of the world to the urgency   dency promoted the acceptance of the Bank's
of this task. The World Bank, as the largest   water-resource management policies, which
multilateral source of development finance for   call for treating water as an economic good,
developing countries, has a special responsibil-  involving stakeholders in its management, and
ity to ensure that the programs and projects it  fostering institutional environments that en-
supports are consistent with the objective of   courage efficient, effective, and equitable wa-
sustainable devetopmenL The mandate of the   ter use. The importance of a comprehensive
Environmentally Sustainable Development   framework that takes into account cross-
(ESD) vice presidency is to develop an effec-   sectoral considerations was also stressed.
tive Bank response to this challenge.        These concerns were pursued in countries
At all times, people and the capacities of eco-   worldwide. In the Africa region, for example,
systems to support life are the center of ESD's   staff have been assisting the government of
focus. The existence of acute poverty in the   Malawi to develop a water-resources manage-
world and the degradation and contamination   ment policy to guide the sustainable use of wa-
of ecosystems are related critical issues and es-  ter resources and the planning and provision of
sential concerns in environmentally sustain-   services, accompanied by substantial sector re-
able development. The Bank must provide
leadership in accelerating the improvement of
living standards while incorporating the objec-  ': The 1987 report of the World Commission on Environ-
tives of environmentally appropriate manage-  ment and Development (the Bmndtand Commission) de-
rfned sustainable development as development that meets
ment and sustainability into the design of   the needs of die present genraion without compwmis-
development policies and projects.          ing the needs or futture generations:'



Environmentally Sustainable Development   43
form. In China. work has focused on water is-   ment" were also completed during the past
sues and policy reforms as they relate to urban    year.
environmental management; and in the Brazil-    Four major parallel reviews-the second re-
ian states of Parana. Minas Gerais. and Sio    view of environmental assessments. the imple-
Paulo. the principles of water-resources man-   mentation review of the Bank's active portfolio
agement at the basin level. including consider-   of environmental projects, a review of national
ation of the use of economic instruments for   environmental action plans (NEAPs). and a re-
water allocations and poilution control. are be-   view of projects involving involuntary re-
ing implemented.                              settlement-were the focus of environmental
In the second half of thc r,cal year. ESD    activities during fiscal 1994. The resettlement
undertook a review of the degree of acceptance   review, rather than being carried out as a desk-
and implementation of the findings of the 1991    bound and static stock-taking exercise. was de-
paper on forest policy.)3 The ongoing    liberately designed as a broad process of
review-it had not been completed by the end    resettlement analysis in the field. carried out by
of the fiscal year-is concentrating on the de-   the Bank's relevant regional and central units
gree to which changes are being made at the   jointly with borrowers (see Box 3-2).
country level to sector work and project de-    Central to integrating environmental con-
sign. Consultations on an early draft of the re-   cerns into the Bank's activities is the "Opera-
view were held in Libreville (capital of timber-   tional Directive on Environmental
rich Gabon), London, and Washington, D.C.   Assessment." which was issued in October
Participants included NGOs from both devel-   1989. The directive mandates an environmental
aped and developing countries, members of the    assessment (EAM for all projects that may have
Forestry Advisers Group (which includes the    a significant negative effect on the environ-
forestry advisers of the principal donor agen-   ment. Those expected to have significant. sen-
cies), representatives of the timber industry,   sitive, irreversible, or diverse effects are
and academicians.                             classified as "Category A" and require a flail
Fiscal 1994 saw the publication of World De-   EA. Less sensitive "Category B" projects un-
velopment Report 1994: Infrastructure for De-   dergo a more limited environmental analysis.
velopment," which examines the links            A first review of EA procedures, conducted
between infiastructure and development and   in fiscal 1992, found that although they were
explores ways in which developing countries   realistic, workable. and instrumental in im-
can improve both the provision and the quality    proving development planning and environ-
of infrastructure services (transportation. tele-   mental management, problems remained.
communications, water and sanitation, power   More effort was needed, the review concluded.
and gas, and major water works).              to strengthen borrowers' capacity to conduct
World Development Report 1994 presents   effective EAS. The review recommended.
new strategies for developing infrastructure in   therefore. that LA training in borrowing coun-
more effective, less wasteful ways. The report   tries be made a priority. The review also rec-
shows that the quantity of investment cannot   ommended that the Bank seek to move the EA
be the exclusive focus of policy. It is also vital   process to earlier stages in borrower project
that the quality of infrastructure service be im-   planning before major decisions-for example.
proved. To promote more efficient and respon-   siting and technology-are made.
sive delivery of infrastructure service, the
report points to the need to change incentives
through the application of three instruments
-commercial management, competition (di-   'tapcr5 siforh alfho fold g csratgnotc dcc elopment is
rectly if feasible, indirectly if not), and stake-  nccessary fora longer-term solution to the problem of de-
holder involvement.                            forestation. priority should be given in the intcrim to in-
The report also identifies trends that will fa-  creasing agricultural productivity in poor. densely
cilitate improvements in the performance of in-  populated areas-epecially thosc adjaent to forested ar-
eas or those from where most forest encroachers
frastructure. These include innovation in       originate-andio expanding nonfarm employmcnt oppor-
technology and regulatory management. the       tunities in these targeted areas. Second. forest protection
new willingness of govemments to involve the    will need to be ensured through specific legislation and
private sector, and increased concern about so-  regulatory measures especially in tropical moist forests.
Third. prvate incentives need to bc changed. for cnforce-
cial and environmental sustainability.          ment of zoning and other egulations is likely to be inef-
World Development Report 1994 benefited      fective unless they are. Fourth. public investments need
from analysis initiated in ESD and published in  to be preceded by much more careful environmental as
the Bank's Discussion Papers series. Papers on    *4sWord ent1R
the   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~II                 World Bank. 1994. World Development Report 1994: in-
"Railways, Energy, and the Environment"        frastructureforDerdhpment. New Yorkt Obrd Univer-
and "Rural Road Maintenance and Improve-        sity Press-



44   Major World Bank Progroam  Fbical Year 1994
Box 3-2. Review or Projects Involving Involuntary Reseldement
In the wake of the Bank's experience with its in-   increases political tensions, entails extensive
volvement in the Sardar Sarovar projects in In-   project delays, and postpones project benefits
dia, a task force was formed in 1993 to carry out   for all concemed; the benefits lost because of
an analysis of 146 projects approved between   such unavoidable project delays sometimes far
1986 and 1993 with resettlement components to   exceed the marginal cost of a good resettlement
ensure that project implementation was being car-   package. Ensuring that involuntary resettlement
ned out consistent with loan and credit agree-   is minimized-and when unavoidable, is carried
ments and with Bank guidelines and policy.'   out without impoverishing the people
Nearly 2 million people were in various stages of   displaced-is fully justified, therefore, on both
resettlement in the 146 projects, which repre-   economic and ethical grounds.
sented 8 percent of the Bank's active portfolio of  The review showed, once again, that resettle-
projects (and 15 percent by worth).         ment is nearly always more difficult, more expen-
The main product of the review was not simply   sive, and more time consuming than generally
its final report,' but the process that the review    realized. The largest resettlement operations
triggered throughout 1993 across the Bank and on    move tens of thousands of people-often very
the ground. The review process consisted of in-   poor people-ong distances in a very short time,
tensified field supervision: analysis of project   and reestablishing their standard of living is a
preparation, appraisal, supervision, and implem-  hard task. The inherent difficulty in reestablishing
mentation: on-site consultations with nongover-   standards of living and community services is
mental organizations; sectoral resettlement   compounded by the limited technical and institu-
studies: development of new technical tools for   tional resettlement capacity of most borrowers,
resettlementplanning-,and a considerable number   as well as by weak commitment from some exe-
of remedial actions initiated by the Bank and bor-   cuiing agencies.
rowers for those projects that were failing to meet  During the review period, the Bank tripled its
set objectives.                             resources for resettlemcnt supervision, and more
Although task force members found that the   supervision missions of projects with resettle-
Bank had made significant pmgress between 986    ment components were launched than in the
and 1993 in some areas, they also discovered that   previous three years put together. Remedial
when projects were not consistent with policy   actions-they included increasing participation of
and processing guidelines. resettlers ended up    affected people, finding ways to reduce displace-
worse off in some cases.                    ment, provision of additional financial resources,
The single most important message of their re-   and adjusting resetrtnent imetables-had the
view was that good resettlement can prevent im-   effect of considerably improving the Bank's over-
poverishment and even reduce poverty by    all portfolio. In-house analytical work and train-
rebuilding sustainabl livelihoods. Socially re-   iDg offered to country officials also contributed
sponsible resettlement is also economically ben-   during 1993 to improving portfolio managemnenL
efiial because the heavy costs of poorly handled   In fact, the entirp review process proved to be an
resettlement extend well beyond the immediately   exceptional opportunity for leaming how to do
affected population-to the regional economy    resettlement better, for identifying good prac-
and to the host population in relocation areas. In-   tices, adjusting general approaches to particular
adequate resettlement induces local resistance,   circumstances, building institutional capacity for
The second EA review found that Bank sup-      These efforts are beginning to bear fruit.
port to activities aimed at building and    Quality has improved considerably in impor-
strengthening EA capacity in borrowing coun-   tant areas such as impact identification and
tries did significantly expand in the two inter-   analysis; public consultation, especially in the
vening years. Support came mainly in the form    context of resettlement; and mitigation, moni-
of environmental institution-building projects   toring, and management planning for projects.
aimed specifically at this and related objec-   In addition, and even more important, the
tives; technical assistance components, aimed    Bank has witnessed a diversification of EA ap-
at developing EA capacity. in regular invest-   proaches into newer areas, both in terms of
ment projects; in-country training spearheaded    sectoral spread (tourism and solid waste man-
by the Bank's Economic Development Insti-   agement, for example) and types of lending op-
tute and the Bank's regional environmental di-   erations (privatization and onlending, for
visions: and advice on EA legislation and    example).
procedures. The Bank has also been successful    Progress has been particularly significant as
in moving EA "upstream" in borrowers' plan-   concerns the preventive dimension of EA-
ning processes, as evidenced by the growing    minimizing the negative environmental effects
number of "sectoral" EAs.                      of a given projecL But progress was also made



Ervlronrnentallv Suslahable Devebpment   45
resettlement. and refining analytical and evalua-  * Remedial and retrofitting actions will con-
tion methodologies.                           tinue forall active projects that fall short of policy
In the end, the Bank will bejudged on how well    and legal provisions.
the lessons learned from the review process will  * Fuli compliance with procedures and estab-
be integrated into its future activities. Important    lished safeguards for ensuring project quality will.
weaknesses in past Bank practice have been re-  be insisted upon. While full implementation re-
vealed, and actions to improve Bank resettlement  sponsibility rests with borrowing governments.
work are under way. Thus:                     the Bank has a responsibility to follow up care-
* The Bank will not fmance projects involving  fully on performance, impacts, and outcomes.
large-scale resettlement operations unless the  * The content and frequency of resettlement
government concerned adopts policies and legal    supervision will be further improved. and regular
frameworks that are conducive to resettlement  and adequately staffed supervision missions will
with income restoration,                      take place at least every twelve months. including
* The Bank will help borrowers build their in-  on-the-ground visits to places where displace-
stitutional capacity to implement review before  meat and relocation occur.
displacement starts with a view to protecting peo-  * To sustain progress achieved and to monitor
pie's rights.                                 continued compliance with Bank guidelines apd
* Bank-assisted projects will avoid or reduce  procedures, regional units will prepare annual re-
displacement as much as possible through tech-  ports on projects with resettlement in their port-
nical and social studies for projec design and ex-  folio as part of the annual review of portfolio
ecution.                                      performance.
* The active participation of would-be reset-  By setting such exacting nonns for the opera-
tlers in the preparation, planning, and implemen-  tions it assists and promoting resettlers' reestab-
tation of resettlement will be required      lishment at comparable or improved income
* All projects will internalize the full cost of    levels, the Bank will continue to work to narrow
resettlement and of the investments required for    the gap between resettlement goals and past en-
income restoration within total project costs so as  trenched practice in many countries.
to prevent impover-ihmetiL
to  prevent impoverishment.M                  Barks rsC ttlemcnt policy  has evolved  steadily
a Twin-project approaches for large-scale civil  s   1980  asmn  ofthatpolicyincludeavoid-
works causimg resettlement Wil be considered.  mnce or minimization or involuntary displacement
This approach was used in fiscal 1994, when a  - whenever feasib, assistance to displaed persons in
$460 -lIUon loan m support of China's Xiaolangdi  their efforts to improve, or at least restore. fonner Ev-
Multipurpose Project was coupled with a $110    ing standards and eanting capacitr, compensation to
million IDA credit to help resettle and restore and  dispaced persons for their los  at replacement Ost;
improve the livelihoods of 154,000 people (direct-  promotion of resetlers' and host' participation in
ly) and 300,000 people (indirectly) affected by the  phnning rsctlement and pmvision of adequate land.
multipurpose projcect                          infastructure, and other comnpensation for grops that
may have informal customary rights to die land or re-
* The Bank's own institutional capacity will be  sources ra-ken for the projecL
strengthened, primarily through the better use of  ' Wold Bank. 1994. Resettnement and Development:
existing staff skills and by adding staff capacity in  me Bankwide Review of Projects Involving Inwolun-
critical fields.                               rany Resettlenewn. 1986-93. Washington, D.C
on the 'proactive" front in terms of helping    slightly better than the average for the portfolio
design individual projects and larger invest-   as a whole at the end of fiscal 1993. Part of the
ment programs that actively enhance environ-   explanation of the apparent above-avenage per-
mental quality.                                 fornance is the aforementioned "youth" of the
The implementation review of environmen-    projects in relation to the portfolio as a whole.
tal projects covcred ninety-three projects-4.2    Thus, controlling for project "age." it is prob-
percent of all projects under implementation at   ably more accurate to conclude that environ-
the end of fiscal 1993 and entailing commit-    mental projects are performing about the same
ments of $6.4 billion-that had been identified    as the Bank's active portfolio as a whole.
as having primarily environmental objectives.     As in the case for the Bank's portfolio gen-
These operations were approved between fis-   emiLy, there also appears to be a clear positive
cal 1986 and fiscal 1993, with the majority com-    correlation between country income level and
ing after fiscal 1990. The operations, therefore,   environmental project performance. Only one
comprised a rather 'young' segment of the to-    ".problem  project" was found in an upper-
tal active portfolio,                           middle-income country, compared with the
On the basis of supervision ratings, environ-    much larger number found in lower-middle and
mental projects were found to be performing    low-income countries.



46   Major World Bank Progroms Fiscol Year 1994
It does appear, however, that certain types   Bank's borrowers is the promotion of "best
of environmental projects are performing bet-   practices." Best-practices papers, which build
ter than others ("brown" projects are doing   on completed policy papers, are drawn from
better than "green" and "institutional" ones).   ESD's operational support work and from rap-
Furthermore, as a comparatively recent area of  idly accumulating experience as developing
Bank lending, there are the inevitable number   countries endeavor to put policies into prac-
of start-up costs associated with new and often   tice. They are brief, practical, and driven by
weak national and sectoral institutions. Other  real-world successes and failures. During fiscal
problems include the relative unfamiliarity of   1994, examples include the initiation of the Ag-
executing agencies with Bank requirements; a   ricultural Technology News series-consisting
tendency in some cases to try to "pack too   of four-page notes written specifically for op-
much" into single operations; and, in some   erational task managers on recent technologi-
cases, less thctn full borrower commitment to   cal developments in specific branches of
project objectives and components, especially   agriculture-and the continuation and expan-
those not involving physical investment.  sion of the Infrastructure Notes series. Tech-
Bank assistance in elaborating and imple-   nical papers on topics as diverse as air
menting national environmental action plans   pollution from motor vehicles, experience with
(NEAPs) plays a critical role in helping mem-   lending for railways, urban infrastructure and
ber countries improve their environmental   productivity, and sectoral indicators for hous-
management NEAPs provide a basis for the   ing were also completed.
Bank's dialogue with borrowers on environ-  The sectoral indicators for housing have
mental issues, describe a country's major en-   been developed collaboratively with the
vironmental concerns and problems, and   United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
formulate policies and actions to address what-   under the Housing Indicators Programs (HIP).
ever problems are identified. The responsibil-   The indicators reflect the interests of all key
ity for NEAP preparation and implementation   stakeholders in the sector (end users, suppli-
rests with the borrower. By the end of fiscal   ers, financiers, and governments) and cover
1994, most active IDA borrowers had com-   factors as diverse as the price of housing,
pleted NEAPs or equivalent documents, and   homelessness, quality, production, invest-
several non-IDA countries had completed them    ment, interest rates for mortgages, the impor-
or were in advanced stages of preparation.  tance of housing finance within the overall
A srudy of country environmental strategies   financial system, subsidies, and taxes. They
is currently under way in the Bank: it has been   have been collected in fifty-three countries at
designed to provide guidance to governments   every level of economic development and have
in preparing such strategies. The study-   been used within the Bank to evaluate priori-
"National Environmental Strategies and Ac-  iies for policy reform and lending in a number
tion Plans-Key Elements and Best   of countries. Severalborrowerceuntries(Hun-
Practice--is expected to be completed by the   gary and the Philippines, for example), with as-
middle of fiscal 1995. Its findings wilH be di-  sistance from the HIP, have developed housing
rected to governments of developing counitries,  indicators as a tool for evaluating housing pol-
particularly ministries that are primarily re-  icies and programs at both the local and na-
sponsible for environmental planning and im-   tional level and for monitoring the performance
plementation.                             of the sector on a continuing basis. Drawing on
The study is finding that the experience with  the successful experience of the HIP. sectoral
preparingNEAPs has varied considerable from    performance indicators are now being ex-
country to country. NEAPs need to be country  tended to other urban subsectors, including lo-
driven and participatory, involving all seg-   cal government finance and services, water
ments of society and the government. At the   supply and sanitation. urban environment and
same time, as strategies. national plans become   urban transport.
more feasible to implement when there are   Evidence exists that the failure to pay suffi-
clear priorities. Achieving both objectives has   cient attention to social factors in development
sometimes proved difficult, the study shows.   can jeopardize the effectiveness of Bank-
Making Development Sustainable: The   supported programs and projects. The social
World Bank Group and thze Environment, a de-   dimensions of development are especially im-
tailed review of World Bank environmental ac-   portant in dealing with environmental and so-
tivities in fiscal 1994, was published in early   cial issues. It is increasingly recognized that
fiscal 1995.                              problems can be diagnosed and solutions im-
An important element of the support ESD    plemented only through the development and
provides the Bank's operational departments   application of the tools of social analysis. To
in delivering assistance of good quality to the   bridge the social-dimension gap. preparation of



Envronmentaly Susltinable Developrnent  47
a Participation Sourcebook was begun during   approaches and build up knowledge step-by-
the past year.                            step in a process of structured learning.
The sourcebook. which builds on the find-  For example, the Russia Farm Transforma-
ings of a three-year learning program funded by   tion Study involved setting up an apparatus for
the Swedish International Development Au-   farm surveys to monitor changes in farm orga-
thority, is being prepared in a participatory   nization; truaining of staff of the collaborating
manner, drawing upon contnbutions of more  local institution in farm-survey techniques.
than 200 Bank staff and external advisers. The   data processing, and analytical methods; and
sourcebook will be a loose-leaf action guide,   producing an up-to-date picture of the situation
providing Bank operational staff with key ques-  in the farm sector- The capacity-building as-
tions they should ask; best-practice answers to   pects of this task are already bearing fruit, as the
tackle these questions; brief case studies; and   collaborating institution is now conducting a
available resources. In addition to the source-  foilow-up survey with very litle supervision.
book, ESD has also prepared a document pro-   Furthermore, the work served as a model for a
viding guidance on social assessment (SA)_ The   similar study under way that deals with
SA draws on best practice from a number of   Ukraine.
areas. Its objectives are to (a) identify key  Protecting the Global Environment. The
stakeholders and provide an appropriate   ESD vice presidency leads the Bank's efforts
framework for their participation in Bank-   to address critical global issues affecting the
assisted operations; (b) ensure that project ob-   environment, agriculture, and infrastructure
jectives and incentives for change are   and to follow up on the strategic agenda that
acceptable to those the project is intended to   emerged from UNCED- A part of this work
benefit; (c) assess the sncial impact of projects   emerges from the Global Environment Facility
and minimize adverse .i,pacts, if any; and (d)   (GEE).
develop capacity at the appropriate level to en-  The GEF was established as a pilot program
able participation and to carry out proposed ac-  in 1991 to act as a mechanism for international
tivities. Both the guidelines and sourcebook   cooperation for the purpose of providing new
will be elaborated upon and improved as prac-   and additional grant and concessional funding
tical experience is gained,              to meet the incremental costs of measures to
Training and Seminars A key element of the   achieve agreed global environmental benefits
work program of the ESD vice presidency is  in four focal areas: climate change, biological
the training that it provides Bank staff on a   diversity, international waters, and ozone-
range of topics to support operational work and   layer depletion- The agreed incremental costs
help improve project implementation. During   of activities concerning land degradation. pri-
the past year forty-eight training courses were   manly desertification and deforestation, as
given. Ir addition, seminars, workshops, and   they relate to the four focal areas, are also el-
study tours were organized, with participation   igible for funding. Day-to-day operation of the
by experts in their fields from outside the   facility is shared among the UNDP, UNEP.
Bank. Thus, the Bank cosponsored-with the   and the Bank. In addition to providing admin-
United Nations Development Programme   istrative support to the GEF secretariat, the
(UNDP) and the Rockefeller Foundation-a   Bank performs two principal functions: as
workshop (held in Bangkok) on integrated pest  trustee of a new trust fund and as one of the
management and biotechnology. Similarly, an   implementing agencies.
irrigation seminar/study tour in Mexico, con-  During its pilot phase. 115 projects, valued at
centrating on the successful experience there   more than $733 million, had been endorsed by
with promotion of water-users' associations,   GEF participants, of which sixty-eight (worth
brought together Bank staff with irrigation spe-   $471 million) had received final clearance.
cialists from both developed and developing   Forty-two percent of the facility's resources
countries.                                had been allocated to biodiversity projects, 40
Direct Operational Support. A central objec-   percent to climate-change projects, 17 percent
tive of the Environmentally Sustainable Devel-  to international waters projects, and I percent
opment vice presidency is to help the Bank's  to ozone projects.
operational departments achieve the full inte-    In March 1994, more than eighty industrial-
gration of environmental considerations-with   ized and developing countries agreed to re-
state-of-the-art technical, social, and economic   structure and replenish the GEF Twenty-six
approaches-in their project designs (appropri-  countries, including several developing coun-
ate to local ecosystems and country conditions)  tries, pledged more than $2 billion to the GEFs
with the objective of long-term sustainability.   core fund (the GEF Trust Fund) over the next
Operational support activities are viewed as   three years. The eight principles that serve as
opportunities to explore systematically new   the basis for the restructured facility may be



48   Major World Bank Progroms: Fiscal Year 1994
found on page 51 of the World Bank's Annuat   an independent Technical Advisory Commit-
Report for fiscal year 1993.               tee. after a careful review of the global chal-
After fifteen months of negotiations. the par-  lenges, the work of other institutions, and the
ticipants settled on a "double majority" voting   centers' proposed programs. The CGIAR is
system in a thirty-two-member council to pro-   widely considered as an outstanding success.
tect the interests of both donor and recipient   The past contribution of its research centers to
countries. This requires approval by a 60 per-  reducing hunger and poverty is demonstrable.
cent majority of all member countries, as well   Following a recent realignment of research pro-
as approval by donors representing at least 60   grams, the centers are committed to grappling
percent of contnrbutions. The council will ap-   with today's challenges to sustainable agricul-
erate by consensus. using votes only in excep-  ture, food security. and poverty reduction.
tional circumstances. The restructured and   At the mid term meeting that took place in
replenished GEF represents an innovative   New Delhi in late May 1994. proposals for re-
mechanism for international cooperation. As   vitalizing the CGIAR system were endorsed.
one of the GEF implementing agencies. the   The proposals aim at stabilizing the system's
Bankhas a special responsibilityto assistcoun-   financial system and halting the erosion of its
tries in integrating their actions to protect the   scientific capacity; refocusing the research
global environment with their national devel-  agenda on approved programs; improving gov-
opment strategies. One aspect of this is for the   ernance and reforming management with a
Bank to ensure that where it is responsible for   view to ensuring predictability, transparency.
GEF-financed activities linked to Bank-   and accountability; linking the CGIR's pro-
assisted projects, the GEF component is fully   grams with participatory programs at the farm
integrated with the project and is not seen sim-   level; and developing an action plan and an
ply as an add-on.                          eighteen-month timetatle designed to secure
In December 1992, GEF participants re-   govemment endorsement of the new strategy.
quested an independent evaluation of the pilot  In the area offinances, members of the group
phase of the facility to guide future planning.   stressed their commitment in support of the
Reflecting the organizational structure of the   $270 million core research agenda. To this end,
GEE, the evaluation was conducted under the   it was decided to redirect funding of activities
oversight of senior evaluation managers from    in the complementary program to the core pro-
each of the implementing agencies, with the   grain, and a proposal by the three cosponsors
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department   to launch a one-time financial supplement
providing the secretariat. An independent   brought indications of support of at least $10
panel of experts provided strategic guidance   milion in additional pledges for 1994. The
and validated the methodology and approach   World Bank is considering matching additional
used for the evaluation.                   donor core funding with an extra contrbution
The resulting evaluation study, The Global   on a 1:2 basis, up to a maximum of $10 million
Environment Facility: Independent Evaluation   annually, for both 1994 and 1995.
of the Pilot Phase. published jointly by the  To ensure transparency. accountability, and
UNDP. UNEP. and the Bank in May t994, ad-   predictability of finances, the CGIAR will
vocated some fundamental changes. These in-   move toward a new program-budgeting sys-
clude articulating more clearly the GEF's  tem. The system will clearly identifyr the rela-
mandate, goals. and strategies: addressing de-  tive role of CGIAR centers in undertaking
ficiencies in meeting the GEFs global focus;  research programs within the context of a
improving the capacities and procedures of im-   global research agenda implemented by indus-
plementing agencies for managing the portfo-   trialized countries, international agricultural
lio; and increasing NGO. country, and   research centers, the national agricultural re-
community-Ievel participation.             search systems of developing countries, and
The vice president for ESD also serves as   nongovernmental organizations. The 1995 pro-
chairman of the Consultative Group on Inter-   gram and budgets will be presented in a form
national Agricultural Research (CGLAR). an in-   that facilitates the move towards the new ap-
formal association of forty-two public and   proach.
private sector donors that supports a networkl
of eighteen international agricultural research    "Thmwiesteencetesin 1995followingthecreation
centers." The Bank is a cosponsor of the     of a new singte institutional entity for livestock esearch.
CGIAR, together with the Food and Agricul-    which would comprise the cxisting Intcrnational Live-
ture Organization of the UN (FAO) and the    stock Centre for Africa and the lntemationalLaboratory
UNDP.                                       for Rcsearch on Animal Discases. and the merger of the
Intcrnational Network for the Improvement of Banana
The centers pursue a research agenda agreed  and Plantain with the Intemational Board on Plant GC-
upon by the donors on the recommendations of  netic Resources.



Environmentaly Sustainable Development  49
The Russian Federation became the forty-   enterprise crndit programs sponsored by the
second member of the group at the New Delhi   Internationai Fund for Agricultural Develop-
meeting, and South Africa attended for the first   ment (IFAD), and the Freedom from Hunger
time as an observer.                      Campaign. An immediate grant of $2 million
Outreach. Reliance on policy studies, best-   was extended by the Bank to the Grameen
practices papers, and other reports and studies   Bank to help cover the start-up costs of the
for the dissemination of ESD's intellectual out-   Grameen Trust for the first year of its opera-
put is increasingly being supplemented by   tions. The grant is separate from the World
briefer specialized ntwsletters that are circu-   Bank's normal loans and credits, which are
lated widely ("Urban Age," 'ENV Dissemi-   made only to governments or involve a gov-
nation Notes," and "Forestry Newsletter,"   ernment guarantee.
for example), as well as by informal work-  The $2 million allocation to the Grameen
shops, seminars, and symposia aimed at en-   Trust is indicative of the Bank's commitment
hancing collaboration with other agencies.  to directly support action-oriented programs
Examples of the latter included involvement in  that target the reduction of poverty and the al-
the Dutch Ministerial Conference on "Drink-   leviation of hunger. Other agencies have al-
ing Water and Environmental Sanitation: Im-   ready contributed to the trust, and the Bank's
plementing Agenda 21" and continuing   modest contribution reinforces the institution's
collaboration with the bilateral aid agencies of   intent to join donors and other partners to ex-
Denmark and Sweden on water resources-   plore programs that address the credit and sav-
management issues.                        ings needs of the self-employed poor and to
The First Annual ESD Conference (Septem-   support institutions whGse aim is to help those
ber 30-October 1, 1993), convened at the   who are in the greatest need. The Grameen
Bank's headquarters, focused mainly on the   Trust was founded by the president of the
question of properly identifying the costs and   Grameen Bank, Mohammed Yunus, one of the
benefits of alternative uses of natural re-   speakers at the conference.
sources. The hundreds of experts attending the  Other speakers included Boutros Boutros-
talks also looked at the growing need for better   Ghali, secretary general of the United Na-
managementinthefaceofworseningshortages   tions; Ketumile Masire, president of
and increasing pollution.                 Botswana; former United States president
T.e conference yielded a rich discussion of   Jimmy Carter (in his capacity as a leader of the
some of today's cutting-edge environmental   Carter Center, a nongovernmental organiza-
challenges. Its purpose was not, however, to   tion); World Bank president Lewis Preston;
look for a perfect solution to the world's envi-  and Congressman Hall.
ronmental problems; instead, it set out to  Lending operations. Li fiscal 1994, lending
change the processes by which solutions are   in support of environmentally sustainable de-
identified by involving people and focusing on   velopment totaled $10,203 million, or 49 per-
the environment while promoting economic de-   cent of total Bank lending. Some $6,835 million
velopment                                 of the investments were supported by IBRD
ESD also organized a Conference on Actions   loans, while $3,368 million were supported by
to Reduce Hunger Worldwide (November 30-   IDA credits.
December 1, 1993). The inspiration for the con-  Eight projects with primarily environmental
ference came from a twenty-three-day fast   objectives, invoi;ring commitments of $748
earlier in the year by United States Congrss-   million, were approved. Seventeen projects
man Tony Hall to raise public awareness about   contained significant environmental compo-
the growing scourge of hunger. The confer-   nents that advanced the green agenda (ten
ence, which was planned in collaboration with   projects, $742 mnillion) and the brown agenda
other multilateral development agencies and   (seven projects, $913.6 Million)."6
NGOs from both the developing and industri-  Lending in support of agriculture and
alized world, aimed at strengthening global ef-   natural-resource development totaled $3,907
forts to reduce hunger.                   million for forty-six projects; transportation
The Bank announced at the conference its  lending amounted to $3,293 million (twenty-
willingness to work with other donors to fund   five projects); fifteen investments in the urban
credit organizations that offer very small loans
to the very poor as part of an overall program
to empower them to take control of their lives.
The program is similar to several successful   "In fiscar 1994. '-environmenc was formally included as a
programs in the developing world such as the  sector.'jo be so classifred. a project must primarily ad-
dress one of four conccrns: environmental institutional
Grameen Bank of Bangladesh, the Badan       development. natund resources managemcnt. pollution
Kredii Kecamatan of Indonesia, the micro-    controllwUate management. sad resetlement.



50   Major World Bank Programs: Fscal Yeor 1994
development sector amounted to $1,279 million;   vate investment by enterprises in developing
and commitments totaling $975 million (ten   countries.
projects) were made in the water supply and  Suipportfor operations- In its efforts to help
sewerage sector-                          develop more vibrant and competitive private
sectors, a central concern of FPD has been to
Financial and Private Sector Development   improve the quality and effectiveness of Bank
During fiscal 1994. the World Bank Group-    operations-the focus of more than two thirds
the World Bank, the International Finance   of FPD's resources. Activities during the past
Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Inver    year have included support to country teams
ment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)-stepped ap   for better design and execution of projects,
its support to developing countries to expand   more and better staff training, better programs
their private sectors and build up theirfinancial   of technical assistance, increased networking
sectors. The objective is to enhance their pros-   with 'best-practice" innovators throughout
pects for growth and to make their economies   the world, and enhanced dissemination of
responsive enough to compete in today's fast-  knowledge and best practices to Bank staff and
moving global economy- The Bank Group's  borrowers.
support for private sector development and  As was highlighted at a seminar on finance
privatization also helped governments reduce   and private sector development for the Bank's
their responsibilities and fiscal burdens-   executive board in March 1994, with govern-
freeing them to focus on poverty and the envi-   ments everywhere reexamining their role in de-
ronmenL                                   velopment and reorienting public sector
As last year's Annual Report noted. the   activities to maximize efficiency, the private
Bank Group is looking for ways to understand   sector is increasingly being asked to help meet
the dynamics of the environment affecting pri-  their development priorities. At the same time.
vate secaordevelopment. It is also forging links   today's worldwide trade and lmsiness pattems
among local institutions critical to creating a   imply a higher competitiveness threshold and
vibrant environment for business. And it is   much higher standards of responsiveness for
learning from-and disseminating-successful   government institutions and firms alike.
country experiences in implementing reforms.  Accepting this reality requires a fundamental
Contributing to much of this work is the   change in what governments do and in the way
Bank's new central vice presidency forfinance   they relate to the private sector. It means that
and private sector development (FPD), which,   governments have to move away from con-
during fiscal 1994, completed its staffing and   troaled, inward-looking economies to competi-
organizational set-up. Bank Group operations   tive, outward-looking ones And it means that
and activities in support of private sector de-  firms have to move from courting the state for
velopment focused on three main areas:   special privileges to courting the markets for
D effectively supporting private sector devel-  profits.
opment through an increasing range of actions:  Governments thus have to establish a com-
* better dissemination of knowledge; and  petitive environment, a legal and regulatory
* expenmenting with innovative ideas.   system that can support the market. and insti-
Supporfing Private Sector DevelopmenL The   tutions that can help firms upgrade their capa-
Bank is fostering the private sector throughout   bilities. They have to move from being owners
the developing world in a variety of ways.   and operators to being competent regulators
World Bank adjustment loans and credits, for   and partners.
example. help produce a competitive and at-  During fiscal 1994 the Bank Group continued
tractive business environment. as well as help  to help its borrowing countries intensify their
reform in the financial sector. In addition, the   efforts in privatizing publicly owned enter-
Bank Group is supporting about $25 billion   prises, redesigning regulatory frameworks.
worth of private investment annually. The   and, more generally. developing an attractive
Bank's financial intermediation loans of about   business environment- By the end of the fiscal
$1.5 billion a year support $4 billion in private   year the Bank and the IFC jointly had virtually
sector investment: the IFC-through its loans.  completed seventeen private sector assess-
equity. and credit lines-provides about $2.5   ments- Their findings have been disseminated
billion a year. and with a much bigger multi-  through seminars and workshops with a view
plier of about 7 to 1, supports approximnately  to assisting governments develop solutions in
$18 billion worth of investment; and MIGA's  consultation with the private sector. The re-
guarantee operations are currently running at   ports themselves, however. have typically pre-
about $400 million a year. supporting about   sented the Bank Group's own diagnosis and
$3 billion in private sector investments. That  recommendations to the governments con-
$25 billion represents about 10 percent of pri-  cerned as a means of assisting them in their



Fnancial and Private Sector Development   51
policy formulation on private sector             Privatizationremainedacentralfocusofthe
development-related issues. The recommenda-   Bank Group's and FPD's assistance to a geo-
tions of these assessments have helped the    graphical cross-section of member countries
BanICs country-assistance strategy and lending    during fiscal year 1994. Many initiatives were
program (see Box 3-3). Over the past few    aimed at establishing the institutional frame-
years, almost three of every four Bank-   work for privatization in such a way as to fa-
supported adjustment operations have in-   cilitate efficient, timely, and transparent
cluded components that helped establish    divestitures. Major programs were undertaken
competitive markets and an environment to   in a range of economies, from larger (Turkey)
support the development of a successful pri-   to smaller (Bolivia and Fiji). The targets for di-
vate sector. There has also been an increasing    vestiture included the sale of small businesses
effort to generate the institutions fundamental   and shops. medium-sized and large enterprises
to the development of competitive and respon-   in the tradable sector, and public utilities. The
sive markets-customs and tax. technology.   IFC has taken an active role in technical assis-
technical education. and standards and patents   tance for privatization in Russia, helping to de-
institutions, for example.                     velop suitable methods built around an easily
Box 3-3. Private S&eor Asse_unts
To sharpen the focus of its work on private sector   ities for the private provision of infrastructure and
development, the Bank introduced in fiscal 1997 a    services that are currently being provided by the
new element in its program of economic and sec-   govemnment; and
tor work-the private sector assessmenL As of  * report on the entities in the financial sector
June 30, 1994, seventeen assessments had been   and explore how well the sector offers access to
completed (of which ten were completed during   credit to the business community.
the past year). Six additional assessments are cur-  When these areas are not covered in economic
rently under preparation, and fourteen more are   and sector work, they are covered by a private
expected to be started and completed during the   sector assessmenL Typically, however, a private
next two years.                             sector assessment focuses more on the business
These assessments differ from other Bank eco-   environmenL How is business regulated? What
nomic and sector work in that thcy involve the   are the costs ofexcessive regulation? Are monop-
formal cooperation of the llFC. This cooperation    olies and anti-competitive practices properly
has had several beneficial effects It helps focus   regulated? Does the state supply its public ser-
assessmentstightlyonthoseelementsoftherasi-   vices efficiently? Does the legal system permit
ness environment that directly affect private busi-  the writing of loan contracts that cover importar
ness activity, and it permits the Bank to take    economic transactions? Does it permit these con-
advantage of the IFC's considerable transactions   tracts to be enforced?
experience in the private sector. Cooperation also  Private sector assessmcnts have turned up sev-
helps ensure that the Bank and the IFC pursue    eral broad areas of intercst.
consistent private sector development strategies  * Many high-payoff returns have oome from
and that the country dialogue, economic and sec-   small and uncontroversial changes in practice
tor work, and lending operations reflect joint   that, nonetheless. have caused private sector ac-
BankIFC concems.                           tivity to take off.
In general, a well-formulated private sector as-  * Private sector assessments have helped fo-
sessment descnrbes the structure of the private   cus the Bank's other economic and sector work
sector in a given country, identifies the key con-   more sharply on private sector developmrrent con-
straints to its development, and lays out econom-   cerns.
ically efficient ways for the country to remove  * Recently completed surveys of private enter-
those constraints.                          prises that assess the institutional and policy
The exact content of a private sector assess-   framework that governs private sector activity in-
ment depends largely on other economic and sec-   dicate that among the regulatory constraints that
tor work that has been prepared for a country.   businesses face, tax and labor regulations are the
Typically. this work would:                 most burdensome. Surveys have found regula-
* set out the major macroeconomic issues fac-   tory compliance costs to be high-in one in-
ing the private sector and discuss how trade bar-   stance, taking up as much as 26 percent of senior
riers and price distortions might lead the private    management time.
sector to make investments that are not condu-  * Failure of public infrastructure is a large
cive to growth;                             problem. Infrastructure problems tend to be sec-
* discuss the merits of different public invest-  tor specific. although larger firns in any sector
ments and expenditures, suggesting economically   are better able to bear the costs of infrastructure
efficient changes in spending and raising possibii-  failure than smaller firms.



52   Major World Bank Programs Fscal Year 1994
replicated open voucherprocess. The IFC'sas-   and water supply and treatment. The IFC's in-
sistance began with model approaches for   vestments in this sector have risen sharply in
privatizing small-scale enterprises and then   recent years. The corporation's infrastructure
truck transport, followed by voucher privati-   operations for fiscal 1994 were in excess of
zation of medium and large-scale enterprises.   $550 million in terms of net financing ($1.29 bil-
The Bank Group has also continued to play a   lion gross), for about $5 billion worth of
central role in the design and implementation of   projects. These figures represent an increase of
mass privatization schemes aimed at introduc-   80 percent to 90 percent over fiscal 1993 fig-
ing sweeping ownership changes in such tran-   ures.
sition economies as Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz   Telecommunications is a good example. As
Republic, Moldova, Russia, and Ukraine.   was highlighted at ajoint Bank-IFC seminar on
Work is also underway-in many of these tran-   telecommunications for the executive board in
sition economies and in Latin America-to de-   February 1994, developing countries must in-
vise and implement programs to support the   vest about $30 billion a year just to provide the
growth and sustainahility of recently privatized    basic infrastructure to sustain economic
enterprises.                               growth and meet current demand. Even with
The Bank's traditional agenda in dealing with   the support of the Bank Group and other ofli-
state infrastructure monopolies was to expand   cial lenders, there is at least a $20 billion gap in
the network, introduce new technology, and   financing-a gap that only the private sector
strengthben operating entities. The emphasis   can fill.
was on least-cost design, efficient procure-  To mobilize such amounts of private capital,
ment. and the financial and managerial auton-   more and more developing countries are un-
omy of operating entities. For this, the main   dertaking broad reforms in telecommunica-
instruments were Bank investment loans and   tions. The time for this is propitious. Rapid
the use of the ECO-expanded cofinancing   technological change, declining costs. and
operations-program.                        good potential for fast growth-unparalleled in
In today's world, the move toward increas-   other sectors-open the way to a range of own-
ing private participation in infrastructure is   ership and management structures.
driven by dissatisfaction with the performance  The Bank Croup is supporting these reforms
of state-owned and state-operated infrastruc-   by acting as agent of change and using a wid-
ture enterprises. At the same time, government   ening range of Bank, IFC, and MIGA instru-
finances are precarious, while investment   ments to attract private capital and
needs are on the order of $200 billion a year.   management. Under joint approaches of the
And technical change is making it possible for   three institutions, flexible packages of techni-
smaller scales to be economical-and private.   cal assistance, lending, investment, and guar-
Seeking greater efficiency and better value   antees are being tailored to individual country
for money, regulatory reforms can facilitate   situations.
competition by unbundling potentially compet-  The Bank's work on energy during fiscal
itive ac:ivities (electric power generation and    1994 focused on energy efficiency, energy sec-
distribution) from less competitive activities   tor restructuring and regulation, private sector
(power transmission).                      involvement, gas tradc, rural energy, house-
Where full-fledged competition is absent,   hold fuels, and renewable energy sources-
complementary regulation aimed at protecting   with particular emphasis on the analysis and
the public interest can improve efficiency. New    mitigation of environmental impacts. EPD con-
approaches to regulation are evolving, too-    tinued its analysis of success factors in energy-
aimed at improving incentives for cost control   efficiency programs-with a view to designing
and technical innovation. The choice of the   better country-specific and mark-et-based ap-
right regulatory approach is complex, and   proaches for improving energy efficiency on
while some are better than others, there is no   both the supply and demand sides. Various in-
best scheme for all circumstances. Much de-  itiatives assisted sectoral reforms in key coun-
pends on each industry's structure and each   tries. The Bank encouraged cross-fertilization
country's institutional and civil service capac-   through technical assistance, seminars, and
ity.                                       workshops for policymakers, notably in Brazil.
Private sector financing of infrastructure is   China, India, and several countries of Central
growing fast, although it is still fairly small.   and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet
Both the number of countries and subsectors   Union.
involved have expanded significantly. Apart  The Bank strengthened its work on natural
from power and telecommunications, private   gas, which is abundant and environmentally
participation in infrastructure is entering areas   clean. The challenges have to do with the cdis-
such as airports, railways, ports, toll roads,  tance of many gas fields from the market and



Financial and Piwvte Sector Development   53
Box 3-4. Managing Energy
The joint UNDPIBank Energy Sector Manage-      During the past year, ESMAP assisted coun-
ment Assistance Programme (ESMAP) was cs-   tries such as Bolivia, India, Morocco, and Poland
tablished in the early 1980s to assess the effects in   in planning and carrying out a restructuring of key
developing countries of dramatic changes in cn-   segments of their energy sector. ESMAP house-
ergy prices. With the help of more than a dozen    hold and rural energy activities, one of the pro-
donors, it now focuses mainly on sector restruc-   gram's long-term strengths, continued vigorously
turing, regulation, energy efficiency, and house-   in Bolivia, Chad, India, Jamaica, Mali, Rwanda,
hold fuels, as well as on institution building and    and Viet Nam. Similarly, energy efficiency and
policy advice in selected countries. ESMAP's ac-   conservation efforts, including institution and
tivities, integrated into the Bank's Industry and   local capacity-building work and training in
Energy Department, are often vital complements   demand-side management, have been a major fea-
or preconditions to Bank operations and bilateral   ture of ESMAP work in Brazil, China. Pakistan,
aid programs.                                Tanzania, Zimbabwe, and elsewhere. Oil and gas
In fiscal 1994, ESMAP focused on assisting de-   activities remained important in countries such as
veloping countries as they embark on "second    Mozambique and Morocco, as well as in several
generation" energy strategies. often linked to    Central and Eastern European countries that
broad economic reforms. During this phase, tra-   have substantially underused capacities and an
ditional technical assistance activities take place    urgent need for reliable and clean energy sources.
in conjunction with the implementation of major   In this respect, trade issues associated with the
economic reforms-including restructuring and    development and use of natural gas resources are
regulatory adjustments, price and tariff   an area of particular emphasis for ESMAP's
revisions-and new investment programs that in-   present and future activities.
creasingly embody environmental concems.
the difficulty of transporting the gas. During    tions and their environments. Through finan-
the year, Bank work focused on improving the    cial sector adjustment loans and similar oper-
regulatory framework and on supporting new    ations, the Bank is working with borrowing
projects for transporting gas to the markets-in    countries to build better systems of prudential
such countries as Argentina, Bolivia, and Pa-   bank regulation and transparent accounting.
kistan.                                         Supervision has been strengthened to ensure
FPD continued to administer the joint   that reasonable standards of bank capital are
UNDPIWorld Bank Energy Sector Manage-    maintained-along with the management ca-
ment Assistance Programme (ESMAP), now    pacity necessary to see that it is effectively de-
supported by fifteen bilateral donors. The pro-   ployed. Assistance has also been delivered
grain provides technical assistance to help de-   directly to banks, through capacity-building
veloping countries implement key policy    operations and financial restructuring to
reforms for making the energy sector more ef-   strengthen their ability to respond to effective
ficient and ensuring that investments in the sec-   enterprise demand for investment capital.
tor make the most use of scarce domestic and      Bank restructuring has become a frequent
external resources (see Box 3-4).               component of Bank operations. It aims at iso-
In the realm of financial systems and capital   lating and tackling the nonperforming assets of
markets, experience shows that when a bank-   the banking sector. Bank management and pro-
ing system is in crisis, strong measures are re-    cedures also need reform to prevent the re-
quired at several levels. At the broader level of   emergence of subsequent asset problems.
the banks' business environment, three types    Once the banks are overhauled, it is vital to
of action are necessary. First, the macroeco-    strengthen durably the institutions and pro-
nomic environment has to be improved, and    cesses of bank supervision and regulation so
enterprises restructured so they become    that a recurrence of asset problems is fore-
healthy, productive borrowers. Second, the    stalled. Because the process of bank restruc-
interest-rate regime and the - chemes that pro-   turing is long and arduous, it is vital that Bank
vide targeted, subsidized c;- dit need reform.   supervision of associated loans be intensive for
Third, the financial infrastructure, including    several years. Without intensive supervision, it
the legal, accounting, and regulatory frame-   is unlikely the process of reform will maintain
work, needs to be upgraded.                     sufficient momentum and avoid a relapse.
- Because the financial health of banks deter-  If banking intermediaries are in good health,
mines the quality of resource allocation in an    the Bank and the IFC can usefully lend through
economy, a principal focus of the World Bank    them. Financial intermediary lending, an im-
has been to help strengthen banking institu-    portant instrument for the Bank in achieving its



54   Major World Bank Programs: Rscal Year 1994
developmental objectives, can be very crflc-   opment. The Bank's work in these areas un-
tive in reaching several classes of borrowers   dergirds its financial role. With its repository of
(small industry. farmers. the housing market,  research, knowledge, and information about
municipalities, and infrastructure developers).   development-and w.th its unique global
This lending is a means for the Bank Group to   reach-the Bank is increasingly becoming a
deliver to borrowers the benelr of its excellent   knowledge-based institution. The global econ-
credit standing in global financia! markets. And   omy is increasingly driven by knowledge-by
as the reforrn and restructuring ei forts of linan-   ideas. relationships, and innovations. And
cial sector adjustment loans bea-r fruit-and fi-  value added and comparative advantage now
nancial intermediaries begin to function    come as much from these factors as from raw
efficiently in a sound business environment-   materials, labor, or capital.
financial intermediation lending may well again  As countries move up the developmeent lad-
emerge as an important part of the Bank's lend-   der. their ability to compete and integrate into
ing activities. complementing the IFC's suc-   world mark-ets moves beyond knowing w1hat to
ecssful credit line activities. Market pricing of   do to knowing htow to do it. The Bank is thus
such financial intermediation loans is essential   doing more as a collector and disseminator of
in all cases.                             best practices and innovations for meeting the
The Bank and the IFC are also engaged in a   broad array of requirements to compete in
variety of capital-market development activi-   world markets.
ties. Complementing the IFC's long-standing  FPD has actively disseminated knowledge
work with capital markets in developing coun-   about best practices through conferences, sem-
tries, the Bank is concentrating on the broader  inars, and training programs, often held in col-
issues-such as regu!ation, institutional invest-  laboration with the IFC. In fiscal 1994. FPD
ment capacity, and contractual saving   held sixty seminars and training sessions, pro-
schemes. TIhis work typically includes the pro-   viding more than 1.800 person-days of training
motion of credit transparency through such   to Bank staff Oargely on private sector devel-
channels as independent rating agencies and   opment) and 2,000 person-days to external par-
the development of simple, standardized secu-   ticipants (largelv on finaricial sector
rities, such as bank debentures. The Bank and   development, industry, and energy). The
the IFC have collaborated closely in capital-   Bank's six regional vice presidencies, the IFC.
market development in Mexico. where a joint   and MIGA also organized similar events, cov-
Bank-IFC-Inter-American Development Bank   ering a broad array of topics.
team worked on the design of promising struc-    In May 1994 an innovative Bank seminar on
-ures for a private infrastructure-financing fa-  international experience in restructuring the
cility.                                   coal industry drew government officials from a
The Bank's role in developing capital mar-   broad range of ministries in Russia, as wefl as
kets has depended on the needs and capabili-  industry experts. In addition, a June 1994 con-
ties of its borrowers. In the weaker economies   ference, 'Development, Environment, and
and in the transition economies, the Bank has   Mining: Enhancing the Contribution of the
focused primarily on the provision of basic fi-   Mineral Industry to Sustainable Develop-
nancial services and the creation of sound   ment'-cosponsored by various international
banking intermediaries. For many borrowers,   organizations and attended by 300 government,
the Bank has focused on developmental lend-  industry, and NGO representatives two thirds
ing through financial intermediaries-if their   of them from developing countries-covered
health was assured. For sophisticated borrow-   issues related to mining activities and the pres-
ers, including many larger borrowers such as   ervation of the envircsiment.
Argentina and Mexico, the Bank has been ac-  The Bank and the IFC have forged informal
tive in providing assistance to promote capital   and formal ties with a range of trade groups.
markets. The Bank's resources have also   commercial enterprises, business-promotion
helped strengthen the capacity of governmemnts   agencies, multilateral organizations. and
to promote acceptance and liquidity for secu-   NGOs to bring new ideas to the Bank. build
ritfes backed by creditworthy issuers, which   public support, and initiate joint programs.
might otherwise be unmarketable as a result of  The Bank has also begun holding industry-
concerns about broad economic policy and per-   by-industry roundtables to create an environ-
formance.                                 ment for dialogue and problem solving. A
Better dissemination of knowledge. One of   series of workshops and roundtables on the pri-
FPD's main responsibilities is to enhance the   vate provision of power supply -was conducted
Bank's role in the realms of knowledge. policy   with producers, regulators. donors. govern-
advice, and dissemination of best practices in   ment representatives, and developing country
the area of financial and private sector devel-   operators. These fora helped foster a broad di-



Financial and Private Sector Development  55
alogue, allowed the Bank to listen to experts    In principle. the project could have been
from outside, and facilitated a consensus on the   structured as a Bank guarantee or as a loan
agenda for moving ahead. In the oil and gas   fully disbursed into an escrow account, rather
sector, the Bank has sponsored workshops and   than as a loan with disbursement contingent on
conferences for investors and host countries to   market conditions. The form of the Bank's
develop better understanding of gas trade and   credit extension was not crucial. The product
markets, and of opportunities for investment,  innovation lay in the creation of the facility and
It has also used these fora as a means of dis-  its associated fund-and its potential for help-
seminating experience and best practices. In   ing local market institutions to grow. The
the same spirit, the Bank and the IFC worked   project also says much about the Bank's will-
with the government of Morocco and the pri-  ingness to change. It would disburse against
vate secto; on developing options for attaining   financial assets rather than goods and services;
quickly a higher threshold of competitiveness,  it is supporting market development as its prin-
As a follow up to this work. the Moroccan gov-   cipal objective: and it is focusing not on Bank
ernment hosted a major seminar in early June   disbursements but on facilitating market flows
1994 with the private sector on ways to im-   and creating confidence.
prove the business environment and compete  There was also a Bank effort to expand fi-
in global markets.                         nancial intermediation lending by developing a
Experimenting with Innovative Ideas. During   new format, using the better intermediaries in
the past year. the Bank intensified its work on   countries, with as light a structure as possible.
renewable energy alternatives, working with   The $120 million Private Investment Credit
countries, representatives from the energy in-   Project for Tunisia, approved in December
dustry, and NGOs. The objectives are to iden-   1993. epitomizes the new approach. Under the
tify and prepare solar energy projects suitable   old approach, the Bank would have insisted on
for financing by the Global Environment Facil-  an elaborate structure for apex operations and
ity and other funding sources-and to encour-   on close monitoring of all lending decisions.
age collaboration among countries in research   Now, most lending decisions are up to the in-
and development and in demonstration   termediaries, whose own capital is at risk.
projects.                                   Small and medium-sized enterprises have
The Bank has also been active in developing   an important role in creating jobs. But their
new types of lending assistance to support the   special technical, marketing. and financial
increased role of the private sector in the pro-   needs have proved difficult to meet in a cost-
vision of public services.                effective way. To move forward on this, the
To support domestic bond markets, the Bank   Bank has been working with four NGOs with
has designed catalytic operations that create a   strong track records in delivering credit
bridge between institutional investors (pension   schemes. The repayment rates of many of
funds, insurance carriers, mutual funds) and   these schemes have been high (90 percent to 99
the need for long-term funds for enterprises   percent), but their transaction costs have also
and infrastructure. This will enhance the sus-   been high-primarily to cover their start-up
tainability of the financial system in borrowing   costs and the technical assistance needs of
countries and reduce the heavy reliance on for-  their borrowers. The Bank has been helping
eign exchange.                             these NGOs devise sustainable and replicable
A capital-market development project in Ar-   programs, obtain donor finance, and disseni-
gentina broke new ground by finding effective   nate the results of their efforts. The Bank has
ways of fostering the growth of local market   also engaged governments in policy and insti-
institutions. The $500 million Capital Market  tutional issues that affect small and medium-
Development Project, approved in March   sized enterprises. In this capacity. it acts as a
1994, will help prime-rated commercial banks   broker and partner to help NGOs extend the
overcome longer-term funding constraints   reach and elt ztiveness of their programs.
through a backstop facility that would ensure
them a source of continued funding at prede-
termined financial costs.



r6_
Section Four
World Bank Operations: Fiscal Year 1994
World Bank (IBRD and [DA combined)        Adjustment lending. at $2.425 million. ac-
commitments to countries during fiscal year   counted for 12 percent or the World Bank's fis-
1994 totaled $-0,836 million. down $2,860 mil-  cal 1994 portfolio (S510 million, or 4 percent.
lion from the previous year.              for the IBRD; $1,915 million. or 29 percent, for
The decrease was accounted for principally   IDA). In fiscal 1993, adjustment lending
by a sharp decrease in commitments from the   amounted to slightly more than $4.000 million
ITBRD-from $16,945 million in fiscal 1993 to   ($2,645 million for the IBRD and $1363 million
$14,244 mlllion. IDA commitments, at $6,592   for IDA), or 17 percent of that year's portfolio.
million, were only marginally below fiscal year   To a certain extent, the decline in adjustment
1993's $6,751 million amount. One project, for   lending has been purposeful, especially in
$30 mnillion, in the Occupied Territories was ap-   Latin America, where the transition from ad-
proved. It was funded by the $50 million Trust  justment to lending operations is well under
Fund for Gaza, which had been approved by   way, and in the Middle East and North Africa
the executive directors in the first half of fiscal  region, where no further adjustment operations
1994.                                     are currently being planned for Egypt, Mo-
Shortfills in the IBRD's lending program, as   rocco, and Tunisia.
compared with the budget, which set indicative  In addition, the explosive increase, to $177
WRED lending at between $17 billion and $19.5   billion net, during 1993 of capital flows to de-
billion, were particularly sharp in Latin Amer-   veloping countries .liminated, in some cases
ica and the Canbbean, in the Middle East and   (India, for exarAe), the balance-of-payments
North Africa (where the lending program in Al-  justification for adjustment lending.
geria has suffered), and in South Asia, parnic-  The principal reason for the turnaround in
ularly in India- Increases occurred in East Asia   private flows has been the economic policy re-
and Pacific (up $219 million) and Africa (up $81   forms of developing countries, especially
million).                                 privatization, fiscal consolidation, greater
The number of IBRD and IDA operations ap-   openness to trade, reduction of commercial
proved in fiscal 1994-228-was slightly lower   bank debt overhangs. domestic price liberaliza-
than the previous year's 245- One hundred   tion, and market-oriented reform. To an un-
twenty-four EBRD operations were approved,   quantifiable extent, the World Bank has helped
as opposed to 122 in fiscal 1993. The lending-   to foster the environment that has allowed
instrument "mix"' in fiscal 1994 showed an in-   these flows to increase through its support of
crease in investment operations, which could   policy reform.
not compensate, in volume terms, forthe larger  It cannot be assumed, of course, that $177
size of a typical adjustment loan.        billion in flows will continue to find its way to
The largest borrower of IBRD funds was   developing countries annually. Some of the
China ($2,145 million for eight projects), fol-   money is volatile, and market perceptions, as
lowed by Mexico ($1,530 million for five   well as relatve returns, will change. One of
projects), and Russia ($1,520 million for six   the risk in the years ahead for the developing
projects). The three largest borrowers of IDA    countries is the possibility of a substantial de-
credits were China ($925 million for six   cfine in these flows and the associated conse-
projects), India ($835 million for six projects),   quences.
and Bangladesh ($597 million for three
projects).
The sector with the largest number of ap-  The lower level of World Bank lending had
proved projects was agriculture (forty-six   its consequence for disbursements, as well,
projects), followed by transportation (twenty-   since a substantial part of the reduction in lend-
five projects) and 'multisector," which in-   ing was caused by a decline in fast-disbursing
cludes support for reform programs and   adjustment assistance. Gross disbursements to
emergency imports (twenty-two projects).  countries by the Bank totaled $15,979 million in



Dsburserments   57
Table 4-1. IBID and IDA Foreign and Local Disbursements, by Source of Supply
farmounts in miNions of US ddlars)
IBRD and IDA
Net advance
Foreigne               Local              disbuimentab          ToLal
Period               Amount                Amount       %        Amount        9        amount
Cumulative to
June 30, 1989       85,673      58       58,218       39        3.761         3        147.652
Ftscal 1990            8,883      57        6.099       39          648         4        15,629
Fiscal 1991           8,877       57        6.6t96      42          184         1        15.667
Fiscal 1992           9,038       55        6.807       42          537        -3        16.381
Fiscal 1993           9.813       56        7,887       45        -325        -2         17,375
FLscal 1994           9,009       56        7,442       47        -473        -3         15,979
Cumulative to
June 30. 1994      131,294      58       93,059       41        4,331         2       228.684
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of ronding.
a. Anwunts exclude dcbt reduction disbursements oSr.160 million in FY90. S313 mion in FY91, 550 mElon in FY9, and
5515 million in FY93 for IBRD.
b. Netadvance disbursments are advawnces made to special ccounts net of amounts recovered (amounts forwhich the Bank
has applied evidence of expenditures to recovery of the ousanding advance).
Table 4-2. IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Source of Supply
(amounts in mllions or US dollars)
IBRD                                    IDA
OECD         Non-OECM       Tota        OECD          rfon-OECD      Total
Period           Amount  9%   Amount   %    Amount   Amount   S    Amount   9G   Amount
Cumulative to
June 30, 1989   55,468    86    8,846   14   64,314    17.427   82    3.932    18   21,359
Fiscal 1990       5,290   79      1,388   21    6,678      1,491   68       714    32    2,205
Fiscal 1991       4,953    80    1,230   20    6,183       1,802   67       891    33    2,694
Fiscal 1992       5,067   76      1,634   24    6,701       1,515   65      822    35    2,337
Fiscal 1993       5,048   72      1,928   28    6,976      1,784   63    1,052    37    2,837
FLscal 1994        3,966    73    1.491   27    5,457      2,175   61    1,378    39    3,553
Cumulative to
June 30, 1994   79,793    83   16,517   17   96,310    26,194   75    8.791    25   34.984
Non: Disbursements for debt reduction and net advancedisbursements are excluded. Details may not add to totals because
of munding. OECD amounts are based on cufrent OECD membership. excludn Mexico. which became a mcmber in May
1994,
fiscal 1994: 510,447 million by the IBRD and    ciency in the execution of the project; the
$5,532 million by IDA. In fiscal 1993, gross dis-    Bank's interest, as a cooperative institution, in
bursements by the IBRD  and IDA  were    giving all eligible bidders from  developing
$12,942 million and $4,947 million, respec-    countries and developed countries an opportu-
tively. (The IBRD amount in fiscal 1993 in-    nity to compete in providing goods and works
cluded extraordinary disbursements of $1    financed by the Bank; and the Bank's interest.
billion to Peru when it cleared its arrears.)     as a development institution. in encouraging
Disbursements, by source of supply. Pro-    the development of local contractors and man-
jects financed by the World Bank require pro-    ufacturers in borrowing countries. In most
curement from foreign and local sources to    cases, international competitive bidding is the
achieve project goals. Disbursements are made    most effective method of procurement. The
primarily to cover specific costs for foreign    Bank prescribes conditions under which pref-
procurement and some local expenditures.          erences may be given to domestic or regional
The procurement rules and procedures to    manufacturers and, where appropriate. to do-
be followed in the execution of each project    mestic contractors. Through the end of fiscal
depends on individual circumstances. Three         1994. 58 percent of IBRD and IDA disburse-
considerations generally guide the Bank's re-    ments covered goods and services provided di-
quirements: the need for economy and effi-   rectly by foreign suppliers located outside the



58    World Bank Operatioist FIscal Yeor 1994
Tablk 4-3. IBRD and EDA Payments to Suppliers in Active Borrowing Countries for
Foreign and Local Procurement in Fiscal 1994
(millions of US dollas)
LouI             Foreign          'find             fia
Borrowing countries                        procurea          jxonent            sun           disbursmnunt
Albania.........4                                                  1-               4
Algeria.~~~~~~~~~~~46                                 3               49              03
Angola.2.............t                                                              2a
Atgentina.............173                                        216              199             1.2
Bahamas, The.----......t                                          t                t 
Bangladesh.....128                                                 6              134             0.84
Barbados.1.....2                                                                   3
Beli.......... ...3-3 
Stain ..............7                                              2                9             0.05
Bhutan .........I                                                 1'                I
Bolivia.........                                31                 1              32              0.20
Botbwana ...........4                                             2                 6
Brazil ..............6;                                          151              529             3.31
BWlgria .............t                                            16               16             Gao0
Burlina Faso ...........28                                         1              29              0.18
Bumundi .............14                                           t                14             0.09
Cameroon ............19                                            3                              0.14
Capc Verde............2                                            I                3
Central Afiican Republic ......6                                   t                6
Chad ..............10                                                              to1            0.06
Chsile..............78                                            12               90             036
China ..............1,104                                        273137                           8.62
Colombia.............175                                           6              181             1.14
Cosmors .............                            t2
Costa Rica ............6                                           6               12             0.08
CMe d'Ivoire ...........20                                       41                61             0.38
Croatia.-.:  ...-                                                 11               11             00
Cyprus._21                                                                        43              0.27
CzechReubic.-                                                    27-Z              27             0.17
DjIboti ..............1                                                           2
Dominica..............f                                                             t 
Dominicaa Repu'blic ........14                                    2                16            .0.10
Ecuador .............64                                            1               65             0.41
Egypt. Arab Republic or  .....                  54                 6               60             0.37
El Salvador............22                                          1              23              0.15
EqaoilGuinea .........1                                       5                6
Esronia       .  ........2                                    1                3
Ethiopia.............                           16                8               24              0.15
[ji .................2                                           -                 2
Gabon..-------------4                                              1                5
Gambia,.The         ..4                                            t                4
Ghana..42                                                          3               45             0.21
Guatemala    ..------2                                       2                3
Guinea........ ......17                                            t               17             .1
Guina-Bissau...........5                                           3                S
Guyana.-------------3                                              1                4 
Honduras.............5                                             1                6
Hungary .............74                                           61              135             0.84
Inia.--------------1.206                                         133            1.339             838
Indonesia.............840                                        36              877              5.49
Iran. Islaimic Repubtic of ......22                               7               29as1
Jamaica .............13                                            t               13             0.08
Jordan..............32                                             3               35             0.22
Kaxakhstan............t                                           t                                 a 
Kenya.-------------39                                             so               90             0.56
Korea. Republic of.........165                                  343              508              3.18
Kyrgyz Republic..........6                                        t                6 
Lao People's Denm. Rep. .3                                        12              14              0.09
Latvia .........-                                                 2                2                *
Lebanon.                                         3                6                9              0.06
Lesotho.3.....3...
ULtuania.............6                                           2                80.05



Disursements    59
Laca             Foreign         TOWa           ofo
Bornrwing ounries                                  pnourements       prans             alamoun       disbsmnts
Macedonia.FYR .........       ...............             3                 t               3              0
M    adagascar ,.   .,,,,,,,,,,,,.,..                    2S                 1              26           0.16
Ma lawi ................................                 ZS                 1              27           0.17
Malaysia   ..............................               1IS                27             142           0.89
Matdives ..............................                   I                -                I              *
Mali .......                  .21                                           t    21  0.13
Mau               rittnna                                 8                 7              15    0.09
mautius ..................                                                  1              4               -
Mexico  ...............................                 761                32             792           4.9
Moldova    ..............................                 7                 t               7
Monotia -------------------..---------                    t                 t               t              e
Morocco          -------------                           112                2             114           0.72
M      ozoe . ....... ......b... . .........              4                 I              Is         4o.n
Myanm  ..............................                     1                 5               6 
Nepal .................................                   a                 2              20           0.1
Nicarap ...u............                                  7                  1              7
Nier ....................r                               10                 t              10           0096
N igcria ........................g     ea.......        179               156             33S           2.10
Oman .................................                    2                 2               3
Pakistan ...............................                248                39             287            110
Papua New Guinea                     .       .16                            t              16           0.10
Paraguay .......S..               ........                5                 3               8           0.05
Per ..................................f t                                   9               9           0.06
Philippine s.229                                                           11             240           1SO
Polard ................................2 9                                 56              85           0S53
Romania ...............................                   1                15              16           0.10
Russia ................................                   4               125             I29           0.81
Rwanda .......-.11                                                         - -t  tl                     0.07
Sio Tom6 and Principe .........  ..........               3                -                3
Senegal .---------------------25                                           11              35    0.22
SeycheDles ..............             ........            t                -                t
SierraLeone .............           ,,,..3                                 -                3
Sknoak Rep  ...........                                  -                  2              2
So     a ..........................._.6                                    21               7       L     17
Solomon dands ,,,_------,-,-,,,,                          I                 1               2
SriLanka ..-----------------------5                                         9             59            037
SLTncia .........          ............                   t                 2               2
St Vincent and the Grenadines                             t                 t               t
Sudan ..........                                          7                 1               9           0.05
Tanzania ........              .                         25                 4              29           0.18
Thaland .          ---------------                       92                56             148           0.93
Tog .3  1  4
Tonga .t   -   t
Trnidad and Tobago .2                                                       16             17           0.11
Tunisia .64                                                                 7    70   0.44
Uganda .                                                 30                 1    30  0.19
Ukraic .-                                                                  30   30  0.19
Uruguay .-------------------                             23                11.  34    012
Vanuata .t   -   t   0
Venezuca .25                                                               55   80   0.50
WesternSamoa .............              ...               4                -               4
Yemen. Republic of ......................                21                 1             22            0.13
Zaire ..............                                      8                 6              14           0.09
Zambia .12                                                                  5    18  0.11
Zimbabw .11    24   35   0.22
Tot..                                              7.201   -2066   9.267                              58
-Zero. t less than S0.5 milLion. * less than 0.05 pent.
No. Disbursements for debt reduction and nt advance disbursements are exduded. Details may not add to totals because
of munding.
a. Refers to the share of all IBRD and IDA payments for fiscal 1994 (excluding disbursements for debt reduction). which
totaled 515.979 milion.



60    World Bank Operations: Fiscal Year 1994
Table 4-4. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement
(amounts in millions or US dollars)
I BRO cumulative                IDA cumulative
io June 30. 1994  IBRD rascl 1994  to June 30. 19J94   IDA fiscal 1994
Supplying country                Amwunt   %    Amount   %    Aumont   %    Amount   91
Afghanistan...........               2      *                         
Albania ............*  
Algeria...... ........              25               I              Ii I             2     0.06
Angoa ...... ........                9      *                *       j               t 
Antigua and Barbuda .......* 
Argentina............ 749   0.78                   1s    0.28       92)   0.26      1 1    0.31
Australia ............1.023   1.06                 921    1.69    389      1.11     47      1.31
Austria.............1,249   1.30                  117    2.14    214    0.61        25     0.722
Bahamas. The..........              79   0.08       1'               8       *        
Bahrain.............                66   0.07       2        *     125    0.36       8     0.21
Bangladesh ...........              13      *                *      39    0.11       6     0.16
Barbados ............               11              2        *      4        *        
Belarus ............1t                      *                                *
Belgium.............1.435   1.49                   45    0.82    92)9    2.65       70      1.9
Belize..............1                       *      -I                6              -*
Benin .............                  3      *      -*               13       *       2     0.05
Bhutan .............                 t                               I        *       
Bolivia.24                                  *                        3       S        
BoLswana............                 6      *                        7       *            
Brazil..............1.680   1174                   87    1.59    310    0.89        64      1.81
Bulgaria.............               13      *       9    0-17        S               7     0.18
Burkina Faso ..........              I      *                        7               I   
Burnmdi ............1                                               to * 1   *        
Cambodia ...........                 I      *      -t                        *      -     
Cameroon...............*                                            20    0.06       3     0.07
Canada............-2,2031  2.29                   115    2.11    646       t.85     69      1.95
Cape Verde...........                t      *                                *                *
Central African Republic     .2........  2                                          -
Chad....................             I    
Chile.............. 357   0-37                      9    0.17       30    0.09       3     0.08
China.-------------1,190   1.24                   108     1.88    875    2.50    171    4.80
Colombia ............ 208   0.22                    5    0.09       14               I  
Comoros ...................
Congo.6------1----------- 
Costa Rica ...........              31              5    0-10       11               I 
CMed'Ivoire ..........              35      *                      186    0353      41      1.16
Croatia.............                13      *       8    0414        5       *       3     0.09
Cyprus.-------------                24      *       2        *      30    0.09      19     0.54
Czech Republic .........            34            25    0.45        3       *       3     0.07
Czechoslovakiea.........             25     *      -3                               -*
Denmark ............ 633   0.66                    59     1.08    271    0.77       37     1.04
Djibouti ................                                           23    0.07       1
Dominica.3..................*
Dominican Republic.......          .6       **                       7       *       2     0.06
Ecuador............. 113   0.12                     1                I       *         
Egypt, Arab Republic of .....       47      *       I        *      28    0.08       5     0.14
El Salvador ...........             18               I       *       3      t*
EquatorialGuinea ..........                                          5       *       5     0.14
Estonia......                        I   *                           I               1
Ethiopia ............1                                              I   *   I        8     0.23



Disbuusemenis    61
IBRD cumulativc                     IDA cumulative
to June 30. 1994   IBRD rfsl 1994  to June 30. 1994    IDA ftscal 1994
Supplying country                   Amount    %       Amouut    %       Amount    %       Amount    %
Fiji ..........................           t       *      -                   I        *      -
Finland ......................          399    0.41      36      0.66      115    0.33       14      0.41
France ........................    6,773    7.03    400          7.34    3r529    10.09    386      10.86
Gabon ............                       14               t                 10*    I  *
Gambia,The -...................           3       a      -          S        t              . t
Gennany ..... . .10.. 93   11.31    568                         10.42   3.190    9.12    197         5.55
Ghana ........................           10       *       I                  6        *       2      0.07
Greece ......................           182    0.19       7      0.12       64    0.18        8      0.21
.Grenada .......................           I       *      -                   4        *                 *
Guatemala .....................          17       *                 *       12                I         S
Guinea ........................           3       *      -                   1                t         *
Guinca-Bissau  a----------------                                    *        5        *       3      0.08
Guyana .....................                                        *                 *  I
Haiti ..........................          6                         *        4        S       t
Honduras .....................           12               I         *        2        *       t*
Hungary .---------------------          254    0.26      59      1.08       23     0.07       2      0.07
Iceland ........................          8       *       t                  I                t 
India ..........................        327    0.34      28    O5         624     1.78     105      2.95
Indonesia .....................         145    0.15      10      0.18       71     0.20      27      0.75
Iran, Islamic Republic of .-------      144    0.15       t                184    0.53        7      0.21
Iraq ..............I...........        459    0.48        t         *       30     0.08      -
Ireland ..2......................       15    0.13        5   - 0.08        77     0.22      14      038
Israel .........................        230    024       16      0.29       87     0.25      10      0.28
Italy .-       --- 5,348-. 5.55  227  4.15  1,529  4.37  128  3.61
Jamaica .......................          16       *       t                           *       t
Japan .........................  13,473   13.99    464           8.50   3,887    11.11    228        6.40
Jordan ........................          49    0.05       t         *      129    0.37        3      0.09
Kazakhstan ....................          -        *      -          *        t        *       t 
Kenya ...                                                           ........ 28-  ....... 22t 220  0.63  50  1.42
Kiribati. ................      .                        -                   f        *         
.  Korea, Rcpublic of .............   1341    1.39    287            5.27      604     1.73      56      1.57
Kuwait ........................         2P-    026       29      0.54      205    0.58       42      1.18
Kyrgyz ;epublic:t                             *     ......... .                       *      -
Lao People's D1m. Rep .12                         *    12   0.21  - t                                   *
Latvia ........................ 2                         2                  t                t         *
Lebanon   .            .74  0.08    6   0.10   21  0.06    t                                            *
Lesotho . . . a .... a .. ..              t                                  t    t
Liberia .       .......................  26              -                  21    0.06        2      0.06
Libya .........................          92    0.10       t                  7        5*-
Lithuania    .-2                                  *       2         *       - 2  2   t  .
Luxembourg -----------------.. 70    0.07                 t                 32     0.09       1         *
Macedonia, FYR       ...............     -                                   t                t
Madagascar ...................            8       *      -                   2        *       1
Malawi ........................           2       *        I                10        * 1               *
Malaysia ......................         321    0.33      10      0.18      215     0.61      17      0.48
Maldives ......................           I       *      -          *        t 
Mali ..........................           t
Malta                                    20       *      20      0.36        t               - 
Mauritania  ...............-.....                                           14        *       7      0.19
(coninued)



62    World Bank Operallons: FLscal Year 1994
Table 44 (continued)
-BRD cumulative                     IDA cumulativc
to June 30, 1994   IBRD fiscal 1994   to June 30, 1994    IDA fiscal 1994
Supplying country                  Amount   %       Amount    S6    Amount    91    Amount    %
Maunritius ......                       I    *    t                       13        *        I         4
Mexico ......................    493    031            29      0.53      94      0.27        3      0.07
Moldova ......................         t*                                           *       -*
Mongolia ....................          t               -                                    - 
Morocco .....................    160    0.17             1       *        48     0.14        1
Mozambique ..................          4        *      -                   7                 I 1
Myannmr ....................          23        *       2         *       15                 3      O.Og
Namibia .....................          t               -          *        I                 t 
Nepal ......................            I              -                   3        *        2      0.05
Ncthrlads ..................1                1.91      120     2.20      886     2.53      107      3.01
New Zealand .................    150    0.16            9      0.17       89     0.25        5      0.13
Nicaragua ....................         9        *        I                 6        * 
Niger ........................         3        *       t         *       10        *
Nigeria ....................         388    0.40       74      1.36      300     0.86       82      2.30
Norway ......................    309    0.32           57      1.04      122     0.35       21      0.60
Orman  ..       --.--                 37                 I        *       14                 I         *
Pakistan .....................       109    0.11        12     0.21      164     0.47       27      0.77
Panama ......................    370    U38             8      0.15       48     0.14       21      0.59
Papua New Guinea ......3                       *       -                            *                  *
Paraguay .....................       112    0412        t         t        7        *        3      0.09
Pru ........................         124    013         7      0.14       16        *        2
Philippines ...................       69    0.07        3                78      0.22        8      0.23
Poland ......................        1 64    0.17      54      0.98      41      0.12        2      0.07
Portugal .....................        53    0.05        6      0.10     212      0.61       29      0.81
Qar ......................           123    0.13        t                 13        *        4      0.10
Roman  .....................         252    0.26       12      0.22       64     0.18        3      0.OS
Russia ......................        150    0.16      120      2.20        8        *        5      0.13
Rwanda ......................          3        *      -                   1                 t         *
Sio Tomn  and Principe ........        -                                                               *
Saudi Arabia .................    557    0.58          98      1.79     216      0.62        9      0.24
Senegal ......................        23        *       2                 68     0.20        9      025
Seychelles ...................         -                     t *           t        *       - 
Sierra Leone .        .................  4             -          *        2                -          *
Singapore .-------------------       909    0.94       73      1.34     621       1.78      64      1.80
SlovakRepublic ...............                  *       2                  I                           *
Slovenia .....................        28        *      20      0.37        t   *             t         *
Solomon Islands .........       .       I       *        I        *        I                    I
Somalia ............. ....    I    *    -                         *        2                - 
South Africa .                       385    0A40       38      0.70     664       1.90     154      4.34
Spain ......................    1,075    1.12          65      1.18     228      0.65       34      0.95
Sri Lanka ....................        21        *              0.45       16                 I 1
St. KittsandNevis .                    t    *   -                 *    I    *   -                      *
St. Lucia ...................     I             *       t         *        4        I                  *
SL Vincent and the Grenadines .        t        *      -          0        4        *        t         *
Sudan ......................           5        *       t         *       12        *        1
Suriname .-------------------           I              -                   2        *        t
Swaziand .----   ... .. ... fl 8                                  *  22  0.06   5  0.15
Sweden ......................   1,520    1.58          63      1.16      396      1.13      35      0.99
Switzerland ..................   4,051    4.21        194      3.55      942     2.69       54      1.52
Syrian Arab Republic .....24 ..t                                  *       14        *        2         4



Dlsbunemenis   63
IBRD cumulative                     IDA cumulative
to June 30. 1994    IBRD rfsa 1994    to June 30. 1994  IDA rfical 1994
Supplying country      Amorn.t    %       Amount    56    Amount    56        Amount     %
Tanzania ,....               7       *        t        *        20    0.06        3      0.09
Thailand .   ............  141    0.15        4     0.07       318    0.91       53      1.48
Togo ................       29       *        I        *       21    0.06         t
Tonga ...... .* -                                      * t               *                  *
Trinidad and Tobago         19      I*                          18    0.05       15      0.41
Tunisia ...........                0.09       4     0.07        32    0.09        3      0.08
Turkey ..............      218    0.23       43     0.79       42    0.12         9      0.25
Turkotenistan  ........     -        *                           I                I         a
Uganda .         .--------3    * t-                    *    4                     I    *
Ukraine ..     ,..         29                28     0.51        2                 2 2    0.05
United Arab Emirates       536    0.56        2        *      333    0.95        23      0.64
United Kingdom6 .....   7.380    7.66       523     9.59    4,797    13.71      438    12.34
United States ....   19,381   20.12       751    13.77    3,609    10.32      219      6.17
Uruguay. .----------87    0.09               11     0.19        6        *                 *
Uzbekistan -------                       **                     5                 5      0.14
Vanuatu .    ............                              *                 * t*
Venezuela ...........      465    0.48       18     0.33       167    0.48       37      1.05
VietNam . .        .        42       *        I        *       40    0.11        16      0.45
Western Samoa .2.                    *       _         *        t        *                  *
Yemen. Republic of    -      t       *        t        *      207    0.59         t         3
Yugoslavia, SFR o",,,      854    0.89        5      0.10      16     0.48        4      0.12
Zaire ,,,..   .....         6                 .       *t       36    0410        6      0.16
Zambia,..       .29                           1                1.07    0.30. -           043
Zimbabwe ...........,34                       t        *       85    0.24        24      0.67
-Other .......,          ,, 867    0.90    86      1.57      18_2   0.52        2      147
Total ............, 96,310     100    5,457      100   34.984      100    3.553       100
- Zero. t than SO5 minlion. * less than 0.05 percent
NoT Disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded. Details mav not add to totas becausc
of rounding.
a. Figur rePresent supply fiVn the fowoCr C2Chosl0vakia prior to January 1. 1993.
b. United Kingdom indudes Hong Kong.
c. Fgures represent supply from SFR Yugoslavia in FY1994 for IBRDIIDA as follows: Bosnia-cHrzegovina S4S2 million:
Fedeal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegm) S5.5 milLion.
borrowing country. While most foreign pro-    suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Be-
curement comes from suppliers in developed    cause balances in these accounts cannot be at-
member countries, suppliers from developing    tnbuted to any specific supplying country until
countries have increasingly been effective in    expenditures have been reported to the Bank.
winning contract awards. Through the end of   these are shown as a separate category.
fiscal 1989. 15 percent of foreign procurement     Table 4-2 provides details for foreign dis-
was awarded to developing country suppliers:    bursements by OECD and non-OECD coun-
in fiscal 1994. developing country suppliers    tries for the IBRD and IDA separately.
share was 32 percent of total foreign disburse-    Table 4-3 shows disbursements made in fis-
ments.                                           cal 1994 by the IBRD and IDA for local and
Table 4-1 shows consolidated foreign and lo-    foreign procurement from all active borrowing
cal disbursements for the IBRD and IDA           countries and disbursements madc for goods.
through the end of fiscal 1989 and for each of    works. and services procured from  them  by
the next five fiscal years to the end of fiscal    other Bank borrowers for projects funded by
1994. Advance disbursements consist of pay-   the Bank.
ments made into special accounts of borrow-        Table 4-4 shows the amounts disbursed from
ers. from  which funds are paid to specific   the IBRD and IDA separately for foreign pro-



64   Wodd Bank Operations: Fiscal Year 1994
Table 4-5. IBRD and WDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement,
by Description of Geoads, Fiscal 1994
(maounts in millions or US dollars)
All othier     Total
Equipment    aivi works    Consultants    goods      disburmments:
Supplying country       Amount  SE  Amount  Sb  Amount  S   Amnount  % Amount  Sb
,Afghanistan.........*    t                                                        t      *
Albanria.t.........         t                                                      f 
Algeria.3..............                                3                           3
Angola.t...............*                                                           t 
Antigua andfBarbuda         f      * __                        *    _              t 
Argentina ........ 20   0.27             5    0.90    1    0.10    I   0.22)   26   0.29
Australia.........117   1.59             1    0.26   20    2.59    1   0.29   139   1.54
Austria . ........1.34   1.82)    1    0.14    6    0.827    2    0.47   142   1.58
Bahiamas, The      . t...t....                                     _        S             *
Bahrain .........           5   0.07     1    0.21    t        *    3    0394     9   0.10
Bangladesh........            50.06      t             t       *    1   0.30       6   0.07
Barbados .....  ....                     2    0.31    t        *    I       *     2 
Bclarus...............*                                                                   *
Belgiumn.8.......           9   1.22     5    0.90   13    1273    7    2.05   115    1.27
Benin...........                         2    0.28    t        * _                  
Bhutan.................                                                            j      *
Bolivia .1..........                             S                                 I    
Botswana.2............*2                                                            2     *
Brazil..........139   1.9                8      1.4    3    0.36    1   0-39   151   1.68
Bulgaria ......... 15   0.2             -        *                                16   0.17
Burkina Faso.......         I                                                      I _9 1 * _     
Burundi ............S    f                                     *   4                
Cameroon.3-------*---    3                                                  S      3 
Canada..........106   1.44               6    1.02   68    8.82-    5    1.52   184   2.05
Cape Verde.-----------*t                                        *                   
Central Afirican Republic .        *    _        *_                                 
Chile........... 10   0413    -2    0.31    1                               *    12   0.13
China.--164   2.24    92   16.13    4    0.54   13   3.63   273   3.03
Colombia.4   0.05                        1    0418    1    0.07    I   0.26        6   0.0
Congo    2.........f.....                                                   *     9       *
Costa Rica ...........*    5    0.64    1                                          6   0.07
C6te d'Ivoir ....... 27   0.37    12    2.17    1    0.1t7    t    0.06    4 1   0.46
Croatia .2........          1            8    1.47   -                            I _ * 1    042.I
Cyprus.------ 21   028    -                            1    0410    1             21   0.24
Czech Republic     .       2--   77   0.37   -   5                  t    0412    27   0.30
Denmark......... 63   0.86.  15    2.68   17    2.22-    1   0.20    96    1.06
Djibouti ..............                                              1   0.26      1
Doainica ...........                                           "   _       5 
Dominican Republic          2           __       *     f       S _                  
Ecuador................ 
Egypt, Arab Republicof      3      *     2    0.36    1    0.08    I    0.05      6   0.06.
El Salvador       .1............    Ia
Equatorial Guinea ....      5   0.07    -*S _                               *      5   0.05
Estonia................1I*
Ethiopia .........          8   0.11   -         *          0.05    1             8   0.09
Finland ......... 47   0.65   -                  *     2    0.28    1   0.30    50   0.56
France..........628   8.58    66   11.46   85   11.13    7    2.027  786   8.72
Gabon.................jI*
Gambia, The ....... -              *     t       *                  f       *       
Germany.........657   8.97    45    7.88   44    5.74   20    5.68   766   8.50
Ghana.........              2      *                   I    0.08   -        *      3 



Disbursemenis   66
All other      TotlW
Equipment     Civil works    Consultants    goods      disbusments
Supplying country        Amount  96  Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  96   Amount  %
Greece ..................    11   0.15     3    0.53    t        *     f       *     14   0.16
Guatem      ala ..............    2              -                             *      2       *
Guina .................   -                        *                                  t*     
Guinea-Bissau ..........     3           -         *             *             *      3
Guya   ................      t             I            -                       * 
H       a tti .................  I        -                      * t           *      1       *
Honduras ..............      I           -         *    t        *             * 
Hungary ...............    56   0.76       5    0.91     1   0.07    -         *    61    0.68
Iceland .................   -             -              t   -                        t *
lndia .................    103   1.41    10    1.81    6    0.83    13    3.78   133    1.48
Indonesia ...............   29   0.40    -               t             7    1.93    36    0.40
a, Islsamic Republic of .    7   0.10    -         0             * -           *      7    0.08
fIaq .-----              -                 t   * --             -              * t            *
Ireland .................    8   0.11      t    0.08    9    1.13      1    0.32    18   0.20
srael .................    21   0.28    -          *    5    0.62      t    0.13    26    0.29
Italy ..................   259   3.53    81   14.09    8    1.03    8   220    355    3.94
Jamaica ................   -              -              t       *     t       *      t       *
Japan .................   632   8.63    25    4.42   18    2.30    17    4.73   691   7.67
Jordan .................     3            -              t       *             *      3       *
Kazakhstan .    ............    t                                *                    t
Kenya .----------------   15   0.21        t       *    5    0.65    30    8356    50    056
Kin-bati  .     ..........   t       *    -             -        *   -         *      t 
Korea, Republic of ......    321   4.38    13    2.30    6    0.78     3    0.88   343    3.81
Kuwait -----------------   71   0.98    -          *   -         *    -        *    71    0.79
Kyrgyt Republic ........     t      *    -         *             *             *      t       *
Lao Pcoples Dcma.Rep..    12   0.16    -           S    t        *    -              12   0.13
Latva .................      2           -                       *             *      2       *
Lebanon ...............      t      *     4    0.63    2    0.28       t       *      6    0.07
Lesotho ................            *    -               t       *     t       *      f 
Liberia .................    I             1    0.19-            *    -        *      2       *
Lbya    ...............    t        *    -         * -           * -           *      t       *
Lithuania .   ..............         *             *   _              _                       *
Luxembourg ............      I            -              1  0.13                      2 *   2  *
Macedonia, FYR ........    t        *   -          *   -         *    -     -*        t       *
Madagascar..                 t            -        *  t *                      *   1    *
Malawi .................     I                     *                   t    0t11      I
Malaysia ...............    23   032       1    0.18    t        *     2    0.56    27    0.30
Mali .................                             *             *             *      t       *
Malta .................    20  0.27    -           *         - *      -        *    20       22
Mauritania ..............    7   0.09    -         *          -  * -           *      7    0.ft
Maunitius ...............    t                           t-  *    0.06  t    0.09     1       *
Mexico .................   29   0.40       t       *    t              2    0.48    32    0.35
Moldova ................    t             -        *                                  t 
Mongolia ................                 -        *             *             * t 
Morocco ...............      I      *    -                    011              *      2       *
Mozambique ............      1.                                        t   t   -              *
Myanmar ...............    5   0.07    -           *          t  * -           *      5    0.06
Namibia ................    t       *    -                         *                  t*      *
Nepal ..................                                 2                                    *2
(continued)



66   World Bank Operaffons: Flscal Year 1994
Table 4-5 (continued)
All other      Total
Equipment    Civi works    Consultants    goods      disbarsements
Supplying country       Amount  %   Amount  9G  Amount  %   Amount  Sf  Amount  %
Netherlands   ............  -186   2.54   10    1.80    27    3.46    5    1.38  227    2.52
New Zealand ...........    9    0.12    1   0.25       4    0.48    t        *    14    0.16
Nicaragua ..............    I                    *             *   -         *     I       *
Niger ..................                                                           t       *
Nigeria .................  156    2.13   -       *     t       *                 156    1.73
Norway ................    67    0.91   -        *     6    0.82    5    1.44   78    0.87
Oman ..................    t                                       -         *      
Pakistan ................   18   0.25   18   3.21      2    0.22    t    0.12   39    0.43
Panama ................   29    0.40    t        *           - *   -         *    29    0.32
Papua New Guinea  *......    t                                 *   -         *     t       '
Paraguay ...............    2      *     1   0.26      t       *   -        '      3       *
Peru ..................     7    0.10   -        *     t       *    2    0.49      9    0.10
Philippines .............   I            2    0.41     6    0.74    2    0.44    11    0.12
Poland  .................   55  Q75    t               1   0.09    t    0.06    56    0.62
Portugal ................   16   0.22    1   0.11    15   2.01    2    0.71    34    0.38
Qatar ..................    t       *    4    0.64    -        *   -        *      4       *
Romania ...............    12   0.17    3    0.44      t       *    t        *    15    0.17
Russia .................  124    1.70    t       *     1   0.07    t         *   125    1.38
Rwanda ................     t             .            t       *    t        *     t       *
Saudi Arabia ............   104    1.42    1   0.13    -       *    2    0.53   106    1.18
Senegal ................    9    0.13    1   0.20      t                          I _  *    11    0.12
Singapore ..............    119    1.62    4    0.78   7    0.93    7    1.95   137    1.52
SlovakRepublic .-2 --  --                        *    -        *    t        *    2        *
Slovenia .....     -       ------- -- 18   0.24    2    0.43  t     t t   0.10    21    0.23
SolomonIslands   ........    I      *            *             *    t              I
South Africa ............  155    2.12    t      *     9    1.22   27    7.79   19_   2?13
Spain .............        73    0.99   20    3.49     5    0.69    t    0.10   98    1.09
Sri Lanka ..............    2           _              t   0.05    7    2.00       9    010
SL Lucia ...............    t            1   0.24              *    t        *    2        *
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines ...........   -             t       *             *   -         *     t 
Sudan ..................    1                    *     t                                  *t
Suriname                                      ...............   -* t               t
Swaziland ..............    5    0.06   -        '     t       *    1   -0.25      6    0.06
Sweden ................    84    1.14    4    0.76     4    0.53    6    1.75   98    1.09
Switzerland .............  216    2.95    9    1.51    16   2.14    7    2.06   248    2.75
Syrian Arab Repubic ....    2       *   -        *     t            t        *     2 
Tanzania ...............    3            t             t*            1    0.25     4       *
Thailand ...............    54    0.74    2    0.28    tt            t    0.42    56    0.63
Togo  -........   I                                    - *   _   _                 1    *
Trinidad and Tobago ....    15   0.21    t             t       *    t        *    16    0.17
Tunisia .................    6    0.08   -       *     t    0.06    t        *     7    0.07
Turkey .................   50    0.68    1   0.12       1   0.08    1    0.21    52    0.58
Turkmcnistan  ...........    I
Uganda ................                          *                           * 
Ukraine ................   29    0.39   -        *    -        *    1    032    30    0.33
United Arab Emirates....   14   0.19    3    0.59    -         *    7    1.91    24    0.27
United Kingdomt .......  774   10.57   23    3.94   112  14.59   53   15.17  961   10.67
United States ...........  775   10.59   28    4.82   149   19.43   19    5.45   971   10.77
Uruguay ...............    11   0.16   -         *             *   -         *    11    0.13
Uzbekistan .............    5    0.07   -        *       *   -               *     5    0.06



Disbursements   67
Table 4-5 (continuedJ
All othcr       Total
Equipment     Civil works    Consultants      goods      disbursements
Supplying country         Amount  %    Amount  %   Amount  96   Amount  %    Amount   %
Venezuela ...............    55   0.76    -                 t    *        -    *         55    0.62
Viet Nam ...............      1 6   0.23     t    0.06    -      *        -     *        17    0.19
Ycmen, Republic of ......      t   *         t    0.08    -                t    *          I    *
Yugoslavia, SFRofb  ....       I   e         9    1.50    -              __    *         10    0.11
Zaire ..................       6   0.08    -                t    *         -    *         6    0.06
Zambia .................       4   0.06      t      e       t    *         t    0.13      5    0.06
Zimbabwe .21   0.29    -                                    1    0.08     2    0.57      24    0.26
-Other ................       35   0.48      1    0.24    60    7.76    41   11.86    138    1.53
Total ..............   7,319 100       573  100       767  100      350  100      9,009  100
- Zcro. t less than 50.5 mnillion. ' less than 0.05 percenL
NoTE: Disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded. Detauls may not add to totas because
of rounding.
a. United Kingdom includes Hong Kong.
b. Figtrns represent supply from SFR Yugoslavia in FY94 for IBRDIIDA as follows: Bosiia-Herzegovina S4.2 million:
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) SS5. million.
Tabk 4-6. IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Description of Goods,
for Investment Lending, Fiscal 1992-4
1992                      1993                       1994
Item                 OECD  Non-OECD   Total  OECD  Non-OECD  Total  OECD  Non-OECD   Total
milrions of US dollars
Investment lending
Civil works            339      154       493    337       176       513    317       209       526
Consultants            577       72       649    612       105       717    6.5       125       740
Goods                2,665      456     3,121  2,888       597    3,485  2,816        865     3,681
AU other                81       50       132    246       142       388     59        70       128
Total                3,662      732     4,394  4,083      1,020    5,103  3,807      1.268    5.075
percents
Civilworks            .69        31        11     66        34        10     60        40        10
Consultants             89       11        15     85         15       14     83        17        15
Goods                   85       15        71     83         17       68     77        23        73
All other               61       38         3     63        37         8     46        55         3
Total                   83       17       100      80       20      i1o      75        25       100
NoTEr Disbunemnents for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded. Disbursements for structural adjust-
ment loans, sector adjushment loans. and hybrids (loans that support policy and institutional reforms in a specific sector by
fmancing both a policy component disbursed against imports and an investmnt component) are also cxduded. OECD
amounts are based on current OECD membership. excluding Mexico. which became a member in May 1994.
All of he percenuagcs are bused on the dollramounts shown underthe total disbursements section. Thesc percentages show
both the breakdown between OECD and non-OECD countries for individual goods categories and the share of each goods
category compared with total disbursements.
curement of goods and services from member    bursed are compared with respect to significant
countries in fiscal 1994 and cumulatively           categories of goods procured from foreign sup-
through fiscal 1994.                                 pliers. The extent to which OECD and non-
Table 4-5 shows the proportion of foreign    OECD  countries participated in supplying
disbursements from the IBRD and IDA for spe-    these major categories of goods in each of the
cific categories of goods and services provided      past three fiscal years is also compared.
by member countries in fiscal 1994.                    In all of these tables IBRD figures exclude
Table 4-6 provides a summary listing of the    disbursements for loans to the International Fi-
amounts paid to OECD and non-OECD coun-    nance Corporation and 'B" loans. IDA figures
try suppliers in each fiscal year from  1992 to    include Special Fund and Special Facility for
1994 under investment projects. Amounts dis-    sub-Saharan Africa credits. Disbursements for



68   Woad Bank Operalans: Fiscal Year 1994
Project Preparation Facility advances are ex-   a major challenge. There is the need to restore
cluded for both the IBRD and IDA. Minor ad-   efficiency and commitment wiLhin the civil ser-
justments have been made betwecn the foreign    vice, which has been eroded over time by the
and local disbursements for fiscal 1993 as re-   politicization of career management and de-
flected in Tables 4-1. 4-2, 44, and 4-6.    clining remuneration in real terms. This dcte-
roration in public administration constitutes a
Technical Assistance                        major obstacle to launching needed policy re-
Technical assistance activities financed   fonns, restoring good govemance, and improv-
through IBRD loans and IDA credits continue   ing the delivery of public services.
to represent a significant segment of total Bank  The Bank is paying increased attention to the
lending. A number of reasons underlie the in-   strategic management of technical assistance
crease in technical assistance activity in recent   for institutional development through the tar-
years.                                     geting of public sector management and insti-
* First, an increase in technical assistance   tutional development issues in economic and
for institutional development is an appropriate   sector work and country-stratcgy work. A by-
complementary response to efforts to deepen    product of this increased upstream effort is an
policy reforn and retool the public sector for   enhanced policy dialogue with governments on
its new roles. It may also reflect the current   systemic institutional issues and countrywide
phase of Bank assistance after key macr4 pol-   management of technical assistance. The result
icy changes have been put in place.         could be reform-based adjustment operations.
* Second, there has been a shift in lending to   freestanding technical assistance, and im-
human resources development and environ-   proved institutional development interventions
mentally sustainable development and away   in projects. Overall, although there has been
from adjustment loans. Historically. these sec-   some progress in this area and some best prac-
tors have had the highest percentage of tech-   tices are emerging, more time is required to
nical assistance components as a share of total   build up skills in macro-institutional analysis
lending-well above 10 percent.              and to integrate public sector management is-
- Third, there has been a general decline in   sues into economic and sector work and the
grant funding for technical assistance from the   country dialogue. In a number of countries.
United Nations Development Programme   these issues are highly sensitive and require
(UNDP) and bilateral donors, particularly to   time and persistence to build up borrower own-
some of the Bank's major borrowers who are   ership and commitment at the highest levels.
major recipients of technical assistance com-  Use of local consultants. The Bank encour-
ponents.                                   ages borrowers to employ local consultants ei-
Loan-financed technical assistance (free-   ther alone or in combination with foreign finns.
standing and components) by the Bank in cal-   To some extent, however. local consultants
endar year 1993 amounted to $2.2 billion. Of   have been handicapped by a lack of marketing
this amount, $1.9 billion. or 85 percent of the   expertise. The Bank is currently financing the
total, funded components of projects. while   preparation of a "how-to" manual that deals
$300 million was accounted for by twenty-two   with consultant operations and mark-eting.
freestanding technical assistance projects. Ten    When finished, it will be the focus of discussion
countries (led by Brazil, China, Indonesia, and   in one-week seminars in preselected borrowing
Mexico) accounted for more than half of all   member countries. The Bank will follow up the
technical assistance financed through Bank   seminars by monitoring progress made by local
lending. These large technical assistance bor-  firms and by facilitating their association with
rowers share common characteristics: They   firns from industrialized countries.
are long-standing, mature borrowers and have  In addition. during the past year. workshops
the capacity to work with the Bank in deter-   were held at the Bank's headquarters for con-
mining their technical assistance needs. In ad-   sultant associations from Africa. Asia. and
dition, because most receive inconsequential   Latin America to review ways and means to
amounts of technical assistance grants from    enhance participation of their member firms.
bilateral and multilateral donors, the technical   The increased emphasis the Bank is giving to
assistance provided by the Bank is highly val-  the issue of local consultant use is, in part. a
ued.                                        response to feedback from borrowers that the
Key issues of technical assistance. With the   development of greater institutional capability
drive toward open and competitive markets of   is essential to project success-and that this
hitherto centralized economies, a new set of   includes making more use. and improving the
issues is emerging. In many countries, down-   capabilities, of local consultants.
sizing the large bureaucracies that have been  Institutrional Developmcnt Fund (IDF). The
set up to manage state-led economic policies is  IDF, which became effective on July 1. 1992.



CofInanclrc   69
was designed to fill gaps in the Bank's set of   vances have been made to sub-Saharan African
instruments for financing technical assistancc   countries.
for institutional development work associated  Tuie Bank aned tnwe UNDP. The Bank inter-
with policy reform, country economic manage-   acts with the UNDP through many programs
ment programs, poverty-reduction programs,   and at many levels. During calendar year 1993,
public sector management, private sector de-  the Bank was the executing agency for 132
velopment, and environment management.    UNDP projects having a total value of $303
The IDF provides a quick-response instru-   million. This reflects a decline from 1992, when
ment for funding small, action-oriented propos-  the Bank was the executing agency for 175
als identified during (and closely linked to) the   projects with a total value of $348 million. This
Bank's economic and sector work and policy   trend is expected to continue as the UNDP's
dialogue in countries where institutional devel-  total resources continue to decline and as the
opment is a significant country-assistance ob-   UNDP accelerates the shift from agency exe-
jective. There is a $500.000 ceiling on   cution to national execution and from project
individual grants. All borrowing member coun-   to program financing. At present. the loss of
tries of the Bank are eligible to apply.  funding by the UNDP has been more than ad-
The introduction of the IDF was partially   equately compensated for by funding from
driven by the expectation of a pent-up demand   other sources, notably Japan's Policy and Hu-
for a grant facility to address capacity-building   man Resources Development Fund. In the long
requirements in many countries. This expecta-   term, however, the decline of untied grant fund
tion has not yet fully materialized. Demand for   for technical assistance from the UNDP will be
IDF resources has been limited partly as a re-  felt in many operations. The Bank and the
sult of its newness and also because of the   UNDP are reviewing the implications of this
availability of resources from competing trust  trend.
funds. In calendar year 1993, fifty-three grants  At the same time, many borrowers. particu-
were approved to forty-three countries for a   larly in Latin America, are using the services of
total amount of $14.3 million. Some delays in  the UNDP to implemcnt technical assistance
implementation have occurred, inevitably   financed by the Bank. This is done through two
caused by the introduction of a new program    mechanisms: first, a cost-sharing arrangement
that required putting in place special proce-   under which proceeds from Bank loans are
dures and familiarizing member governments   comingled with UNDP funds to create unified
and staff with the new grant facility.    UNDP projects. executed either by the UNDP
Notwithstanding the IDFs modest start-up.   or by others; second. a management-service
the use of IDF funds has permitted the Bank to   agreement-a form of contractual relationship
help initiate difficult institutional changes. such   between the Bank's borrower and the Office of
as reform of economic ministries in Albania.   Project Services of the UNDP for the imple-
disseminate the experience of privatization in   mentation of Bank-financed technical assis-
Poland. and enable timely work to begin on a   tance. This arrangement is particularly helpful
privatization strategy for Belarus.       in exnediting implementation by taking advan-
Project Prepararion Facility (PPF). The PPF   taje of the UNDP's "privileges and immuni-
was established in 1975 when the executive di-  tis'" to process important transactions with
rectors authorized the Bank's president to ap-   minimum delay.
prove project preparation advances to an    The Bank and the UNDP also collaborate in
aggregate amount of $5 million. At the time. it  the field of aid coordination .o ensure that tech-
was expected that the typical tasks would cost   nical assistance issues receive adequate atten-
in the range of $50,000- $150.000. This limit was   tion at consultative group meetings chaired by
subsequently raised in 1978 to $1 million and to  the Bank and at roundtables chaired by the
$1.5 million in 1986.                     UNDP.
During fiscal 1994, a new ceiling of $2 million
per advance was established for all advances   Corl2JGficmng
except those in connection with loans exceed-  The Cofinancing and Financial Advisory
ing $200 million; for them, the ceiling was set at   Services (CFS) vice presidency continued to
$3 million.                               play a catalytic role in facilitating the flow of
At the end of calendar year 1993, 138 PPF   financial resources to developing countries by
advances had been approved, involving a total   undertaking various activities relating to cofi-
commitment of $84 million. One hundred one   nancing. project financing. and private sector
advances. for an amount of $49.6 m-illion. had   development. Thcse activities included provid-
been made on IDA terms, and thirty-seven ad-   ing operational support and technical assis-
vances. for an amount of $34.3 million, had   tance to the Bank's country departments.
been made on IBRD terms. Most of the ad-   borrowing member countries. and cofinancing



70   World Bank Operaflans Rscal Yeor 1994
partners such as donor governments, official   the United States ($66 million). Total corinanc-
development aid agencies, export-credit agen-   ing currently expected from multilateral rinan-
cies, and international financial markets.  cial institutions amounted to $3.4 billion. The
In fiscal 1994. the volume of cofinancing an-   Inter-American Development Bank. with
ticipated in support of Bank-assisted opera-   $1,021 million of planned cofinancing. contin-
tions was $8.8 billion, down from the $11.6   ued to be the largest multilateral cofinancier.
billion mobilized in fiscal 1993 (see Table 4-7).   accounting for 30 percent of the total.
This reduction was directly related to the de-  The power sector attracted the largest
clines in IBRD and IDA lending commitments   amount of cofinancing with an aggregate of
during the year. which fell short of fiscal 1993   $2,100 million (as opposed to $3.116 million in
amounts by $2.860 million.                 fiscal 1993). It was followed by transportation
The decline is also the result of economic   ($1,929 million, down from $2.107 million in the
slowdown in both donor and borrowing coun-   previous year): agriculture ($1,106 million);
tries. which has contributed to a significant cut   telecommunications ($519 million): and the
in aid and investment budgets on both the sup-   multisector category of lending. which includes
ply and the demand sides. The diminishing   lending in support of reform programs and of
weight of quick-disbursing operations in the   reconstruction and rehabilitation programs
portfolio of Bank operations, as well as the   (S437 million).
slow pace of the project cycle arising from the  In fiscal 1994, three main activities were car-
increased attention to qualitative aspects of in-   ried out in CFS to formulate a policy frame-
terventions, also played a role. Nonetheless.   work to facilitate cofinancing as a main
the decline in cofinancing is viewed with con-   business tool. They were (a) the undertaking of
cern in view of the need for increased financial   a Cofinancing Task Force study that focused
flows to developing countries.             on developing a coherent Bank policy on cori-
The cofinancing figures, which represent   nancing and identifying other ways the Bank
planned cofinancing. not actual commitments   can play a catalytic role in facilitating capital
by cofinanciers, are captured at the time of the   flows to developing countries; (b) the launch-
presentation to the executive board of each   ing of a special policy study on how to main-
IBRD and IDA operation.                    stream the use of guarantees to mobilize
About 51 percent of all Bank-assisted    private capital in support of Bank operations.
projects and programs were cofinanced in fis-   particularly for privatized energy and infra-
cal 1994, up from 49 percent in the previous   structure investments; and (c) the establish-
year. Although official cofinancing declined to    ment of Accelerated Cofinancing Facilities
$6.3 billion from $8.1 billion in fiscal 1993, it   with the Export-Irnport Bank- of Japan. under
still accounted for the largest source of antici-   which cofinancing will be arranged using an ac-
pated cofinancing support, some 72 percent of   celerated and streamlined procedure.
the total. Export credit and private cofinancing  In March 1994, the Cofinancing Task Force
fell from $1.2 billion to $591 million and $2.3   issued a report that addressed various cofi-
billion to $1.9 billion, respectively. The only   nancing-related issues and concerns. The task
notable exception to this trend was the support  force concluded that cofinancing has been. and
mobilized from the private sector in the East   will continue to be. an important activity for
Asia and Pacific region, which reached $1.3 bil-  the Bank as an instrument for maintaining part-
lion for the year. compared with $373 million    nerships between the Bank and other donors to
during fiscal 1993. Investment loans received   accompiish joint objectives and to mobilize sig-
the largest share of cofinancing support, fol-   nificant development resources from official
lowed by structural adjustment loans and sec-   institutions, private sources, and export-credit
tor adjustment loans,                      agencies.
In fiscal 1994, official cofinancing provided  The Accelerated Cofinancing Facilities with
by Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation   the Export-Import Bank of Japan are designed
Fund and the Export-Import Bank of Japan   to tap Japan's ever-increasing official develop-
continued to account for the largest percentage    ment assistance in a more active and system-
of bilateral support to Bank-assisted opera-   atic manner. In the summer of 1993. the
tions. reaching a total of $1,404 million equiv-   Japanese authorities announced their Funds
alent for thirteen projects approved in fiscal   for Development Initiative, consisting of a
1994, or 48 percent of the aggregate amount   pledge totaling approximately $120 billion
of bilateral cofinancing. Other large bilateral   equivalent over the 1993-97 period. The Japa-
cofinancing support came from Germany ($196   nese authorities emphasized cofinancing with
million equivalent), France ($84 million equiv-   the Bank and other international develop-
alent). Sweden ($78 million equivalent), the    ment institutions as one of the initiative's op-
United Kingdom (S71 million equivalent). and   erational priorities. The facilities would allow



Cofinoncng    71
Table 4-7. World Bank Corinmcing Operations, by Region, Fiscal Years 1993-94
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
Projects            Source crcofinancine            World Bank      Total
cofinanced    Ofricialb    Export credit    Private  contribution
Region and year   No. Amount  No. Amount No. Amount No. Amount  IBRD    IDA              costs
Africa
1993           41   1,198.6  41  1,185.1   1     10.0   2     3.5    27.0  1,588.9  3,288.3
1994           35   1,592.9  31  1,538.4  -       -    8    54.5      7.7  1,649A   3.698.9
East Asia and
Pacific
1993           13  1,113.1  11   583.9  2    156.5   2   372.7   880A    166.9  3,392.2
1994           14  1.948.0   9   5152   1       92.0   7  1,340.8  1,8985   634.9  7,261.8
South Asia
1993           11  2,189.0  11 1,800.0  2    289.0   1    100.0  1.145.0   949.0  8,1822
1994            9   1,584.1   9  1,258.7   1    300.0   1    25.4   474.0   948.7  8,875.7
Europe and
Central Asia
1993           18  1,433.5  18 1,433.5  -         -   -        -  2,041.0   100.4  4,351.7
1994           25   1,80.0  22   901A   3    173.6   5   205.0 2,253.3    44.6  4,965.7
Latin America and
the Canibbean
1993           27  3.741.6  27 2,008.7   1    699.8   3  1,033.1  2,721.3   248.5  10,65.7
1994           25   1,582.7  22 1,447.5   1       1.9   5    133.3  1.739.5   264.5  5,615.1
Middle East and
North Africa
1993           10  1.919.9   8  1,077.4   1     47.8   3   794.7  1,239.0      -    6,132.0
1994            9    781.3    8   649.5   1     23.0   2    108.8  561.0   100.0  3,213.0
Total
1993          120  11,595.6  116 8,088.5  7   1,203.1  11  2,304.0 8,053.7 3,053.7  35,912.0
1994          117  8,768.9  101 6,310.6  7    590.5  28  1,867.8 6.934.0 3,642.1  33,628.8
- Zerio.
NoTE: The nmnberof operations shown underdifferent sources add up to a figr exceeding the total numberof cofinanced
projects because a number of projects were cofmanced bum morm than one source. Details may not add to totals because
or romnding.
a. These statistcs are comnpiled from the firncing plans presented at the time of approval ofthe World Bank loans and credits
by its board of executive directors. The anounts of official corinancing are. in most cases, finn comniitnents by that stage:
Cxpolrt credits and private cofinancing amounts, however. are genecrally only estimates since such colmiancing is xtually
aranged as required for project implementation and gets firmed up ayearor two after board approval. 'rhe staisics of private
cofinancing in these tables for any fiscal year do not necessarily reflect market placements in that year.
b. These figures include cofinancing with untied loas from the Export-Import Bank of Japan.
the Bank to mobilize cofinancing resources    during fiscal 1994. Of particular importance in
more easily and systematically in support of its   this context was the adoption of guidelines for
priority operations. Similar cofinancing ar-    donor financing of civil service compensation,
rangements will be pursued with other donor    which will be followed in future interventions
countries.                                        by donor member countries participating in the
The Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for    program. Considerable progress was also made
sub-Saharan Africa constituted the most im-    in implementing previously approved SPA
portant aid coordination and cofinancing exer-    guidelines for simplifying and harmonizing do-
cise promoted by the Africa region. The third    nors' procedures for disbursing balance-of-
phase of the program was launched in October    payments support.
1993, covering the period 1994-96. By the time      As in previous years, the donor community
of the April 1994 meeting of SPA donors, $6.6    provided substantial support throughout the
billion of quick-disbursing balance-of-    yearto the Bank through trust funds and other
payments assistance had already been pledged.    external funding arrangements. Contrary to
In addition to mobilizing resources, the key    generally decreasing cofinancing trends, this
SPA objective of improving the quality of do-    type of support is growing. The Policy and Hu-
nors' adjustment assistance was also advanced    man Resources Development (PHRD) Fund.



72 Wortd Bank Operations: Fiscl Year 1994
financed by Japan. continued to provide a   public, tourism in Egypt, and for a variety of
broad range of support for various Bank-   projects in Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, and
supported progrms and projects in fiscal 1994.   elsewhere.
Fund grants totaling $141 million were ap-  CFS continues to provide specialized advi-
proved for technical assistance for preparing   sory services to member countries on debt re-
200 Bank-assisted projects in eighty-seven   duction under both the Debt-reduction Facility
countries. Continuing support was also pro-   for IDA-only Countries and the 'Brady" type
vided to the EDI and to finance scholarship   of debt and debt-service reduction (DDSR)
grants. Among the special programs approved   programn. CFS, which administers the Debt-
was a grant to support Russia's privatization   reduction Facility, provides extensive legal
and restructuring program. The first opera-   and reconciliation work prior to the structuring
tional review of the PHIRD Fund, completed   of complex debt-reduction operations. During
during fiscal 1994, concluded that the fund was   the year4 facility operations were completed in
fully meeting the objectives for which it was   Uganda and Bolivia, while similar operations
established and that it had been particularly ef-   were under preparation in Albania, Ethiopia,
fective as a source of untied technical assis-   Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Sio
tance for project preparation. The review also   Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Tanzana,
noted that the fund also helped the Bank expe-   and Zambia. Under CFS's monitoring of the
dite its work on private sector development.    DDSR progam, extensive financial and sensi-
The Consultant Trust Fund Program-which   tivity analyses are performed, and soundings
makes available consultancy services in sup-   are conducted to assess the receptivity of mar-
port of the Bank's operational work in borrow-   kets and creditors to proposed DDSR pack-
ing member countries-also continued to   ages. DDSR operations under preparation
grow. Ten new trust funds were established in  include those for Bulgaria. the Dominican Re-
fiscal 1994, with grants totaling $29 million.   public, and Poland. A deal for Brazil was com-
The program, which is now supported by   pleted in April 1994.
twenty-six donors, including four developing  CFS consolidated its position as a technical
member countries, allocated $52 million in fis-   center for privatization and private sector de-
cal 1994, enabling the Bank to tap new sources   velopment services. The primary focus contin-
of expertise and to undertake a wider range of   ued to be on providing technical services to the
analytical work in priority areas and issues, in-   Bank's six operational regions for the design
cluding the environment, poverty reduction,   and implementation of Bank privatization and
health and nutrition, and women in develop-   private sector development operations. Spe-
ment.                                      cialized support was given to almost fifty
Projects in the power, telecommunications,   projects covering all aspects of public enter-
and transport sectors dominated CFS's   prise reform, privatization programs. divesti-
project-finance activities in fiscal 1994, with   tures. and project financing. Increasing focus
substantial increases taking place in the use of   was given to private sector participation in in-
expanded cofinancing operations (ECOs). The   frastructure sectors such as telecommunica-
ECO program uses limited Bank guarantees   tions. transport. and water supply.'
against certain specified risks, such as sover-  Several technical assistance programs-in
eign risks, to encourage private financing, ob-   Argentina. Kazakhstan, Paklistan, Romania,
tain or increase access to capital markets, and   and Ukraine, for example-were managed di-
provide improved terms-especially longer   rectly by CFS in support of privatization pro-
maturities-for projects in developing coun-   grams. Pilot projects were also implemented in
tries. In March 1994, the executive board ap-   areas such as small-scale privatization. retail
proved a $120 million ECO in the syndicated   sector privatization, trucking privatization.
loan market for China's Yangzhou Power   and the development of business programs in a
Project, while in May, proposals for a $100 mil-   number of the republics of the former Soviet
lion ECO to support commercial bond financ-   Union. In Pakistan, a team was rapidly de-
ing for part of the $1.3 billion Leyte-Luzon   ployed to help reinvigorate Pak-istan's privati-
Geothermal Power Project in the Philippines   zation program, while in Romania an
and for an ECO guarantee of up to $50 million   innovative assistance effort was mounted to
to help finance a telecommunications project in   help develop management contracts as one of
Jordan were approved. Other ECOs under ac-   the country's privatization strategies. This di-
tive development include those for projects in   rect assistance to client governments was le-
Chad. China. Colombia, Lebanon. and Mo-
rocco. The CFS vice presidency is also en-
gaged in structuring non-ECO project finance    D eails or the Bank's activities in private sector devclop-
for power in Jamnaica and the Dominican Re-    ment during the year may be found bcginning on page 50.



Improving Portfolo Management. APcountablilty. and Openness  73
veraged by funds mobilized from bilateral   excessive preoccupation with lending targets
donors.                                    and volumes to a greater concern with the de-
Best practice and comparative studies were   velopment results in the field of Bank-
also undertaken to disseminate cross-country   supported operations.
experience, and new instruments and ap-      Since the executive directors' approval of
proaches were designed to mobilize private fi-   the action plan in July 1993, significant
nance for privatization and enterprise    progress has been made in various areas. They
development. Six papers in the 'CFS Discus-  include, but are not limited to:
sion Papers" series were published, and three  * Placing portfolio performance, or the man-
studies were launched, one assessing Eastem    agement of operations under implementation.
Europe's experience with medium-scale and   at the center of country-assistance strategies.
lage-scale trade sales, another comparing in-   Improved guidelines for the formulation of
ternational postal reforms, and a third review-   country-assistance strategies now mandate
ing private sector support for the power sector   that the Bank's six operational regions account
in several developing countries.           for portfolio performance in the design of their
Improving Portfolio Management,            country-assistance strategies and business
plans.
Accountability, and Openness                 * Restnucturing projects and country portfo-
In fiscal year 1992, the Task Force on Port-  lios. and, as a measure of last resort, canceling
folio Management, charged with examining the   problem projects-
quality of the World Bank's project portfolio  * Improving the quality of projects at entry
and making recommendations on what might   by ensuring country commitment to the project
be needed to reverse the decline in the propor-   at the outset, .fostering broad-based participa-
tion of successful projects over the past de-   tion in project design, and monitoring stake-
cade, was formed.                          holder commitment throughout the life of the
Its report, transmitted to the Bank's execu-   project.
tive board in November 1992. found that      * Simplifying and modifying the Bank's cofi-
although more than three quarters of Bank-   nancing practices so as to minimize project
assisted projects demonstrated good perfor-   complexity that is often associated with cofi-
mance during implementation, there had been a   nancing.
decline in the performance of the portfolio. Ac-  * Introducing more rigorous analysis of
cording to the report, worsening external and   project risk and sensitivity during project prep-
country environments contnbuted prominently   aration and throughout implementation
to the performance decline. Certain aspects of   through the issuance of new operational policy
Bank practice also contributed to portfolio-   and Bank procedures statements, as well as the
management problems or were not sufficiently   distribution of a handbook on risk and sensi-
effective in resolving them. The task force's  tivity analysis that provides more extensive
fundamental conclusion was that the institution   guidance at the sectoral level.
needed to modify some of its key institutional  * Increasing budgetary resources devoted to
values that shape its approach to all facets of its   project supervision. including increasing the
lending operations.                        role of field offices in enhancing portfolio man-
Early in fiscal 1994, the executive directors   agement.
endorsed a detailed plan of action designed to  * Enhancing the role of the Operations Eval-
make the Bank more effective in pursuing its   uation Department (OED) and strengthening
basic goal of reducing poverty in borrowing   the application of evaluation results to the
countries.                                 Bank's current operations.?
As the core of its action plan. the Bank in-  * Providing intensive training to borrowers
troduced a country-by-cou.try approach into   on the Bank's procurement processes so as to
the management of its lending operations. This   speed up project implementation. For its part,
was designed to allow it to take a strategic view   the Bank is preparing standard bidding docu-
of its $148 billion portfolio. To complement the   ments for some specialized areas of procure-
changes it made in its own policies and prac-   ment, and a committee was formed to ensure
tices. the Bank began collaborating with the au-   Bankwide consistency on decisions for the
thorities in borrowing countries to review the   award of large contracts.
perf.ormance of the portfolio in each country
and resolve systemic problems:
The various initiatives set in motion to im-   2Details or the mask forces report, as wetl as ofihe action
prove portfolio performance represented an  pi endorsed by the BankCs cxecutive directors. may be
.. - . . ..... . . ..founed on pk=  "16 Of the World Bank An=al Report
important shift in the Bank's business    for eikscil 1993.
practices-from what was perceived to be an    For details. see page 154.



74   World Bank Operations Fiscil Year 1994
Box 4-1. Independent Inspection Panel Is Established
An independent Inspection Panel, which will re-   tember 1993 to establish the panel in its currcnt
ceive and investigate complaints that the Bank   form.
has not followed its own policies and procedures  An investigation by the panel must be re-
with respect to the design. appraisal, and/or im-   quested by a group of people adversely affected
plementation ofa development project that it sup-   by a particular Bank project. After the Bank's
ports. was established in fiscal 1994. and the    executive directors have considered a request for
appointment of its chairman and members an-   inspection, the Bank will make publicly available
nounced in April 1994.                     the request for inspection. the panel's recommen-
The panel complements the Bank's existing    dations on the request, and the executive direc-
systems for quality control in project preparation   tors decision on whether to proceed. The Bank
and implementation. As such, it will help the cx-   will also make publicly available the panel's re-
ecutive board in its governance of the Bankc and    port on its investigation and the management's
will not affect the president's accountability to   response to it. In addition, the panel's annual re-
the executive directors for the management of   port to the executive board will be published by
Bank operations. The panel is part of the Bank's  the Bank.
policy of improving project implementation, ac-  Inspection in the territory of a country will be
countability, and openness. The panel will be    undertaken with the consent of its government.
functionally independent and will report directly  Panel mcmbers are appointed on the basis of
to the Bank's executive board              their professional qualifications, as weEI as their
The envirnnment favoring the establishment of   developmental knowledge and experience. Mem-
an independent inspection function in the Bank    bers are nominated by the Bank's president and
was fostered by the confluence of two events: the   are appointed by the executive directors- The
taking of office in September 1991 ofa new World    members, other than the chairman will serve ini-
Bank president, who undertook to review the   tiaily on a partine basis.
overall efficiency of Bank operations. and grow-  Appointed for a Fve-year term was Ernst-
ing criticism of the Bank on the part of nongov-   Gunther Broder, wao served as president of the
eromental organizations. which reflected a broad    European Investment Bank and as German gov-
concern by some of the Bankis larger sharehold-   ernor of the European Bank for Reconstruction
ers that international organizations in general,   and Development. Mr. Broder will serve as the
and the Bank in particular. should be more open    panel's first chairman.
in their activities.                         Alvaro Umanla Quesada. who served as minis-
Since 1991. as well, some members of the   ter of natural resoures for Costa Rica and has
Bank's executive board, in discussions on oper-   been a board member of several environmental
ations evaluation and on certain problematic   and researrch institutes, was appointed for a four-
projects, advocated the establishment of an in-   year term.
spection unit. This resulted in a proposal in Feb-  Richard Eter Bissell, who served for several
mary 1993 by four members of the Bank's   years with the United States Agency for Interna-
executive board fcr the establishmcnt of an in-   tional Development and who has taught and over-
spection unit to evaluate ongoing projects. A    seen rescarch at several American universities
management proposal was discussed by the ex-   and research institutes, was appointed for three
ecutive board in July, together with the February   years-
proposal: at that time, broad agreement was  By the end of fiscal 1994, the inspectors had
reached on the need for an inspection function.   accepted their appointments, effective August 1l
Subsequent discussion, including discussion on a   The panel is expected to open for business during
compromise proposal, led to the decision in Sep-   the first week of September.
* Enhancing those staff skills required for   new perfornance-evaluation system designed
good portfolio management Some 122 new    to recognize and reward portfolio-performance
staff in the seven skills areas identified as being    management skills.
both critical to the process and in short       * Establishing an independent inspection
supply-environment, financial sector devel-   panel for the review  of Bank-supported
opment, population and human resources, pri-   projects (see Box 4-1).
vate sector development, the social sciences of  * Opening a Public Information Center.
anthropology and sociology, procurement. and    which makes available to the public previously
public sector management-were recruited    restricted operational documents (see Box 4-2).
during fiscal year 1994.                        In July 1993. a commitment was made to un-
* Developing a new training curriculum that   dertake eighty-four actions during fiscal 1994 to
emphasizes portfolio management and related    enhance portfolio management. According to a
Bank and professional skills and introducing a    report made available to the executive board at



Improving Portfolio Management. Accountability. and Openness   75
Box 4-2. Public Access to Bank Inflrination Expands
The public's access to the World Bank's opera-   now a presumption that all these reports will be
tional information was significantly expanded in    made available to the public. The Bank- will con-
fiscal 1994 with the opening at the Bank's head-   tinue to consult with the governments concerned
quarters in Washington. D.C. of a Public Infor-   to insure that confidential information is pro-
mnation Center that responds to requests from    tected.
interested parties for a variety of documents,  * Enviromnental assessments. Public availabil-
ranging from staff appraisal reports and environ-   ity of environmental assessment reports and
mental assessments to descriptions of individual   analyses-before project appraisal-was ex-
projects under preparation.                 panded to include, with the borroweCr's consent,
Although the Bank's relationship of trust with   assessment reports and analyses for all IBRD
its borrowers rests oa the institution's ability to   projects, thus unifying Bank-wide policy on the is-
maintain the confidentiality of cerrain types of in-   sue. (Availability of environmental assessment
formation. in recent years there has been a pre-   reports of IDA projects was assured in July 1993.)
sumption in favor of disclosure. both outside and  * Summarics of cvaluation reports, prepared
within the Bank, in the absence of a compelling    by the Bank's independent Operations Evalua-
reason not to disclose. It was that presumption   tion Department, are induded in the expanded
that was expanded during the year.          list of public documents.
Information available at the center and through  * Legal opinions prepared for the executive
the ofices of the Bank in London, Paris, Tokyo,   board, access to which had been restricted under
and through other field offices includes:   the rule of confidentiality of board proceedings.
* A new project information document for all   may now be made publiclty available by decision
projects under preparation. The document pro-   of the board on a case-by-case basis.
vides substantially more information on       Interested parties can use the Internet com-
projects-and at an earlier stage-than has hith-   puter network to access project information doc-
erto been available. The availability of tbis infor-   uments and to view (and order) the tides of al
mation will allow interested parties to raise    Bank documents available cn request, as well as
substantive questions and concerns at an early   the abstracts and entire text of selected docu-
stage-                                      ments. The project information documients and
* Staff appraisal repors-once the project   environmental data sheets arc available world-
concerned has been approved by the executive    wide free of charge. Documents on a country
board. The availability of these documents is ex-   where there is a Bank field office are provided
pected to help increase participation during   free of charge at that office. Residents of a coun-
project implementation by those affected by the   try where there is no Bank field office may obtain
project.                                    documents on their own country fec of charge
* Country economic and sectorwork (CESW).  through the Public Information Center in Wash-
Although many CESW reports were being pub-   ington, D.C. All other documents carry a stan-
lished after govcrnment concurrence, there is   dard charge of $15.
the end of the past fiscal year. almost all of   dressed other sensitive issues in its project
those actions-most of them grouped within    work that were not specific to the recommen-
the areas as descnbed above-had either been    dations of the task force on portfolio manage-
completed or were at an advanced stage of   ment. Following a comprehensive review of
completion by June 30. 1994.                   the Bank's resettlement practices. resettlement
The report cautioned, however. that the    policies were further refined.' In addition, a re-
steps tak-en over the past year were only the    port on the Bank's experience with governance
beginning of what will be a continual. evolu-   issues was issued (see Box 4-3). These two
tionary process and that specific goals of the    studies provided a candid assessmcnt of the is-
program of actions will only be realized over   sues and a framework for improvements in
time.                                          Bank strategies for dealing with them. Steps
According to the report. the greatest chal-   such as these are an integral part of the Bank's
lenges for the future include fully integrating    efforts to improve participation in project prep-
effective and efficient participatory practices    aration and project management and in the
into the Bank's work, altering and simplifying    overall way that the Bank does business.
Bank procedures in order to shift attention to   The most visible impact thus far of these ef-
obtaining more results in the field, and getting    forts, particularly project restructurings and
the organizational signals and incentives right   closing or cancellation of loans for poorly per-
in order to truly establish a "culture of implie-   forming projects. has been to prevent a slide in
mentation" in the institution.
During the past year. the Bank also ad-   "4For details. see page 44.



76   World Bank Operafflons Rscal Year 1994
Box 4-3. The World Bank's Experience with Governnce
The Bank's interest in governance-defined by    Bank's activities in the new areas are expandingp
the BankJ as the manner in which power is exer-   the bulk of the Bank's governance work wil con-
cised in the management of acountry's economic   tinue to be public sector managemenL
and social resources for development-derives    Public sector management work, mainly tech-
from its concern for the sustainability of the pro-    nical in character, addresses the processes and
grams and projects it helps to finance.       machinery of public sector performance, not nec-
[f sustainable development is to occur, a pre-   essarily its causes. This suggests that the Bank's
dictable and transparent framework of rules and    future governance agenda should be developed at
institutions for the conduct of private and publie   two levels: first, through more determined at-
business must exisL Governance of borrowing    tempts to foster local ownership of reform pro-
countries is relevant to the Bank's work because,    grams. and second, through encouragement of
in its absence. much of what the institution seeks   institutions of civil society so that they can grow
to achieve through its lending is at risk.    and, in turn, seek greater accountability from
A 1992 report to the executive directors on gov-    goventments in the economic sphere.
ernance descibed some of the activities the Bank  The new procedures that have been intrduced
was supporting in the area of governance in the    to improve project preparation and portfolio man-
form ofstudies, technical assistance, and its lend-    agement are likely to have a strong positive in-
ing operations. ln the intervening two years, ac-   fluence on the Bank's work on governance. Thus:
cording to a follow-up report.' the Bank has    * icreasedemphasiswillbeplacedonthesys-
moved rapidly and firto support borrowing coun-   temic problems of prcject implementation. many
tries in strengthening the governance underpin-    of which are governance related. through the
ning of their development efforts, and it has been    country-portfolio performance-review process;
able to do so within the framework of the eco-  * the Bank's new disclosure policy provides an
nomic and social dimensions of governance per-   excellent opportunity to make much more trans-
missible under the Bank's Articles of Agreement    parent to the outside world how the Bank ap-
Much of the governance work in which the    proaches complex situations in borrowing
Bank is engaged comprises traditional public sec-   countries.
tor management categories such as civil service  In addition, the country-assistance strategy di-
reform, public expenditure management, and    alogue, one of the prin'ary vehicles for reviewing
public enterprise rform. This is a reflection that   the Bank's lending strategy in a given country,
these categories are central to how power is ex-    can provide a forum for frank evaluation of fac-
ercised and that, in these areas, there is a sub-   tors, including governance issues, that constrain
stantial agenda for rehabilitation, modernization,   the effectivencss of development assistance.
and change. At the same time, the Bank has ex-
tended its governance activities to entirely new
areas of support under the rubrics of accountabil-   'Wodd Bank. 1994. Govemance: The Wodd Bank's Er-
ity, rnle of law, ard transparency. While the  ptdence. Washington. D.C.
overall portfolio performance.5 Specifically,    tic expectations about the extent to which
the latest annual report on portfolio perform-    project-development objectives would be
ance-for fiscal year 1993-revealed that the    achieved. (See Box 4-4 for a discussion of the
overall health of the Bank's portfolio-based    rating systems used to indicate project effec-
on overall status ratings-was relatively stable   tiveness.)
between fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Since
peaking at over 20 percent in fiscal 1991, the    sBy the end of fiscal 1993. the latest date for which data are
percentage of problem projects has fullen to 18   avaable.restruauring of 104 pnrocts had beencompleted
percent in fiscal years 1992 and 1993P            or was under way. while rcsterucng of thirty-six others
The report also found that the percentage of    wss being planned. Seventy-even problem proetsft were
problem  prjects basd on deveopment-  cosed or canceled in fiscal 1993 as compared with thirty-
problem  projects based on dcvelopmnent-          cight projects in rhscl year 1992.he project rcstructurings
objectives ratings increased marginally, from     and closingslcanellations havc had a positive ffect on the
12 percent in fiscal 1992 to 13 percent in fiscal  age structure of problem projects. with the greatest im-
1993- The slight increase did not necessarily     provcmentinthproportionofprjects that hd been ated
as being problematic for two consecutive years. They have
reflect a real deterioration in development per-  alsohelpedto increase thedisburseicntratio inthe Bank's
formance of the Bank's portfolio. however.        portfolio in mwst operatioTn regions.
Rather, it reflected efforts by the Bank's six    'Excluding countries that were in nonaccrual status andlor
operational regions. within the limnitations of   suffcred serious dvil conflict in fiscal 1993. the pcrcentage
of probkm projccts declined from more than 18 percent in
the current rating methodology, to base           fiscal 1991 to 16 percent in fiscal 1992 and 15 percent in
development-objective ratings on more realis-    fiscal 1993.



Improving Portfolio Management. Accountability, and Openness   77
Box 4-4. Inreasing the Reliability or Rating Project Effectiveness
Projects are rated on a four-point scale to deter-  In principle, progrcss should be assessed using
mine the extent to which project-development ob-   the same cost/benefit or cost-effectiveness crite-
jectives (1DOs) are expected to be met and to   ria that are applied at project appraisal or at com-
determine their overall status (OS). Projects are   pletion. If costs were not a constraint, this would
rated on a four-point scale, with a I representing   involve repeating periodically during project im-
the best rating and a 4 the worst. A DO rating of   plementation the original cost/benefit or cost-
1, for instance, means that all project develop-   effectiveness analysis done at appraisal with
ment objectives are expected to be substantially   revised or updated data or estimates. As a prac-
achieved. while a 4 rating means that major ob-   tical and less costly alternative. however, the
jectives will probably not bc achieved, and the    portfolio management task force recommended
project appears to be no longerjustified. An OS    that progress toward expected development re-
rating of t means no significant problems, while a    sults be monitored based on the evolution of a
4 rating indicates the existence of majorproblems    limited number of variables ("performance indi-
that are not being adequately addressed.    cators") that have been identified in the risk/
Although DO ratings are supposed to be re-   sensitivity analysis at appraisal as critical to
flected in the OS ratings, a recent analysis of the    achieving the expected project development r-
divergence between Annual Report on Portfolio   sults. This requires substantial improvements in
Perfrinnance (ARPP) and project completion rn-    risk/sensitivity analysis and performance-
portfperfornancc audit report ratings for a sam-   indicator monitoring.
ple of more than 1,000 projects completed in the  As part of the action plan to improve portfolio
1980s concluded that OS ratings seemed to be    management, work is proceeding on developing
dominated by short-term concerns about imiple-   guidance to staff on riskfsensitivity analysis and
mentation, while DO ratings reflected longer-   perfonnance indicators. Based on this work, re-
term optimism that objectives would be achieved    vision of the project-rating methodology and
once imnplementation problems were resolved.   project-perfonnance rating system was initiated
Neither rating, therefore, was judged as being ri-    in June 1994. The major revision entails, among
liable in measuring the development effectiveness   other things, the -option of a dual rating systen
of projects in the sample. As a result, Bank staff   thatwouldgive separate overall ratings to the im-
were required, forthe purposcs ofthe mostrecent   plementation status of a project and to its devel-
ARPP, to pay greater attention to the quality of   opment effectiveness (thus. DO ratings would no
DO ratings. In addition. any significant gap in as-   longer be subsumed as part of the OS ratings);
sessments based on OS and DO was to be ex-   greater attention to risks in the new DO ratings;
plained.                                    greater use of perormance indicators to measure
The greater attention of staff to the DO ratings    development effectiveness; and the adoption of
in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance    guidelines for ax-post evaluation of development
for fiscal 1993 helped to impmve the reliability of   results of completed projects and for the evalua-
those ratings. However, key to further and sub-   tion of development results of ongoing projects.
stantial improvement in their reliability are the    Full implementation of these improvements will
precise definition of the expected development   realistically take a few years given the sharp de-
results foreach projectandbettermeans forgaug-   parture from current practices that is entailed and
ing progress toward these results during the loan   the large number of projects in the Bank's port-
disbursemcent or implementation period,     folio-
Beyond the immediate effects of portfolio   risks associated with Bank lending to borrow-
clean-up, however, a definitive turnaround in   ers that are at an early and difficult stage of
overall performance in the next few years is not   transition to a market economy, or of economic
assured. Against the ongoing efforts to improve    reform and adjustment, are also significant. As
the management of portfolio performance must   experience shows, country economic and insti-
be reckoned the implementation risks inherent   tutional factors have ultimately a considerable
in the ambitious and complex developrnent   effect in determining the development outcome
agenda of the Bank and its borrowers. The    of projects.



78
5 N                                       .- : -    _  ,- fQ
a-   eZ'  '   *     s s -
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '_~~    >
*                   4*i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
__,_-~~~~~~~~~~ Cd /                                      "P
w ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                            t
A sandv lane benearki poplar trees is rite main roadwayfor conreving goods tomrarkcet in this part of Ckzinese
Turkesran.



79
Section Five
1994 Regional Perspectives
Africa
The year 1993, on the whole, was a difficult    better, as their GDF rose by 2.8 percent: the
one for the countries of the Africa region, as    countries comp.sing the CFA Zone, however.
gross domestic product (GDP). excluding    saw their economies contract for a third con-
South Africa. grew by just 1.4 percent. Al-    secutive year.' A positive development in 1993
though this represents an improvement over
1992. it is nevertheless disappointing. consid-
ering the region's high raze of population         'Thc SPA for low-income. debt-distressed sub-Saharan Af-
growth and the level needed for development.         rcan countries provides quick-disbursing balance-of-
paymnentsassitance to rwentymnine eligible countries (as of
As in previous years. the countries implement-    the end of June 1994) in support of reforn prognws de-
ing major reforms, and therefore benefiting          veloped in conjunction with the Bank and the International
from the Special Progran  of Assistance (SPA).       Monetlry Fund (IMF).
saw their aggregate output increase by 2.1 per-    2 The countries are B3enin. Burkina Faso. Cancroon. Cet-
saw    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.tral African Republic. Chad. Comoros, Congo. Cote
cent, or more than the average for the region.'      d'lvoire. Gabon. Mali. Mauritania. Niger. Senegal. and
The sixteen core (or steady) reformers did still     Tago.
Tabl 5-1. Africa: 1992 Population and Per Capita GMN  of Countries that Borrowed
during Fiscal Years 1992-94
Per capita                                       Per capita
Population'    GNPb                              Populabiot     GNP"
Country                   (millions)   (US dolars)  Country                 (minions)   (US dollars)
Angolae                      9.7           -      Madagascar                  12.4         230
Benin                        5.0          410     Malawvi                      9.1         210
Burkina Faso                 9.5          300     Mali                         9.0         310
Burundi                      5.8          210     Mauritania                   2.1         530
Camneroon                   12.2          820     Mauritius                    1.1        2,700
Cape Verdc                   0.4          8SO     Mozambique                  16.5          60
Central African Republic     3.2          410     Niger                        8.2         280
Chad                         6.0          220     Nigeria                    101.9         320
Comoros                      0.5          510     Rwanda                       7.3         250
Congo                        2.4        1,030     Sio Tomd and Principe        V l         360
C6te d'lvoire               12.9          670     Senegal                      7.8         780
Equatorial Guinea            0.4          330     Seychelles                   O t        5.460
Ethiopia                    54.8          ltO     Sierra Leone                 4.4          170
Gabon                         1.2       4,450     Sudan"                      265
Gambia, The                  1.0          370     Tanzania                    25.9          110
Ghana                       15.8          450     Togo                         3.9         390
Guinea                       6.1          510      Uganda                     17.5         170
Guinea-Bissat                1.0          220     Zaired                      39.8          -
Kenya                       25.7          310     Zambia"                      8.3          -
Lesotho                      19           590     Zimbabwe                    IOA          570
Norm Te 1992 estimates of GNP per capita presented above are from th "World Development Indicators' section of
World Devetlopment Report 1994.
- Not available.
a. Estimates for mid 1992.
b. World Bank Artas methodology. 1990-92 base period.
c. Estimated as lower-middle-incme (S676-52695).
d. Estimated as low-income (SG75 or Icss).



80   1994 Reglonol Perspectives
was that, on average, the low-income countries  The political transition sweeping the conti-
performed better than the middle-income one.,   nent has resulted in increasing multiparty de-
although neither group recorded an increase in    mocracies; whereas there were just six
per capita terms.                             democracies a few years ago. the number had
Some of the highest growth rates were   reached twenty-nine by the end of June 1994.
achieved by those countries, such as Lesotho,   The transition, however, has not been easy,
Malawi, Mozambique, and Zambia that were    without cost, or uniformly smooth. Where
recovering from the severe drought of 1991-92.   transition govemments are in place. power
The rather quick reco; -ry of these and other   sharing has proven difficult to achieve, and op
countries from the effects of the drought is tes-   posing groups still vie for power in many
timony to the. relative resilience of their econ-   places. On the economic front, the transition
omies and to the effectiveness of collaboration    has sometimes disrupted production and com-
among their public administrations, donors,   merce, affected the mobilization and allocation
and nongovemmental organizations (NGOs).   of resources. and diverted attention away from
The improvement in weather conditions was    needed policy reforms. Yet the transition con-
not generalized, however. Drought persisted in   tinues nearly everywhere.
some areas, posing a serious threat in parts of  There were sharp contrasts on the African
Ethiopia and Kenya, and the countries of the    scene in 1993194. The installation of democrat-
western Sahel experienced poor rainfalL In ad-   ically elected governments in Malawi and
dition, in these and other countries growth was    South Africa stand in sharp contrast to the
held backl by political transition, a high debt   mass killings in Rwanda. There were a variety
burden (despite debt forgiveness and resched-   of outcomes in the economic sphere, too, due
ulings), a deterioration in the terns of trade,   to the contradictory forces at play not just
and weak policy implementation.               across countries, but within them and even
Table 5-2. Lending to Borrowers in Africa, by Sector, 1985-94
(nmilons of US doaUns fiscal yarm)
Annual
avemage.
Sector                             19S5-9     1990     1991      1992     1993    1994
Agriculture                          533.9    997.4    504.9    707A4    318.3    152.6
Energy
Oi and gas                          20.6       -      300.0    48.5      2.4    186.2
Power                              113.9    230.0    155.0      86.0    356.0     90.0
Environment                            -         -        -        -        -        2.6
Human Resources
Education                          122.8    350.7    265.9    402.9    417.4    325.5
Population, health, and nutrition   75.7    232.7    432.8    100.3    131.2    161.6
Social sector                        -         -        -        -        -        -
Industry and Flnance
Industry                           124.6    180.1      11.0    200.0     83.5     29.6
Finance                            2413      193.6    138.8    619.9    25F23    400.1
Infrastrcture and Urban Development
Tclecommunications                  50.0    225.0      12.8      -       89.1      -
Transportation                     339.4    543.6   309.5    242.8    483.0    515.0
Urban development                  177.2    360.4    98.3    233.8       61.2    111IA
Water supply and sewerage          102.9    257.2    256.0    297.4      67.2     74.1
Mining and Other Extractive           31.5       -      21.0      6.0       -        -
Multisector                          504.0    285.6    861.0    895.0    434.2    711.0
Public Sector Management              81.0     76.6     27.2    133.6    1215      48.2
Tourism                                 _        _        _      _          _      -
Totat                               2,5iS.0   3,932.9  3,394.2  3,973.6  27817.3  2,807.9
Of which: IBRD                     909.3   1.147.0   662.9    738.4    47.0    127.7
IDA                     1,609.7   2,785.9  2.731.3  3,235.2  2.770.3  2.680.0
Number of opcrations                  80       86       77       77       75       60
Nort: Details may not add to totals beamuse of rounding.
_Zero.



A-rIca  81
~~_                   ~~-s-  --       .        -
ticW1i S
i.0i                        -   -.
-r~ ~                                    *_-; -      lb v
_s_~~     ~~   -                api   --  
. ,,    F  _           -       g               | iX          ,~~~~fl-.   -
Tanzanian women fishing in the Rufiji river delfa. 77te Bank is preparing long-term projections on Afnico's
coastalfishing.
within sectors. Some countries (such as The  Despite this panoply of variations, the events
Gambia, Sierra Leone. and Zimbabwe). where   of the past twelve months have some common
the implementation of reform programs is on   elements that providecencouraging signs for the
track, nonetheless experienced low GDDP   future. Despite delays and costs in terms of
growth rates due to the deterioration of their  lives and physical assets, the democratization
terms of trade, weather conditions, the linger-   process is moving ahead. Despite economic
ing effects of the 1991-92 drought, or the dis-   and political hardships, reform programs have
ruptions caused by rebel activity and political   survived in most countries and have even been
transition. In contrast, other countries (such as   strcngthened in some. Scveral countries im-
Equatorial Guinea and Sudan. for examp[e),   proved their performance in the course of the
where reform programs were lac!ing or off-   past year. and the members of the CPA Zone
track, registered growth of 6 percent to 7 per-   have taken an historic. bold step to improve
cent, helped by oil exports or favorable   their competitiveness. While mucl.. remains to
agricultural conditions. In yet other countries.   be done, more countries are emba.ked on re-
results were uneven, with agricultural growth   form programs and face better prospects than
coinciding with a decline in industrial produc-   compared with a year ago.
tion and services. or a decline in overall
exports accompanied nevertheless by an ex-   Varying Policies, Varying PerrormSnce
pansion of nontraditional exports. Contrasts  Another common thread of Africa's experi-
also marked the implementation of policies.   ence. despite the contrasts noted. is that Afri-
While the countries of the CFA Zone as a group   can countries that have sustained adjustment
failed to take the necessary measures to restore   policies generally have performed better than
their competitiveness in 1993, many of them    those countries that have not. This observa-
implemented significant structural reforms in  tion. made in a recently released staff study
the fiscal, financial, trade, and other areas. In   that covered the adjustment experience in sub-
several of the good performers, the improve-   Saharan Africa from 1981 through 1991 (see
ments that took place were still inadequate.   Box 5-1). is complemented by comparing the
however: savings rates, for example. remained   more recent experience of a country where pol-
too low to support rapid. sustained growth. and   icy reform has been seriously interrupted (Ni-
social conditions continued unsatisfactory.  geria) with a country that strayed from. but



82   1994 Regional Perspectives
Box S-1. Implementation of Economic Reform: Overview and Seven Case Studies 
T!'c encouraging news from sub-Saharan Africa is   PoLcy adjustments were undertaken to establish
that countries that have persisted in implementing    market-deterrnined exchange rates: improve rev-
economic reforms have begun to see payoffs. A    enue mobilization, while reallocating or reducing
recent World Bank report' has traced the effects   government expenditures, especially investment;
of policy reforms during 1981-91 in a group of   liberalize domestic prices (especially in agricul-
twenty-nine countries. Of this group, the six with   ture), trade and tariff regimes, and agricultural
the greatest success in eliminating macroeco-    marketing; introduce nondistortionary interest
nomic imbalances enjoyed the strongest resur-   rates and strengthen financial sector regulation;
gence in economic performance, experiencing a    enhance the efficiency of public enterprises and
median increase of almost 2 percentage points in   labor markets: and improve the coverage and
the growth rate of GDP per person. The increase    quality of social services.
in their industrial and export growth rates was  The case studies highlight several factors that
e"en more strikit.;. Agricultural growth also ac-   could explain the diverse economic outcomes in
celerated in the countries that taxed their farmers   the region. The ability tO persist with the
less. By contrast, countries that did not improve    fundamentals-macroeconomic stability, price
their policies saw median incomes decline by 2    and market liberalization, and adequate social
percent a year-                              sector allocations-separates the successes from
Seven case studies completed by the Africa ie-   the failures. Ghana, Kenya, and Tanzania are ex-
gional Office of the World Bank-from Burundi,   amples where a fairly good track record in these
C6te d'lvoire, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria. Senegal.   areas was beginning to be established by the late
a. d Tanzania-reinforce this finding, whic ex-   1980s. However. even where there is some
plaining in greater detail the interaction between    progress on the fundamentals, the lack of action
initial conditions. external developments, and so-   on other fronts-notably the financial sector and
cial and political choices in implementing eco-   public enterprise and civil service rrform-has
nomic reforms.2 The primacy of sound    pmven costly. Most policy reversals have been
macroeconomic policies and stability for sustain-    caused by the inability to move forward in a co-
ing economic development, responding effec-    ordinated manner in the core reform areas or the
tively to domestic and external shocks, and    inability or unwillingness to maintain the initial
sending credible signals to the private sector are    momentum of such reforms.
clearly shown in the case studies.
Broadly speaking, the economic reform pro-   IWorld BaL 1994.    en  Africa: Reforns,Re-
grams in all seven countries addressed the prob-    suits and the Road Ahead. New YorLc Oxford Uni-
ilems of high budgetary and balance-of-payments    vew,sy Prss.'
deficits, distortions in markets for goods and ser-   2 Husain, Ishrat and Rashid F;ruqee. eds. 1994. A.uw-
vices and factors of production. suppiessed pri-    ment in Afdra: Lessons fron Country Case Stadfes.
vp.te sectors, and inefficient public services.  World Bank. Washington. D.C.
reembarked on. policy reform  (Kenya) and    1994 budget abolished free transactions in the
with one that has remained steadily on the re-   foreign exchange and credit markets. thereby
form path (Uganda).                             removing the remaining core pillars of the
Nigeria went through a tumultuous period in   structural adjustment program adopted in 1936.
both 1992 and 1993. The planned democratic         In 1990-92, Kenya witnessed a sharp decline
transition was protracted and, in the end, did   in all major macroeconomic performance indi-
not establish civilian rule. The process gener-   cators. However. in early 1993, the Kenya au-
ated considerable uncertainty, economic dis-   thorities signalled an interest in restarting the
ruptions. and social unrest. Budgetary control   refork.. process. and, as a result, the conditionc
deteriorated, leading to fiscal deficits, which    for strong medium-term growth in Kenya have
exceeded 10 percent of GDP. Inflation rose to   improved significantly. Implementation of sta-
40 percent in 1992 and 58 percent in 1993. The    bilization policies and more effective enforce-
official exchange rate was pegged below mar-    ment of financial sector regulations have
ket rates, with the spread reaching 100 percent    sharply reduced runaway inflation (falling to an
by late 1993. The external balance deteriorated    annual rate of around I  percent during the last
significantly. with reserves dwindling and ar-    quarter of 1993 after peaking at around 100 per-
rears to external creditors rising to more than    cent during the second quartsr). Important
$6 billion. or one fifth of outstanding debt.   steps towards structural reform. particularly in
Meanwhile. the economy grew by only 4.1 per-   the area of external trade. have begun to grad-
cent in 1992 and 1.9 percent in 1993. compared    ually restore domestic and intemational confi-
with an average 5 percent in the preceding six    dence in the governmcnt's commitment to
years. The economic policies announced in the    reform. With the elimination of all but a short



Afrlo   83
list of import licenses and the introduction of   reduced the capacity of governmcnts to pro-
a unified and stabilized market-deLermined    vidc basic siocial services. incrcased the inci-
exchange rate (the Kenya shilling becoming   dencc of poverty, and undermined the Zone's
fully convertibic in May 1994). the siage has   financial inslitutions. The spiral. in turn, was
been set for the private, and especially the ex-   caused by a massive loss of competitivencss
port, sector to Icad the recovery. By the end of   that resulted from a combination of the inflated
1993, monetary control had becn tightened,   cost structure existing in the mid 1980s and the
disciplinc had been reintroduced in the finan-   major external shocks suffered since then. The
cial sector, the maize market had becn fully   prices of the Zonc's major exports (coffcc, co-
liberalized, and foreign-cxchange rescrves had   coa. cotton, phosphate, uranium. and oil)
recovered to comfortable levels. These im-   dropped sharply in the second half of the 1980s,
provements facilitated the approval by the In-   causing its terms or trade to fall by 40 percent
ternational Monetary Fund (IMF) of a one-year   between 1985 and 1992. The Zone's real effec-
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility ar-  tive exchange rate (REER) appreciated by 39
rangement during the fourth quarter of 1993. as   percent over the same period. That movement
well as the successful rescheduling of external   was the result of the depreciation, since 1985,
arrears with the Paris Club in January 1994.  of the United States dollar and the large depre-
Uganda has gone quite far in creating a free   ciatiun achieved by many competing develop-
enterprise economy. At the same time, the gov-   ing countries of their own REERs through
ernr.-ent has stabilized the economy through    nominal devaluations in the context of eco-
tight fiscal and monetary programs. Inflation   nomic reforms. The internal adjustment pro-
was reuced to around 4 percent in 1993, down   grams and structural reforms pursued by
from 45 pe_ccnt in 1992 and 240 percent in   various CFA countries in the period 1986-93
1987, the year in which the present adjustment   were able neither to correct this massive loss of
program was initiated. Uganda has in place a   competitiveness nor halt the ongoing down-
program of comprehensive structural reforms   ward spiral.
covering the civil service, public enterprises,  Recession and financial crisis in the CFA
and major financial institutions, and is under-   Zone continued throughout 1993. Moreover. as
taking a large reduction in military forces to   it became increasingly clear that internal ad-
release resources for priority spending pro-  justment programs were not working, external
grams. These reforms have had a positive ef-  financing for them dried up. For 1993 as a
fect on the economy: Real GDP growth is   whole, per capita real income declined by 435
estimated to have reached 6 percent in 1993,   percent. exports fell by 3.9 percent in volume.
enabling per capita consumption to rise by   and investment further contracted to 13.8 per-
about 2.5 percent. The lowered inflation has   cent of GDP.
contributed to a stable exchange rate and re-  Against this backdrop. in early January 1994
newed confidence in the country's currency. In   the heads of state of the CFA countries met in
addition, the downward slide in coffee produc-   Dakar to discuss ways to end the economic cri-
tion, the country's main export, has been   sis. The meeting resulted in the historic deci-
halted. There are also signs that nontraditional   sion to change the parity of the CFA franc from
exports are growing rapidly: that the public's   50 per French franc. a level at which it had
willingness to hold financial assets in the form   been fixed in 1948, to 100 per French franc.3 At
of savings and time dcposiss. which have in-   the Dakar meeting. another important. al-
creased fourfold in the past two years. is in-   though less publicized. step was taken: the
creasing: that the inflow of private capital has   signing of a treaty transforming the West Afri-
been substantial: and that investment. includ-   can Monetary Union into a full economic
ing rehabilitation and reconstruction work on   union. A common approach to the implemen-
properties of returning entrepreneurs. is on the   tation of economic reforms that were needed to
rise. All of these gains. cogether with the in-   accompany the parity change was also dis-
creased focus of government spending on basic   cussed.
social services. are expected to have a positive  The decisions made at the Dakar meeting
impact on poverty reduction.               have provided a unique opportunity to restart
the stalled structural adjustment process in the
Improved Competitiveness                   fourteen countries. restore growth. and reduce
The countries of the CFA Zone have faced    poverty. Indeed, since January. nearly all
major economic. financial, and social difficul-   countries have adopted reform programs that
ties since 1986. These difficulties were caused
by a downward deflation'ry spiral of produc-
tion, incomes. and expenditures that cut aver-   * The parity %X Conwros' currency was changed to 75 pr
age real per capita income by 40 percent.    French ranc.



84  1994 Reglonal Perspectives
are being supponed by the World Bank and the  The World Bank, together with the IMF. the
IMF. All postdevaluation programs give prior-   European Commission for the European
ity to restraining inflation to ensure that the   Union, and the African Development Bank. is
nominal parity change actually leads to a sub-   cosponsoring an initiative to facilitate private
stantial depreciation of the real exchange rate.  investment, trade, and payments in Eastern
Hence, public sector wage increases have gen-   and Southern Africa and in the Indian Ocean
eraily been limited to 10 percent to 15 percent   countries-the cross-border initiative (CBI).
to prevent a wage-price spiral. To allow some  The CB[ is based on a new integration con-
time for urban wage earners to adjust to the   cept that promotes mobility of factors, goods,
higher cost or imported items, increases in the   and services across national boundaries among
prices of selected imported goods (petroleum    participating countries while minimizing
products, rice, sugar, edible oils, medicines,   chances for diversion of trade and investment.
and school books, for instance) are being cur-  It involves voluntary participation by countries
tailed through temporary tax reductions and di-  that are ready to accelerate the reform effort,
rect subsidies. Fiscal reform-reduction of   and is based on the principle of reciprocity
deficits to sustainable levels, tax reform, and   among the participating countries. The pro-
restructuring of expenditures-also figures   posed reform measures are in the areas of trade
prominently as an objective of the reform pro-   liberalization, liberalization of the exchange
grams. Priority. however, has been given to   system. deregulation of cross-border invest-
protecting vulnerable groups and relaunching   ment, strengthening of financial intermnedia-
poverty-reduction programs by incrcasin-, pub-   tion, and the movement of goods and persons
lic expenditures on basic education andi health   among the participating countries. The reform
services. developing and implementing social   agenda supported under the CBI has been
finds targeted at the poorest groups. and ex-   developed through a two-year process of dis-
panding labor-intensive public works pro-   cussion by public and private sector represen-
grams.                                   tatives of the participating countries. as well
as consultations with regional institutions.
Regional Cooperation Efforts                The CBI was endorsed by thirteen countries
The recent events in the CFA Zone aqd the   at a meeting in Kampala, Uganda, in August
new challenges facing South Africa and its   1993. To date, nine countries (Kenya, Malawi.
neighbors call for strengthened regional coop-   Mauritius. Namibia. Rwanda. Swaziland.
eration. Various actions have already been   Uganda. Zambia. and Zimbabwe) have con-
taken in this direction, and others are under   firmed their intention to participate and have
consideration. In the CFA Zone, the member   established mechanisms to prepare countrv-
countries of the new West African Economic   specific proposals for implementing the CBI-
and Monetary Union (UEMOA) and the Cen-   supported reform agenda.
tral African Munetary Union have decided to    In addition, the heads of state of Kenya.
form economic-as well as monetary-links.   Tanzania. and Uganda (the members of the
In Western Africa, the signing of the treaty for   former East African Community) recently met
the new union by the six member states was   in Arusha, Tanzania. to reaffirm their commit-
accompanied by further efforts to render bud-   ment to strengthened cooperation. There is a
getary policies coherent. harmonize tariffs and   consensus that this cooperation should be
indirect taxes, and develop a regional financial   based on practical improvements in investment
market. In Central Africa. the six member   incentives and tax regimes. and streamlined
states of the Central African Customs and Eco-   border formalities.
nomic Union have taken advantage of their in-
creased competitiveness to accelerate the   The Bank's Assistance Strategy
implementation of a new common external tar-  The priorities for the Bank in Africa are
if. Nontariff barriers have been removed, and   poverty reduction through environmentally
rates have been lowered.                  sustainable development: human resources
These efforts are being supported by the   development-not just through lending but
Bank. together with the IMF, the European   also by defining frameworLs for effective inter-
Union, and other interested donors.       ventions by governments and donors, as in a
At the level of the entire CFA Zone, progress   recent staff study on health in Africa (see Box
was made during the fiscal year in the areas of   5-2); providing an cxceptional response, al-
social-security provision and collection of sta-   ready in progress, to the situation and events in
tistics. With a view to providing a positive en-   the CFA Zone: working with major partners to
vironment for private sector-led growth, a   fulfill the objectives and the priorities of the
treaty has been signed that will put into place a   SPA: and "getting results in the field" through
common framework for business law.        the improved quality of projects and their



Africa   85
Box S-2. Toward Detter Health in Afrir
Health issues are assuming an increasingly im-   referral hospitals. Third. the report underscored
portant place in the Bank's assistance strategy in   the need for more efficient allocation and man-
Africa. Reflecting this trend. a major sector study    agement of public financial and human resources
was compieted in 1993 in closc coopcration with   devoted to health improvement, and for their pro-
the World Health Organisation. the United Na-   gressive reallocation away rrom less cost-
tions Children's Fund, and other partners. The    effective interventions (largely provided through
study, Better Health In Africa. aimed at building   tertiary facilities) to a basic package. It found sub-
consensus on future health strategies in Africa   stantial room for increases in technical efficien-
among the many stakeholders.' It round that   cy.'
while dramatic improvements had taken place   The report concluded that substantial health
since independence, most African countries   improvement in Africa is feasible. despite the se-
lagged well behind other developing countries in   vere financial constraints facing most African
health status. At fifty-one years in 1991. life ex-   countries. The will to reform and to provide a
pectancy at birth in Africa is eleven years less   limited package of quality, low-cost, and highly
than in the low-income countries as a group, and    cost-effective health services to the vast majority
Africa's infant mortality rate, at over 100 deaths    of the population is central to success. The study
per 1,000 live births, is about one third higher on   found that higher-income and middle-income Af-
average than for the universe of low-income    rican countries, in due course, should be able to
countries. New health problems, such as AIDS,   finance a basic package of health services for
and new strains of well-known discases such as   their people from public and nongovernmental re-
malaria, threaten the important health gains made    sources, without substantial external support.
in Africa over the past generation.          However, the low-income countries are likely to
The report discussed "best practices" for   need donor assistance in support of health for an
health improvement by African governments and    extended period. These countries now spend
their external partners in three areas. First, as did   about $8 per capita annually on health from all
World Development Report 1993-Investing in   sources-public. nongovernmental. and
Health, the report emphasized the importance of   external-compared with the indicative estimate
strengthening the capacity of houscholds and    for the basic package in the study of about 513.
communities to recognize and respond to health    The transition from the current to the indicative
problems. This requires health and devdopment   level of spending will have to be implemented
strategies that increase the access of the poor to   flexibly. on a country-by-country basis, with pro-
income and opportunity, pay special attention to   visions put in place for interim targets to be met
female education and literacy, provide for com-   along the way.
munity monitoring and management of health ser-
vices, and fun-ish information to the public and    'World Bank. 1994. Beter Heafth in Africa. Washing-
health-care providers on health conditions and    tso. D.C.
services. Second, the report called for reform of    Forexampte, poordr
btttion. and prcscniptiao practices are responsible, to-
African health-care systems. and especially for  gethe w  other nctorsbran effective consumption
maling a basic package of cost-effective health    of only about S12 on drugs for every SlIO in public
services available to Africans near where they  spending on phnnaceutkals in many African coun-
live and work through health centers and first-    ries.
implementation. especially through strong    vironmental program for the region. This pro-
capacity-building efforts.                     gram has been addressed primarily through the
Poverty reduction rhrotJgh environmen:alIv    elaboration and implementation of national en-
sustainable development. The need and ur-   vironmental action plans (NEAPs) and through
gency to reduce poverty in the region is evi-   the Bank's lending program. NEAPs-which
dent; however, progress has been limited in    provide a basis for the Bank's dialogue with
Africa as a whole. despite success in some    borrowers on environmental issues, describe a
countries. Achieving a high rate of economic   country's major environmental problems and
growth. combined with a pattern of growth fa-   concerns, and formulate actions to address
voring increases in incomes in the poorest sec-   whatever problems are identified-have sys-
tions of society. is central to the Bank's   tematically paid attention to arresting land deg-
poverty-reduction strategy. The Bank's two-    radatiL'n through better natural resource
pronged strategy. as elaborated in World De-    management. The Bank's regional portfolio in-
velopment Report 1990. acts as a guide to the    cludes more than $500 million in environmental
institution's economic and sector work. as well   projects. some of which can be directly linked
as to its lending operations.                  to the NEAP process. The Bank has also been
Fighting land degradation and desertification    involved in the preparation of a new interna-
have been key e&jectives of the Bank in its en-   tional convention on desertification that is cur-



86   1994 Regional Perspectives
Table 5-3. World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Africa,
1990-94
(millions or US dollars: rLsa yeas)
Nigeria        Cate d'lvoirc      Sudan           Total rcgion
start            slart            start            start
Item               1994  199$  199094 1994 1994 1990-94 1994 1994 1990-94  1994  1994  1990-94
UndLsbursed
commitments     2,461              423              181             13.118
Commitments               -   1,954       376  1.365      -      98         2,808  16,953
Gross disbursements      353  1,646       306  1.073       48   378         3.195  14.002
Repayments                348  1,402      183   769        3    49          1.116  4.678
Net disbursements          5    243       123   304       45   329          2.079  9,324
Interest and charges     270  1,325       149   767        4    36            869  4 "1
Netttansfer             -265 -1,082       -26  -463       41   293          1,211  5.103
NoTE: Disbursements frmm the IDA Special Fund are included. Te countries shown in the table awe those with the largest
amounts or public or publidy guaranteed long-tenn debL Details may not add to totas because of roinding.
-Zero.
rently being negotiated and is prepared to be a    pledges have increased, and some disburse-
partner in its implementation when it enters    ments will be accelerated in response to these
into effect,                                   needs. In addition to mobilizing additional re-
Assisrance to CFA countries. Since the par-   sources. SPA donors have stressed the need to
ity change and as of June 30. 1994. IDA has    pursue greater selectivity in allocating resources
provided approximately $1 billion in quick-   to ensure that countries with strong refornn pro-
disbursing credits and adjustment operations to    grams are adequately funded and that scarce
the CFA countries. For the short term, the    resources are used efficiently. As of June 30.
Bank-supported postdevaluation programs in-    1994. the donor community had pledged
dlude. in addition to steps to limit the price in-   $6.6 billion in quick-disbursing balance-of-
creases of essectial goods, (a) a draw-down    payments assistance. and further efforts are
of reserve stocks and additional imports of es-   continuing to close the remaining gap.
sential foodstuffs to counter speculative com-   The priorities and objectives of SPA-3 are
mercial practices, (b) increased budgetary    achieving higher growth rates and alleviating
appropriations for education and health. and    poverty: supplementing policy-reform  pro-
(c) steps to assure adequate supplies of essen-   grams with more investment in human re-
tial drugs in public health facilities and of low-   sources and infrastructure; raising the level of
cost generic drugs in privatc pharmacies. For   domestic savings and private investment: plac-
the longer term, expenditures on labor-   ing greater emphasis on ensuring that the ben-
intensive civil works programs. rural infra-   efits of growth are directed at reducing
structure. education, and health will be    poverty: and strengthening local economic
increased. as will special pregrams (nutrition in    management and institutional capacity. The
particular) that target the poorest groups and    SPA's primary objective continues to be to as-
that will be implemented by NGOs and com-   sist countries to strengthen their policy-reform
munity associations-                           programs and structural reform efforts. How-
SPA-ptase three. The third phase of the    ever. to accelerate growth. reduce poverty.
Special Program  of Assistance (SPA-3).   and realize the full benefits of policy reforms.
launched by the program's donors in October   the efficiency ofpublic investment financing by
1993. will cover the three catendar years 1994-   donors, wnich still accounts for about 80 per-
96. Since the CPA Zone countries instituted a    cent of total donor financing. must be improved
parity change in their currency and launched    substantially. Discussion is continuing on sec-
comprehensive economic reforms. two addi-   torwide approachcs to donor financing aimed
tional countries, Comoros and Cote d'lvoire.   at improving aid coordination and effective-
have met SPA eligibilitv requirements. bringing    ness. The SPA's role would be to serve as a
the total of eligible countries to twenty-nine,   catalyst to encourage donor support for such
The estimated requirements of donor adjust-   integrated sector programs. to monitor out-
ment assistance for these countries is $12 billion    comes. and promote the harmonization of do-
over the three-year period. The SPA donors    nor procedures. Mobilization of resources and
have met twice since the parity change to dis-   coordination of specific sector-investment pro-
cuss financing requirements. Total donor   grams will continue at the country !cvel



Africa   87
through mechanisms such as consultative   the amount of loan cancellations expected to
groups. roundtables. and country-based local   result from completed or planned restructur-
aid-coordination groups.                   ings of problem projects totaled about $500 mil-
Project quialiiy and itmpltenmtration. Despite  lion.
the difficulties faced by the region, portfolio  The need for capacity building in Africa cuts
performance was relatively stable in 1993. Dif-  across all sectors. and. in all cases the need is
ferences among countries were caused. in part,   urgent and acute. The challenge involves both
by variation in macroeconomic performance.   making greater use of existing local capacity
Overall, adjusting countries had a better record   and helping to build such capacity where it
of project performance than the nonadjusting   does not exist. The Bank's approach recog-
ones. and operations in the particularly difficult   nizes that capacity-building issues need to be
areas of agriculture and adjustment lending im-   addressed at an early stage in the project cycle
proved their implementation records. The most   and that the effort cannot succeed without im-
serious general constraints to effective imple-   proving the performance and productivity of
mentation are uncertain borrower ownership   the civil service. This concern Las led the Bank
and limited local capacity. To increase owner-  to appoint a Capacity Building Committee to
ship. the Bank is making a concerted effort to   make recommendations on the most effective
involve stakeholders (governments. beneficia-   ways to advance toward this goal. The com-
ries the private sector) in project preparation    mittee's recommendations (which highlight
and implementation. The use of participatory   "best practices" to follow and cover a broad
approaches-beneficiary assessments. partici-  spectrum. from ESW and lending to the role of
patory rural assessments, and participatory   resident missions) have been approved and are
workshops-is steadily increasing. In many   being carried out.
cases. stakeholders participate not just in  Capacity building-as well as dialogue with
project design and preparation but also in eco-   the intended beneficiaries of development-
nomic and sector work (ESW). Several actions   continued to be the focus of the Bank's work in
are under way to improve project quality at en-   South Africa during the past year. In that coun-
try such as preparation of "letters of sector   try, the Bank's informal work has dealt with
policy." avoiding unnecessary complexity in  the entire political spectrum. including nongov-
project -design (through participatory ap-   emmental organizations. the private sector.
proaches to project preparation and grcater in-   teachers. and trade unions. Dozens of South
volvement by resident missions in the process.   Africans have been trained in economics, and
for example). testing new or complex ap-   relationships have been built up with many of
proaches in small pilot operations. and identi-  the country's economic and political actors. In
fying project-monitoring indicators that reflect   April 1994. the Bank opened up a resident mis-
both output and impact. In fiscal 1993. the most   sion. following a request from the multiparty
recent year for which numbers are available.   South African transitional council.



88   1994 Reglonal Perspectves
East Asia and Pacific
Strong economic growth across almost all   monetary, and basic market reforms (see Box
countries dominated the development pic-   5-3). Indonesia-the region's second-largest
ture in the East Asia and Pacific region in cal-   economy-maintained a steady 6.6 percent
endar year 1993. In addition to its remarkable   growth rate, with significant increases in indus-
poverty reduction in recent years. East Asia   trial production and exports; a large debt bur-
and Pacific again led all regions-developing    den and environmental issues loomed as
and developed-in posting a 9.2 percent   challenges to the quality and sustainability of
growth rate, up slightly from 8.7 percent in   its growth. Other countries with real rates of
1992. Export growth continued to be substan-   growth in GDP in excess of 5 percent included
tial. registering an increase similar to 1992's  the Republic of Korea. the Lao People's Dem-
13.6 percent. China. the world's largest devel-   ocratic Republic (Lao PDR). Malaysia. Thai-
oping economy, recorded 13.4 percent growth   land. and Viet Nam. A recent study concluded
in gross domestic product (GDP), despite con-   that if economic growth had been randomly
cns during 1993 about overheating the econ-   distributed among countries, there would have
omy. China also continued to implement fiscal.   been one chance in 10.000 that it would be so
concentrated in a single region (sec Box 5-4).
A remarkable feature of the region's cco-
Table 54. East Asia and Pacific: 1992       nomic performance in the past year was the
Populafion and Per Capita GNP of            relative evenness of steady high growth rates.
Countries that Borrowed during Fiscal      The Philippines was the only major country in
Years 1992-94                               which the regional average lagged significantly.
but recent events (successful completion of the
Ppt   aNpita    stand-by arrangement with the IMF. comple-
Country              (miHions) (US $tanars)   tion of a Brady-type of debt agreement. reforms
that encourage greatcr domestic and foreign
c,atnbodia1 9.1                    -        competition, and efforts to increase the level
china                 1,;62.2      0        and eficiency of public investment in infra-
FIni                     0 8    2.010       structure) gave reason for cautious optimism
Indonesia               1843     670       that better economic times may be ahead.
Kora, Republicof        43.7    6,790        The small Pacific island economies wit-
Lao Pcople's De4ocratic                     nessed a mixed performance in 1993. Fiji. the
Republic               84.6     250       largest of these. recorded a real GDP growth
Malaysia                 18.6    2.790      rate ofonly 1.7 percent. compared with 3.1 per-
Maldives                 0.2      S         cent in the previous year. as a result of the
MongoliaN                2.3       -        effects of a severe cyclone that struck in Jan-
Papua New Guinea                 790        uary 1993. The Solomon lslands a6o recorded
Philippines             64.3      710       a sharp drop in GDP growth to about 2.5
Solomon Islands          0.3      710       percent-as co,pared with 8.2 percent in
TVailand                58.0     1 8        1992-recIecting a Iowdown in logging activity
Viet Nam                69.3       -        and a decli,c in frning. Signs of recovery were
Western Samnoa           0.2      940 ,, seen elsewhere. however: Recovering from the
Nare: The 1992 estinmas of GNP per capita pcsentcd    effects of two major cyclones. the Western Sa-
above are firom the 'Wortd Development Indicators" src-    moan economy grew by about 5 percent: Van-
tion of World Devdepmnes Reporn 1994.      uatu also saw a slight upturn during the year.
- Not available.                              Economic growth in some of the islands ben-
a. Estimates for mid 1992.                  cfited from a pick-up in tourism following the
b. World Bank Atlas methodology. 1990-92 basc pefOd.    recovery from recessionary conditions in ma-
c. Estimated as low income (S675 or less).  jor source mark-cts. The Pacific island econo-
d. E%timaccd as lowcr*midlc income (S676. 34._695).  mies also continmud to bcnefit from substantial



East Asia and Pacific   89
Box 5-3. China: Conutinuig Reform and Development
During the past year. China's economy. in many   lar, fixed asset investment and industrial output
ways. cperienced the enviablic difficulties that   grew at a more rcasonable pace than in the first
arise from significant economic success and bold   half of the fiscal year. and month-on-month infla-
market reforms. In fiscal 1994. China's tax reve-   tion appeared to be subsiding. Tighter credit-
nues increased, as did deposits of individuals in   one of the most effective monetary instnuments
the banking system. The nominal exchange rate   available to the cential government-caused in-
remained stable aftera substantial devaluation re-   creased difficulty for SOEs, especially in the
sulting from the unification of the official and    northeast of the country and the interior. Growth
swap market rates in3anuary. Export growth was   in output of SOEs was low, even nelgative, in the
healthy. foreign dircct investment continued to   northeast and southwest in the second half of the
flow into the country in large volume, and foreign   fiscal year. raising the possibility of urban tension
exchange reserves were steady.             as the adjustment to the market progresses.
The struggle to contain inflation. however.  A Bank report recomnnends additional mea-
points to structural difficultics in the economy    sures in key areas to address structural weak-
that can no longer be ignored. Ongoing price re-   nesses in the fiscal and financial system. Provided
forms and relatively large state-owned cnterprise   this overall reform plan is properly implemented,
(SOE) deficits are the main causes of inflationary    China appears likely to be able to achieve high
pressure in China.                         and sustainable economic growth without the
Despite the sense of voladlity as the economy    benefits being dissipated in high inflation. In the
continued its strong growth, most recent indica-   coning years. however. the risk of accelerating
tors have shown a welcome improvement and, in   inflation remains high as such reforms are en-
some areas, evidence of stabilization. In particu-   acted.
Box 5-4. The East Asian iracde
A major work in fiscal 1994 was the publication of   with export push hold the most promise for other
"The East Asian Miracle Economic Growth and    developing economies." the study concluded.
Public Policy." the product of a Wodd Bank re-   Even so. it added. developing countries hoping to
search team.' The report stimulated-widespread   follow in the footsteps of East Asia should .imit
debate on the components of economic policy    policy interventions and focus instead on the fun-
that underpinned the spectacular performance of   damentals.
the high-performing East Asian countries. Signif-  The fundamentals that East Asian economies
icantly, the report found that there was lttle that   focused on included:
could be described as 'miraculous' about the  a Managing monetary and fiscal policy to en-
economic performance. even though the chances   sure low inflation and a competitive exchange
of such a concentration of growth, assuming it  rate;
were randomly distributed worldwide, were just  * Concentrating public investment in educa-
one in 10.000. 'Fundamentally sound develop-   tion on primary and secondary levels of school-
ment policy was a major ingredient in achieving   ing.
rapid growth.' the report observed. But-and it  * Fostering effective and secure financial sys-
was this finding that aroused the most active   tems to encourage savings and investment
debate-the book also noted that government in-  * Limiting protection so that domestic prices
tervention had played a role. How much of a role   are close to international prices; and
was not easy to discern, the researchers con-  * Supporting ariculwre by assisting the adop-
cluded.                                   dtion of "green revolution"' technologies. invest-
Previous Bank studies had described these pol-  ing in rurl infrastructure, and limiting taxation on
icy interventions-suppressirg interest rates or   agricultural goods.
promoting favored industries, for example-as  A summary of the book is available in English.
always harnful to growth. The study said that   French, Japanese, and Spanish.
.export push." a combination of sound funda-
mentals and selective interventions. had been   IWod Bank. 1993.  The East Askm Miracle: Econontc
crucial to East Asia's success. Of the nainy in-    Growth antd Public Policy. A Word Bak Poriry Re-
terventions tried in East Asia. those associated    search ReporL New Yoric Oxlord Univesity Pius.
resource flows and remittances. The combina-   exchange-rate stability and control over infla-
tion of external resource availability, open-   tion. Emerging fiscal deficits in some island
ness to trade, and generally sound fiscal and    economics need to be reduced to ensure mac-
monetary management has ensured relative    roeconomic stability. however.



90   1994 Reglonal Perspectives
The Pacific islands continue to face a unique    IDA credits, totaling $324.5 million. had been
set of development challenges: They are con-   made to Viet Nam for projects in the educa-
strained by small domestic marklets. a narrow    tion. transportation, and agriculture sectors,
resource and production base, and high unit   while one emergency rehabilitation credit, for
costs of infrastructure; they are also heavily    $62.7 million, was approved for Cambodia.
dependent on extemal trade and are vulnerabic    Both countries are among the poorest in the
to external shockts and natural disasters. De-    world, with annual per capita incomes of about
spite an almost complete absence of absolute   $200. but each, for different reasons, offered
poverty. the islands are conrronting acute en-   signs of hope for sustainable economic devel-
vironmental issues which, in some cases, will   opment.
significantly affect their long-term economic    While overall the region performed impres-
outlook. Deforestatior. in the Solomon Islands.   sively. the picture was far from unblemished.
in particular. is an issue of major economic and    and areas of concern highlighted in last year's
environmental importance to the country.   Anntal Report remained as obstacles to sus-
Papua New Guinea also faces important issues   tained development for most. if not all. coun-
of deforestation and preservation of ecological   tries of the region. In particular, serious
diversity. It has recently enjoyed rapid growth   environmental damage. aasociated with rapid
fueled bv rising mineral and new oil exports,   urbanization. inadequate regulation and plan-
but it must cope with problems of promoting    ning. and incorrect pricing of resources. con-
growth in the rest of the economy.            tinues to impose majorcosts. Land degadation
Viet Nam rejoined the Bznk's list of borm w-   and deforestation also remained as serious
ers in fiscal year 1994 after a fifteen-y *ar   threats to sustained growth. Because the poor
hiatus. and Cambodia became a first-time bor-   suffer disproportionately from the effects of en-
rower (see Box ,-5). By the end of the year.   vironmental degradation. environmental issues
Table 5-5. Lending to Borrowers in East Asia and Paciric, by Sector, 1985-94
(millions of US do6Xars fscal years)
Annual
avcrae
Sector                              198549    1990      1991     1992     1993     1994
Agriculture                          726.9    743.0  1374.7    826.7  1,089.3   1,735.4
Energy
Oil and gas                         54.0      86.0       -      100.0    225.0    266.0
Power                               533.0    813.0    275.0  1.745.9    760.0   1,048.5
Environment                             -        -        -         -      50.0    306.5
Human Resources
Education                           m.0      434.4    5920    474.1    478.9    346.6
Population, health, and nutrition   72.8        -      164.0    129.6    200.4    160.0
Social sector                                            -        _                 9 7
industry and Finance
Industry                            259.2       -     361.7     82J      250.'     40.0
Finance                             373.1     68.0    439.3       -      457.,    100.0
Infiastructure and Urban Development
Telecommunications                   7.0    391.7        -     375.0    134.0    250.0
Transporation                       726.9    497.2    323.6  1,182.5  1,132.2   1,340.0
Urban development                   249.7     86.2    SF3.1    168.0    110.0    349.0
Water supply and sewerage           77.5    349.0    177.8    275.0   -310.0        -
Mining and Other Extmrrtive           25.2       -                  -        -
Multisector                          298.0    250.0    250.0      70.0    200.0      2L7
Public Sector Management               6.1       -       62.0     17.0    173.0
Tourism                              _                                             ____
Total                               3.681A    3.7185   4,563.2  5.446.5  5.569.8  6.034.4
Of which: IBRD                    3.107.2   3,066.8  3.471.0  4,386.9  4.404.8  4.623.8
IDA                       574.2    651.7  1.092.2  1,059.6  1.165.0   1.410.6
Number of operations                  40        35       39       45       45       43
Nom Details may not add to totas beca se of reundiag.
-Zero.



East Asia aid Pocific  91
Box 5-5. Lending to Viet Nam Resumes; Is Initiated in Cambodia
After a rifteen-year hiatus, lending resumed to   support of an emergency rehabilitation project,
Viet Nam during fiscal 1994. when two credits   designed to arrest the deterioralion in basic ser-
totaling about $228 million were approved in Oc-   vices by financing priority imports.
tober 1993. One credit. for S70 million, will sup-  In addition, a policy framework paper, pre-
port a primary education project, while the    pared jointly by the government, the Bank, and
second. for $158.5 million, will support highway   the IMF. was agreed upon. The paper provides
repair. A third credit, for $96 million, was ap-   details of the country's medium-tenn adjustment
proved in January 1994; it supports a program to   and reform progrm. Over the next three years.
provide mor credit and back-up services to small  the government intends to consolidate the initial
flnners in Viet Nam. In addition to these three   restoration of macroeconomic stability. under-
investments, the Bank has been providing tech-   take a process of institutional strengthening sup-
nical assistance for the preparation of a public   ported by comprehensive technical assistance.
investment program and for improving capacity   substantially increase public investment in order
in core ministries. The assistance is expected to   to address rehabilitation and reconstruction
enable the Bank to identify further projects in pri-   needs, and initiate a process of wide-ranging
ority areas such as infrastructure. agriculture,   structural reforms aimed at enhancing savings, in-
natural resource protection. and the social sec-   vestment, and growth over the longer term,
tors.                                         In view of the legacy of war and devastation
The three credits were approved aftera support   and the recent political transition, restoring finan-
group of donor countries assisted Viet Nam in   cial stability. strengthening the eentral institu-
clearing its arrears to the IM  in October 1993.   tions of macroeconomic management, and
In advance of actual lending, the Bank had   initiating investment for rehabilitation and recon-
done a great deal of preparatory work. Analytical   struction comprise the most immediate tasks. The
work had resumed in 1989. with the result that   donor community has pledged its support for
several economic and sector reports had been    Cambodia's recovery. In March 1994. at a meet-
completed, and a solid basis for resumption of   ing of the International Comnittee on the Recon-
lending had been established.               struction of Cambodia. donors renewed that
An initial donors' group meeting for V-iet Nam,   support based on an economic report prepamd by
sponsored by the Bank and the United Nations   the Bank: Cambodia. from Rehabilitation to Re-
Development Pogranmme, was held in Paris in   construction.
November. and pledges ofS 1.8 billion in aid were  Against this background, the government has
given by multilateral and bilateral donors. It was   adopted a medium-term adjustment progamm for
agreed that, in the future, the World Bank would    which it is secking support from the IMF through
chair a consultative group meeting each year, as   a three-year arrangemcnt under the Enhanced
it does for other countries.                Structural Adjustment Facility and has begun
During the past year, the Bank extended its   preparations for a structural adjustment credit
first-ever credit to Cambodia. which joined the    and a companion technical assistance project
institution in 1970. The $62.7 million credit was in    with the World Bank.
are a major concern for the countries in the    year, which is low among developing countries
region and the Bank.                           worldwide. About 80 percent of the population
Another serious problem that has been ex-   is emerging from socialism-morc than in Cen-
posed and exacerbated by the region's high    tral and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet
growth rates is the historical inadequacy of in-    Union-while the middle-income countries of
frastructure investment relative to rapidly    Korea. Malaysia, and Thailand comprisejust S
growing demand. Reflecting this. Bank lending    percent of East Asia's people. The significance
emphasizes effective infrastructure develop-    of this is that East Asia has sustained rapid
ment across the region. with lending for tmans-   growth and far-reachinig social and economic
portation. power, and irrigation again the    reforms at relatively low income levels and
largest component of the overall program. Be-   when their economies were undergoing major
cause the region's infrastructure needs, how-    internal reforms. This augurs well and suggests
ever, are so iarge, the Bank alone cannot have    that further inroads may bc made in reducing
more than a marginal effect. The private sector   poverty and protecting the environment as the
in the countries tiLemselves and through foreign    reform process advances. underpinned by
direct investment (FD!' will have to play an    larger regional flows of trade and investment.
increasingly critical role in developing and
modernizing East Asia's infrastructure base.   Progress in Poverty Reduction
Despite recent gains, the countries of the re-  Among all regions. East Asia and Pacific
gion have an average income of about S600 a    stands out as the one that has made the most



92   1994 Regkonal Perspectives
0 fi SN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii
mmmuauumm..,- i0
*UIuA I I ,.I~Uuuii
Consciousness abot the environment has been raised in Tonga. as these murals att-. o ioe Ireigor switk which
Mke inhabitants rt to geJ rhe message across.
impressive gains in poverty reduction. as well  are the hardest to lift from poverty. even by
as being the fastest growing. Living standards   sustained economic growth. For this reason.
nave quadrupled in a generation. and health   the Bank places special emphasis on targeted
and education indicators have posted signifi-   poverty strategies in its lending program. But
cant gains. One striking feature of growth in  there is reason for confidence: Governments in
East Asia has been its evenness; it is spread   the region have shown themselves determined
across most of the population and is not con-   to invest in basic human needs. such as health
fined to a wealthy elite. Absolute poverty has   care and cducation-steps that have proven
fallen sharply in East Asia, from a third of the   central to an effective fight agnst poverty-
population in 1970 to a tenth in 1990. at a time
when the overall population was growing.' In   Obstacl  to Sustned Growth
absolute numbers. East Asia's population liv-  Despite its impressive performance. the re-
ing in absolute poverty numbered 400 million in   gion faces a nu.mber of obstacles to sustained
1970 and 180 million in 1990. Not only were 220   growth: indeed. some are so formidable that, if
million people lifted above the absolute pov-   unresonred. they could stop or even reverse the
erty mark. but over the same period, 425 mil-   progress now being made. These obstacles in-
lion people were added to the population-also   c!ude:
above the poverty leveL. The most impressive  The environment. Developing countries of
gains have been made inl Indonesia. where the   the East Asia and Pacific region have paid in-
percentage share of absolute poverty has fallen   sufficient attention to protecting and restoring
from 60 to 15 of the total populaton over the   the environment as population growth. rapid
period, and China. where it fell from 33 !o 10   urbanization, and the spread of industry have
percent. But progress was impressive alm-ost   placed sizable demands on air. water. and for-
throughout the region, with Korea and Malay-   est resources. The consequences today are
sia cutting their proportion of absolute poor   heavy. with unacceptably high pollution levels
from 23 anid 18 percent, respectively. to about   in air and water throughout much of the
5 percent in each country.
Th.ough the gains have been outstanding. the
task ahead is even more challenging. The re-   4Absolutc poveny is defined here as income insufficient to
maining poor live in remote. barren areas and  mainWain a subsistence intake of 1)0 calories a day.



East Asia and Pacific   93
Table 5-6. World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in East Asia
and Pacific, 1990-94
(millions or US dollrs: raiscal years)
China           Indonesia        Philippines        Total region
start             start            sart               Stan
Item               1994  1994 199094 1994 1994. 1990-4 1994  1994 1997194  1994  1994 1990-94
Undisbursed
commitmenls      7.720             4.785            1.988              16,554
Commitments             3,160 11.028     1.490  7.215        478 3,414         6.124  25.422
Gross disbursements     1,926  7,111      1.170  5.909       480 2.623         4.209  18.888
Repayments                282   984        833  3.332        343  1.580        2.669  11.308
Net disbursements       1.644  6.127       336  2.576        137  1.043        1.540  7,581
Intcrest and charges      365  1,379       882  4.038        346  1.570        2.043  9.S77
NCL transfcr            1,279  4,748     -546 -1,462        -209  -527         -503 -1,996
NOam Disbursements frnm the IDA Special Fund are included. The counuries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add io total becausc of munding.
region-particularly in major urban centers.   rains. from which national and regional policy
Urgent steps are necessary to reverse this    on atmospheric emissien can be drawn: and
trend and to foster a more efficient and 'envi-   . increased investment in environmental
ronment friendly" growth in the years ahead.    projects throughout the region.
Addressing the region's environmental needs       Infrasrructtre bottlenecks. Rapid economnic
will cost an estimated $24 billion each year by    expansion has outstripped the capacity of ex-
the year 2000. The Bank has prepared environ-   isting infrastructure and has created serious im-
mental assessments for most countries in East   pediments to further investment and rapid
Asia and is seeking to focus borrowers' atten-   growth. Greater electricity-generation capac-
dion on the long-term benefits of sound envi-   ity. sufficient telecommunications facilities.
ronmental policies. Environmental screening    better urban and intercity roads. and efficient
of projects. and full impact assessment and mit-   ports are high on the list of East Asia's infra-
igation of many. is now standard Bank proce-    structure needs. Bank estimates suggest that.
dure. Reflecting this priority, the Bank    in the 1980s. infrastructure investment in East
emphasizes sustainable environmental prac-    Asia may have lagged necessary levels by
tices in all its leniding. In calendar year 1993-    much as 2 percent to 3 percent of GDP. To
the most recent period for which complete    make up this shortfall. the region will need an
figures are available-the Bank lent $3.6 billion    estimated S1.5 trillion in infrastructure invest-
dollars for projects in the region with specific    ment during the 1990s. Fifty-eight percent
environmental components. The Bank was    of Bank lending to East Asia in fiscal 1994 was
also involved in broad-ranging policy analysis,   for infrastructure. with most going to transpor-
through the publication of "Toward an Envi-   tation ($1,340 million)- Other infrastructure
ronmental Strategy for Asia.'"5 and with other   commitments included power generation
initiatives including:                          (S1.049 million). irrigation (S491 million). urban
* the Asia Water Resources Initiative. advo-    development (S349 million) and telecommuni-
cating a comprehensive. river basin approach    cations ($250 million). (See Table 5-5 for de-
to water policy:                                tails.) The size of the investment shortfall
* the Asian biodiversity strategy. involving    demands that the private sector play an cx-
consultation with nongovernmental organiza-    panding role in infrastructure financing: in
tions and specific project preparation in the re-   turn. governments of the region will need to
gion in concert with the Global Environment   establish the appropriate regulatory and legal
Facility:                                       frameworks to attract and secure such invest-
s the Metropolitan Environment Improve-    ment.
ment Program. a coordinated approach to ur-       Financial sector reform. Increased llows of
ban environmental management in cities such    trade and FDI to East Asia arc placing straiits
as Beijing. Jakarta. and Manila:                on existing financial structures. indicating the
* A-nalytical work on deforestation in the
vast area covered by Cambodia. the Lao PDR.   'Brandon. C., and R. Ramankuty 1993- 'Toward an En-
and Viet Nam;                                    vironmental Strategy ror Asia 'World Bank Discausion
* "Rains Asia." a computer analysis of acid    Paper No. 224. Washington. D.C.



94   1994 Regional Perspectives
need for more flexible and responsive Finance   nomic development worldwide. Cumulative
systems. The trend is already under way, but it   Bank lending to the rcgion is morc than $70
needs to move more quickly and to incorporate   billion, with lending to agriculture and rural de-
building new or stronger banking systems and   velopment ($16.3 billion), transportation ($I 3.2
money markets. The Bank is working with its   billion), and power ($11.8 billion) the major cat-
member countries, at a range of levels. to up-   egories.
grade and liberalize finance markets and insti-  Fiscal vear 1994. Today. the Bank deals with
tutions.                                   twenty countries in East Asia and Pacific. lend-
State enterprise reform. Large. inefficient   ing $6 billion in fiscal year 1994. China ($3.1
state enterprises obstruct and delay economic   billion). Indonesia ($1.5 billion), and the Phil-
growth and the transition to a more efficient   ippines ($478 million) were the biggest regional
market economy. Progress is being made in   borrowers. Roughly $1.4 billion of the lending
this highly sensitive reform area across much   program was in the form of IDA crecits. After
of the region. particularly in China and Vict   a fifteen-year hiatus. lending resumed to Viet
Nam. Malaysia is pursuing an ambitious priva-   Nam; in Cambodia, the Bank extended its first-
tization program. The Bank is encotiraging bor-   ever credit during the past year.
rowing countries to create a competitive     The Bank's mandate in all its borrowing
environment for business growth and to take   member countries is to support broad-based
steps to expose state enterprises to the disci-  economic development and the reduction of
pline of the market. At the same time. how-   poverty. Lending. economic and sector work.
ever, steps must be taken to provide alternative   and associated technical assistance is aimed at
employment, or some social safety net. for   realizing this goal. Central to the Bank's over-
those displaced by such reforms.           all approach, however, is the reduction of pov-
Trade imbalances. East Asia is currently   erty. In fiscal 1994. twelve projects, valued at
running substantial trade surpluses with other   $1,035 million had specific poverty reduction
trading partners, which is neither desirable or   components and were included in the program
sustainable. Although regional levels of protec-   of targeted interventions; that amount was
tion are currently relatively high, reductions in   up S391 million from last year's total (eight
tariff levels (on a nondiscriminatory basis),   projects worth $644 million). During the year.
now under way. are projected to increase pen-   one poverty assessment was completed. bring-
etration of foreign products and lower sur-  ing to six the cumulative total fat the region.
pluses while boosting the region's growth and
welfare. With the region expected to provid:   Supervision-Next Steps
about half the incremental growth in world   The Bank. in accordance with the recom-
trade to the year 2000, this is a priority reform    mendations of the 1992 report of the Task
area. The Bank is advocating that East Asia   Force on Portfolio Management, is undertak-
become a more active participant in global   ing more regular supervision of all projects to
trade discussions. reflecting the region's rise as   monitor the quality and effectiveness of imple-
a major importer and exporter.             mentation. In addition. reviews are conducted
Institution btuilding and strengthtening. The   annually or biennially of country project per-
need for expanding competent management   formancc generally. Management of projects
across most areas of development is emnerging   has become computerized. and field offices are
as a major issue in East Asia. Whether in pol-   now taking a more active role in supervising
lution monitoring and control. design and im-   projects. The region expects to supervise some
plementation of monetary and fiscal policies.   300 projects a year over the next three years.
or traffic-management planning and regulation.  Though portfolio performance is strong. ex-
effective institutions are essential. The Bank is  tra attention is needed because newer and less
assisting countries in a range of fields to estab-   experienced member countries-in terms of
lish or strengthen such institutions.      economic and institutional strength-mak-e up
Bank Activities in the Region     a growing share of the portfolio. The complex-
Bank Activities in the Region              ity of projects also is increasing. with some
Past lending. The World Bank has been ac-   having many components (flood control.
tively involved in lending and policy guidance   power generation. irrigation, and complete re-
in the region since it made its first loans to   settlement packages, for exampic). and some
Thailand (for railways. ports. and irrigation) in   applying to several provinces in a single coun-
1950. Japan was also an early borrower and   try.
now stands as a monument to successful eco-



South Asia  95
South Asia
South Asia is a region full of contrasts. On    percent of South Asian men and women, re-
the one hand, its economic potential is consid-   spectively, were literate-and low school en-
erable. During the 1980s. the rate of economic   roliments and high drop-outs. Ncarly half of
growth in the region was 5.2 percent a year.   the region's children do not complete primary
compared with 3.9 percent among all low-   school.
income countries (excluding India and China).
Its growth was exceeded-albeit signiricantly    The Challenges of Development
so-only by that in East Asia and Pacific.      The Gulf crisis of 1990-91, coupled with po-
Progress in reducing fertility led to annual   litical upheavals in the former Soviet Union
growth. in per capita terms. of nearly 3 percent   (which sharply diminished traditional export
during a period often referred to as the "lost   markets). exposed major weaknesses in the
decade" in many other regions of the world.    development path that countries of the region
On the other hand. South Asia is also char-   took in the 1980s. This was demonstrated for
acterized by widespread poverty and unaccept-   India in 1991, when, as a result of the Gulf
ably low standards of living for many of its   crisis-induced oil-price shock, a severe
people. While accounting for a fifth of the    balance-of-payments crisis ensued, and gold
world's population, South Asia is also home to   reserves had to be pledged to avoid a disrup-
nearly half the world's poor (estimated at 390   tion in debt servicing. Pakistan has thus far
million persons).' Regional per capita income    avoided the same sort of crisis, but its reserve
currently averages $310, and, with the notable   position needs strengthening, and the govern-
exception of Sri Lanka and several states in    ment has been slow to bring chronic fiscal def-
India, social indicators are poor. Life expect-  ;cits under control. Other countries remain
ancy is lower than in any other region except   heavily dependent on concessional funding and
Africa; of every ten children born, at least one    arc thus vulnerable to external shocks from an
is expected to die before the age of one. Prob-   environment in which aggregate aid is unlikely
lems of poor health and high rates of malnu-   to expand and competition for scarce funds is
trition are compounded by low levels of   becoming increasingly strong.
literacy-as of 1990. only 45 percent and 31    While rates of growth in the 1980s were high.
they were not sustainable. Progress at reducing
poverty was most rapid in the early 1980s. but
the pace moderated in the latter part of the de-
Table 5-7. South Asia 1992 Population       ade. in large part the result of the worldwidc
and Per Capita GNP "f Countries that        slowdown in economic growth. The fundamen-
Borrowed durmg FLsc  Years 1992-94          tal challenge facing South Asia today is how to
-lt-r capita    continue the high economic performance of the
EbpuhtioD        GNF"apD    previous decade with concomitant rapid and
Country         (millions)    (US dolUT)    sustained reductions in poverty and improve-
ments in social indicators. A sustainable
Bangladesh        114.4           220       growth path for the 1990s must be based on
Bnhutn              I.S           180       small fiscal deficits. a sustainable balance-of-
India   883.6         310       ~~~payments outlook, and improved environmen-
Nepal              19.9           170       tal quality. Countries of the region-be they
Paistan           119.3           420       small. island economies like the Maldives or
Sri Lanka          17.4           540semi-industrial giants like India-face three
NorE: The 1992 estimes of GNP per capita presented
above are from the "Wodd Development Indicators" sec-
tion of World Developmen: Report 1994.      'As estimated from Chen. Shaohua. Guarv Dart. and Mar-
a. Estimates for mid 1992.                   tin Ravallion. "is Poverty Increasing in the Developing
b. World BSnk Atlas methodology, 1990-92 base period.  World?" (Policy Research Working Paper numbnr 1146.
June 1993).



96   1994 Regional PerspectIes-
major challenges in ensuring continued    pace has been uneven, typically reflecting
progress through the 1990s:                   broader political economy issues and electoml
First, to deepen economic reforms in order   cycles. Recent progress is most evident in fis-
to attain high growth and greater economic re-   cal developments and tax reforms, external
silience;                                     policies, and financial reforms.
Second, to broaden and furtheraccelerate ef-  In the public sector, the primary focus is on
forts to reduce poverty and improve living    structural reforms to underpin medium-term
conditions-as East Asia has shown can be   fiscal adjustment, particularly tax reform and
done; and                       -expenditure reduction and restructuring. In the
Third, to better manage the environment to   area of tax reform, India has made significant
ensure sustainable development.               progress in removing several tax-induced dis-
tortions. Measures set out in the fiscal year
Deepenig Reforms                         -    1995 budget continue tax-reform progress by
Two themes have characterized until re-   broadening the tax base and reducing the dis-
cently the development approach of most   persion of tax rates. Excise taxes were stream-
South Asian economies: a strong economic   lined, with many being shifted from specific to
role for the state and relatively inward-looking    ad valorem rates. Taxes on corporate income,
development strategies. The broad consensus   as well as on capital gains, were also reduced.
in development thinking-borne by the suc-   Progress continued in Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri
cesses and failures of past decades-is that   Lsnka towards moving to a fuill-fledged value-
countries do better, both in generating growth   added tax, and Pakistan made important
and reducing poverty, with more market-   progress in broadening the tax base by intro-
friendly policies and outward-looking strate-   ducing an agricultural income and wealth tax.
gies. While there is general agreement in South  On the fiscal side, Pakistan's political tran-
Asia about the direction of needed reforms, the    sition in 1993 contnbuted to a deterioration in
Tabk 5-8. Lending to Borrowers in South Asia, by Sector, 198544--
(.illionof US dollars; fiscl years).
.                                                                                            .~~~~~~~~Au
avenge.
Sea"                               :19-       190      1991     [992     1993     1994
Agriculture                          943.9=  668.0    773.0    346.1-  48D.7    387.8
Energy
Ol landgas  .                      287.2-      -      7352    330.0       -       -
Power                              982.0   1,012.3  - 200.0    730.0    960.0    230.0
Environment                      -14.7
Human Resources       -
Education-                         133.1   -580.8    307.1    145.6    339.0    220.0
Population, health, and nutrition   65.6    192-      3885    377.5    827.0    233.1
-Socialsector                         -                  -      -        .   -      -
Industry and Finance
Industry                           202.0-    300.0    528.0      5-       -      203.
Finance                            3448: 375.0    123.5         28.4    -6.8 
Infrastructure and Urbai Development
.Telecommunicadons                   93.4 -      -       7.0    55.0       -        -
Transportation  --:    ,:,','     5310.9    1915    178.9    306.0    120.0'   491.3
Urban developmnt                   248.1-                                        246.0
Water supply and sewerage        A  97.4     89.9    306.6            - 208.2
-MiningandOtherExtractive            117.6       -        -        -       12.0 
,Multisector, ,107.9                           94.4      7.0    6552    403.5       -
FPublic Secor Management               -         -        -      25.0       -      296.8'
Tourism    -                                             .-
Total                              3,939.3   3,504.4 - 3,604.8  2,998.8  3,416.2; '2,370.0
O-f wichI                         2,465.4 -1,725.5  1,540.1  1,348.0  1,145.0- --:474.0
IDA                    1,473.8  -1,778.9  2064.7  1,650.8  2,2.2 '1896.0'
Numberof opeaons                   -32   - 26           30       24       26   ,-19I
Nam Details may not add.to totals because of rounding.
-Zero.



South AsM. 97
A Nepatese woman sorts recently thtreshed gratn in a remote village whzere mechanized labor has yet to make
lnroadrs
the fiscal deficit, which rose to a record high    1994, however, the government announced
9.5 percent of gross domestic product (GDP).'  that it intended to privatize fift-one industries
The caretaker government moved rapidly to   by the end of the calendar year. Over the past
strengthen the fiscal position, control mone-   year, Nepal either privatized or liquidated
tary expansion, and reduce the balance-of-   seven (out of fifty-one) enterprises earmarked
payments deficit. The rupee was devalued, and   for divestiture.
measures were enacted to contain spending     Developing a leaner and more efficient pub-
and increase revenue- FLscal adjustment has   lic sector is only one part of the reform agenda.
continued under Pakistan's new government,   A dynamic private sector has an important
leading to a notable reduction in the fiscal def-   complementary role to play to ensure sus-
icit in the second half of 1993. Fiscal stability   tained, high-quality growth. While notable ad-
continued in Bangladesh- Although buoyant   vances have been made in recent years, much
revenues helped increase public savings from 2    still remains to be done to improve the envi-
percent to 2.4 percent of GDP, the expected   ronment for private sector development in the
increase in public investment lagged as a result  region. In. addition to continued public enter-
of continuing delays in project implementation-   prise reform and privatization, infastructure
In Sri Lanka, a reduction in current expendi-   must be expanded and measures undertaken to
tures led to positive public savings for the fist   improve the overall business .environment
time in many years. In India, however, fiscal   through deregulation, further reductions in
slippage occurred: The central govermment   trade bamers, exchange-rate reforms, and fi-
deficit widened from 5.6 percent of GDP in   nancial sector development and integration-
1992 to more than 7 percent in 1993. Forty per-   aU key enabling factors necessary for private
cent of the increment in the deficit can be at-   sector development.
tributed to shortfalls on the revenue side, while  Countries of the region continued to pursue
60.percent was the result of an overshooting of   more outward-looking strategies through trade
spending targets.                           liberalization and exchange-rate reforns. In
Progress was slow in the area of privatization
and public enterprise reform. While the priva-
7 IW fSW  ear oftheregion's countries vary widely.
tization of small and medium-scale enterpnses    Year-specfic numbers in this section. therefoe, wiyre,
continued bisidy in Sri Lanka, Pakistan's po-    spond roughly,;uuIess otherwise indicated. to calendar.
litical transition slowed the process. In April    ycars.



South Asoa  99
Table 5-9. World Bank Cs, Disurmut, and Nit Transfer itn
South Ads, 19-94.--
CWM   or US drs; fscal yeasw
start       ~~~start        stat            start
Item              1994.1994  1094 1594 19941 90-94 19    9 1990-  1994  1994 1990-4-
UndisWxed
commkcer.ts    10-3,4  2,793                    1,23           .15,891
Comaitineuts            929 9,788    742 3,238         597 2021-        2,370 16,134
Grass disbursemens     1,716 9,793      54-  2312   -360   721         -2,768 15,214
Rqeaymnts       -       963 3,S70.      194  685-       33  -110 .      1.211  4,448
Netdisburs_ents         753. 6,2        345 2,127      327  1,612       1,558 10,836
Intest and cmus         838 3,833       215  A7S        40   174        1,114  4,980
Net tansfer.            -85 2,390       130 l,252      287 1,438       .44  5,856
* NOTE: Didzursaus ftu te IDA Special Pl a ided. The eo.es shown A hn.ie whUe at those wbt the beues.
- no . . dpo.dic orpblylysnannrd hy_-u dd*b Ded5j my no,M to feb   . becusowdbe, ,,-.
findinghas becnincreasedforendemic disease-   poverty-reducing economic growth. This
controlprograms.InSriLanka,stepshave been   growth, superimposed on a rapidly growing
taken to improve the augeting of income-   and urbanizing populaion, inevitably wil put.
trser and social safety net programs.       more pressure on air, water, and land- re-
The role of local governments isepandi    sources. Problems are already apparent in
and a more hospitable environment in which   terms of increased levels of air and water pol-
nongovemmental organizations (NGOs) can   lWtion, contamination by toxic wastes, soil em-
operate in the region is being ceated. Bang-   sion, land degradation, and deforestation. In
ladesh is in the midst of implementing a new    addition, the envionment is adversely affected
local goverment structure, with the objective   in many countries by the presence of incentive
of increasing grassroots- participation in. the   rcgimes that encourage intensive use of higb-
design and implementation of programs to de-   polluting energy, inefficient use osurfice wa-
velop hulman resources and local iv&a=c-   ter and groundwater, underinvestment in
tu. District elections have been held; sub-   sanitation and waste manageme, and, We-
district development coordnating mmittee    quate potetion of soils and forest
established; and the entie local government  Protectng the natual resoures of the region
structure is cxpected to be in placc by mid   is a complex and longterm proce. Govem-
1994. Governmens' attitudes towards NGOs   mnes face difficult policy dilemmas as they
have become far more positive over the past   search for ways to acceate growth and en-
severd years, and the region is host to some of   sure environmental sustainability. Some
the world's best-ktuwn NGO initiatives, such   pogress has been made in recent-years in ad-
as Bangladesh's Grameen Bank, the Bang-   dressing these issues. National eavirmental
ladesh Riral Advanement Committee, India's   action plans (NEAPs) were completed and
Self-Employed Women's Association, the Aga   openly debated in Sri Lanka in 1991, and in
KXan Rmal Support Projcct  DP) i Paid-   Ind, Nepal, and Pakistan m 1993. These doc-
stan, and Sri Lanka's Sarvodaya as wet as a   uments, together with follow-up workshops in
wide rang of lesser-know  but equally mpres-   each country, provide a base for pric zijng
sive NGO efforts. These diverse- progams   donor assistance. Parid to the NEAP pro-
have grat potental for helping to reduce pov-   cess, explicit steps have been taken to
erty and improve living conditions in the re-   strengthen environmental managment. For
gion. Some governments have begun to   example5 new ordinances have been passed in
replicate elements of NGO progams: For ex-   Paksn that mandate higher environmenal-
amplc, the government of Patan has recently   quality standards, decentralized responlsbiiy
initiated a National Rural Support Program    fr pollution control, and an expansion of the
(modeled after the AKRSP), which is desied   staff of national and provincial-level environ-
to promote community-level self-sufficiencY    mental institutions. In India, new nional pol-
and reduce poverty.                        icies have been adopted to combat industrial
,~w~           pollution dtrough both increased regulaitions
Ensuring                         ;tvhvmeaW  - and some fiscal incentives. In addition, in L994
South Asia's curent development stategies   the government strengthened regulations gov-
hold forth the proise of sustained. rapid. and   ewmig environmental assesmens, requing,



South Asb   99
Table S-9. World Bank Commitments, Disbursenents, and Net Transfers in
South Asia, l99O-94
(miflious of US dollaus; fiscal yeas-)
India          Pakisan        Bangdesh        TOal region
start           start           stat            star
Item              1994  1994 1990-94 1994 1994 1990-94 1994 1994 1990-94  1994  1994 1990-94
Undisbursed
commitnents    10,374            2,793          1,523          .15,891
Commitments             929 9,783       742 3,238      5 597 2,021     2,370 16,134
Gross disbursements    1,716 9,793     540 2,812   -360U 1,722         2,768 15,284
Repayments              963 3.570       194  685 -      33   110        1,211  4,448
Net disbursements      -753. 6,223      345 2,1Z7      327  1,612       1,558 10,836
Interest and charges    838 3,833       215 --875       40   174        1,114  4,980
Net transfer            -85 2,390       130. 1,252     287 1,438        .444  5,856
NoTE Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund am includeL The countries shown in the table are tbhse with the laest.-
amounts of pubic or publily guarnteed lonWterm debL Detais may not add to totals because of munding.
funding has been increased for endemic disease-   poverty-reducing economic growth. This
control programs. InSi Lanka, steps have been   growth, superimposed on a rapidly growing
taken to improve the targeting of income-   and urbanizing population, inevitably wil put
transfer and social safety net programs.    more pressure on air, water, and land re-
The role of local govermments is expanding,   sources. Problems are already apparent in
and a more hospitable environment in which   terms of increased levels of air and water pol-
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) can   lution, contamination by toxic wastes, soil ero-
operate in the region is being created. Bang-   sion, land degradation, and deforestation. In
ladesh is in the midst of implementing a new    addition, the enviroment is adversely affected
local government structure, with the objective   in many countries by the presence of incentive
of increasing grassroots participation in the   regimes that encourage intensive use of high-
design and implementation of programs to de-   polluting energy, inefficient use of surface wa-
velop human resources and local infiastruc-   ter and groundwater, underinvestment in
ire. District elections have been held; sub-   sanitation and waste management, and inade-
district development coordinating committees   quate protection of soils and forests.
established; and the entire local government  Protecting the natural resources of the region
structure is expected to be in place by mid   is a complex and long-term process. Govern-
t994. Govermnents' attitudes towards NGOs   menuts face difficult policy dilemmas as they
have become far more positive over the past   search for ways to accelerate growth and en-
several years, and the region is host to some of   sure environmental sustainability. Some
the world's best-known NGO initiatives, such   progress has been made in recent years in ad-
as Bangladesh's Grameen Bank, the Bang-   dressing these issues. National environmental
ladesh Rural Advancement Committee, India's   action plans (NEAPs) were completed and
Self-Employed Women's Association, the Aga   openly debated in Sri lanka in 1991, and in
Khan Rural Support Project (AKRSP) in Pakd-   India, Nepal, and Pakdstan in 1993. These doc-
stan, and Sri Lanka's Sarvodaya, as well as a   uments, together with follow-up workshops in
wide range of lesser-known but equally impres-   each country, provide a base for prioritizing
sive NGO efforts. These diverse programs   donor assistance. Parallel to the NEAP pro-
have great potential for helping to reduce pov-   cess, explicit steps have been taken to
erty and improve living conditions in the re-   strengthen environmental management. For
gion. Some governments have begun to   example,. new ordinances have been passed in
replicate elements of NGO programs: For ex-   Pakistan that mandate higher environmental
ample, the government of Pakistan has recently   quality standards, decentralized responsiblity.
initiated a National Rural Support Program    for pollution control, and an expansion of the
(modeled after the AKRSP), which is designed   staff of national and provincial-level environ-
to promote community-level self-sufficiency    mental institutions. In India, new national pol-
and reduce poverty.                        icies have been adopted to combat industrial
pollution through both increased regulations
Ensuring Environmental Sustainability       and some fiscal incentives; In addition, in 1994
South Asia's current development strategies   the government strengthened regulations gov-
hold forth the promise of sustained, rapid, and   erning environmental assessments, requiring,



100  1994 Regional Pespectes
among other things, broad consultation and   least for the present. The past year's lending
public participation. Many Indian states have   program had a strong focus on the poor. Five
adopted participatory approaches that utilize   operations (accounting for $741.8 million, or31
economic incentives to protect forests and pre-   percent of new lending) are included in the pro-
serve biodiversity.                      gram of targeted interventions (rTI), while one
adjustment operation (accounting for $250 mil-
The Bank's Strategy ror the Region       lion) had a poverty focus.
The direction of the Bank's lending program  During the past year, the region focused on
in fiscal 1994 and the underlying economic and   three types of portfolio-implementaticn issues
sector work were guided by the challenges fac-  in an attempt to strengthen, performance and
ing countries in South Asia--the need to pro-  improve the quality of the Bank's lending port-
mote sustained growth, reduce poverty. and   folio. First, by giving priority to reducing
improve living conditions. In line with these   project complexity and ensuring readiness for
objectives, a key focus of the economic and   implementation, the quality of new projects en-
sector work program was on the role of fiscal  tering the portfolio has been upgraded. Second,
reforms and reforms in the agriculture, infra-   actions were taken to strengthen portfolio-
structure, and human resources sectors in pro-   management practices to deal expeditiously
moting sustainable growth and reducing   with problem projects and reduce project ges-
poverty. Analysis of factors that encourage pn-   tation time. Problem projects are reviewed on a
vate sector development was also central to the   quarterly basis to ascertain the extent of
work program, and efforts were made to im-'  progress in implementing remedial measures
prove dissemination of findings both within the   and to recommend andlor endorse restructur-
region and more broadly outside.         ing as required. Gestation time is being reduced
The South Asia loan portfolio includes 242   by focusing on accelexating project start-up,
projects and commitments totaling $26.6 billion   undertaking mid term reviews of projects to
as of June 30, 1994. The portfolio consists pri-  provide for early diagnosis and corrective ac-
manly of investment loans. The principal  tions, and working to ensure that projects close
change has been in sectomal composition, as the   on time. Third, systemic implementation issues
share in lending for agriculture has gradually   are being tackled through the identification and
dropped while the share accounted for by the   adoption of measures to improve deficiencies
human resources sectors has increased (from   in project funding, procurement, and project
an average 5 percent in the period fiscal   management. Country-implementation re-
1985-89 to 19 percent in fiscal 1994).   views, sectoral supervision strategies, and vig-
Bank lending during the past year totaled   orous resident-mission support were the
$2,370 million, a decrease of $1,046 million   principal vehicles for addressing these prob-
overfiscal 1993. The decrease can be attnbuted   lems.
to two factors; first, both the Bank and gov-  Efforts to strengthen performance and im-
ermments are exercising greater care during the   prove quality of the portfolio have been
project cycle in order to achieve higher quality-   successful: Year-to-year average portfolio per-
at-entry for new projects, particularly in com-   formance indicators indicate progress in the
plex sectors dealing with sensitive issues (such   timely start-up of new operations, in decreas-
as resettlement and the environment); second,  ing the number and proportion of problem
a buildup of reserves and an improved balance-   projects, and in increasing disbursements on
of-payments situation in several countries has  investment operations as a percentage of the
made adjustment borrowing less necessary, at  fiscal year's opening undisbursed balance.



Europe and Central Asia  10i
Europe and Central Asia
The process of transition from centrally   ination, as well as by the legal and institutional
planned economic systems to market econo-   reforms taking place in all of these countries.
mies has presented difficult challenges for the. Successfully addressing these challenges will
countries of the Europe and Central Asia re-   be critical for completing the transition.
gion. The economic challenges are complicated    In general, the external environment was ad-
by the concurrent political and social tansfor-   verse during fiscal .1994. Many countries of
Central and Eastern Europe, whose economies
have been in transition for several years, were
Table 5-10. Europe and- Central Asia: :    attempting to rebound in the face of continued
T19 Population Eur    Per Capilt GNP A ia     economic slowdown by their major trading
1992     .   .-:           .   . partners in Westem Europe. Such slowdown
Countries that BOrrWewd dtunugfleal-     contributed in part to a dampening of export
Ye 199244                         .           expansion for countries such as Bulgaria, Hun-
Per capita  gary, Poland, and Romania.
i  -    - - - .-   Populaiot    <GNPb        The states of the former Soviet Union (FSU)
Countr; (millions)   (US dbll5r):   continued to face problems stemming from dis-
Albania'                34         -          solution of the union, including the breakdown
*Ar.enid    :           3.7.        780:.     of the trade-and-payments system. Trade
B3earus'. - -  .    .-. - 10.3    2,930      'wthin the republics of the FSU contracted fur-
Bulganra    :85                   1,330 .    ther during the year. Importers of energy from
Ci atia'    -           4.8                   the FSU faced further terms-of-trade deterio-
Cyprus                  0.7       9,820.      ration as energy prices from Russia and else-
Czech Republic         10.3       2,450       where moved closer to world levels. Terms of
Estoniae                1.6       2,760      trade deteriorated by more than 20 percent in
Hungary.-              103.3       2970       1993 in Belarus, the Kyrgyz Republic, and
Kazakhstan'.           17.0      .1,680       Moldova.
Kyrgyz Republic'        43          820         Country experiences have become increas-
i      -a-tvi!          2.6    -   1,930     ingly differentiated. On the-one hand, some
Iithliad                3.8    .1,310.        economies have stabilized and are on the way
Macedonia, FYR'.        2.2                   to a restoration of growth- In 1993, for in-
Moldova       -         4A :   1,3W           stance, Poland registered a second consecutive
:Poland                38.4        1,910      year of expansion, the economy surged in Al-
Roniania               22.7:       1,130      bania, and output stabilized in -Estonia, the
Russian Federationda  149.0 - . .2,510        Czech Republic, and Romania.
Slovak Repubic        ..5.3       1,930         On the other hand, some countries have yet
Slovenia                2 .- 0    ..  6,540  to make progress towards sustained stabiliza-
Turkey                 583 -  -1,980 - -    tion. Since the beginning of 1994, inflation has
Ukraine:               521 :1,820             been reduced in the Russian Federation,
Uzbckistan'    -       215-         850      largely as a result of tighter credit in the latter
NOEa The 1992 ctcs or fZP pe c:m psentd    part of 1993 that was associated with a build-up
above are fom the "World Dclopme  cators"r !   m arrears of government wage and other pay-
tion of WerfdDevepmneas Report 1994.          ments. However, maintaining this reduction
-Not available-    will require further progress on structural re-
a. Estimates ror mid l992..      -            forms, such as lower fiscal deficits consistent
b. World BankAthl nthodoogy, 1990-9 base period,  with the new role of the state and further hIt-
c. Estimated as 1wer-midd1e income (S676-S2,69M..  eralization of the .incentive regime and im-
AL Estimates for tht formter Soviet Union are subjcct to    proved allocation of credit, in particular.
awe than the usual range of uncertainty and should be  In several countries, the transition process is
rewrded as ary pfifuy.       .       -        bi  e          b f     o pv   c       inv
..    :.  >......  .: - .- ... :-z  . ;  ..... being eased by flows of private capital invest-



102   1994 Reglonal Pespectives
ment and technology from abroad: Hungary re-   mains at under 2 percent of the labor force in
ceived more than $1 billion in foreign direct   Russia, the real level or unemployment is sub-
investment (FDI) during 1993; the Czech Re-   stantially higher. In many countries, employ-
public and Poland were also major recipients;   ment and wages in declining industries are
and FDI more than doubled in 1993 compared    being maintained only through significant cred-
with 1992 in Kazakhstan, Estonia, Latvia,   its from the banking system.
Lithuania, and the Slovak Republic.           The introduction of individual currencies,
Acceleration of private sector activity ap-   which began in fiscal years 1992 and 1993,
pears to have been a key component of any    accelerated-in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia,
turnaround in growth in most countries. To-   Kazakhstan, Moldova, Turktnenistan, and
day, more -people work in the private sector   lTzbekistan, for example. Exchange-rate r-
than in the public enterprise sector in the    gimes vary across countries, ranging. from a
Czech Republic, Hungary. and Poland.        fixed exchange rate based on a currency board -
Most countries are experiencing rising un-   with full reserve backing in Estoniaand Lithua-
employment associated with the downsizing of   nia. to floating regimes in Kazakhstan, the
public sector enterprises. In Central and East- -Kyrgyz RepubLic, and Latvia.
ern Europe, open unemployment continued to    In Turkey, the many improvements in eco-
increase in 1993. In the republics of the FSU.   nomic policies and -performance during the
open unemployment has emerged more slowly.   1980s have been undermined by a steady dete-
However, "hidden unemployment" in the   rioradon in public finances in recent years and
form of short hours or unpaid leave at the en-   deteroration of the external position in 1993,
terprise level is growing. In Ukraine, for ex-   culminating in a severe currency crisis in Jan-
ample, it was estimated at 9 percent during   uary 1994. In April, the government unveiled
1993. Although registered unemployment re-   an adjustment program focusing on stabiiza-
Tabe S-1. Lending to Borrowers in Europe and Central Asia, by Sector, LS5-94-
(anls sf US dolws; fisca years)
A-1S
-  '                   ~~~~~aveag    -     - -'
Seco        '                 .    6549   -1990:   1991:  1-lXI       1993-   1994
Agriculre                         -281.4    263.0   100.0   -155.0   525.4   582m9
Energy.
Oil and gas                       56.0       -     520.0   246.0   703.0   856.11
Power                             238.0    250.0   600.0   270.0    ; -        -
Environment                          -       18.0     - 
Human Resoumces
Education                         52.8     90.2   250.0       -      67.0    59.6
Population, health, and nutriton  15.0       -       -      280.0    91.0      -
Social sector                          -    -        -        -          -   10.9
Industry and Finance
Industry                         289.4       -     100.0    60.0       -     375.0
Fimance                          2105    326.0  -710.0        -      55.0.   280.0
Itfstructure and Urban Development
Telecommunications                 14.0     -      270.0      -      300    153.0
Transportation                    200.0    445.0   300.0      -     378.0   352.0
Urban development                 30.8           -      -  200.0   285.0    171.0
Water supply and sewerage         92.4    198.0         -   32.0    1295    109.6
Mining and Other Extactive
Mu-isector                           -      600.0  1,017.0   691.1  1,245.0   566.3
Public Sector Management                                     209.2   335.0    210.0
Tourism -                                              _:                      _
Total                             1,480A4  2,190.2  3,867.0  2,1433   3,843.9-  3,726.4
Of which: IBRD                  1,480.4  2,190.2  3,867.0  2,102.2  3,7395   3,533.3.
IDA                        -        -       -       41.1   104.4   193.1
Number of opcrations                12       14      '19      14       30      42
m arcDetails may not add to toals because of tounding.
zeo,:  '    -    -   --.      



O rld C 8 n Ml   si a 10 3
: I 0  - -9'.  w-f                                                       to liv  - ..---.-  .-.I - -
~::
of d elligs bdir  rom   uel   wtb  id   adw~ boxcrs.        $28inilio~  DA -cedit,  4PProved  in
fitscai   key4 wdtrowdea rkeIgfor(Ofa,,
giovenmend kxey dituc Cotanent O currentl   nia; and nmass privatizatiOn progaser
privati~~jre and th   O i aiz eet of ur re  adopEed   in   K a4 dakh tm   Polan d   gr doam s   aerd
government : xpendita~ and transfers:Sloveni
vatizsti o, E uterPri   and                   Pri vati, on   of  the  at          e
~In gneral SetrRfr~eprivatizatwever, has not advanced ueaiiy as
cOutnuedto acei- quickly. nRU&Sia, only a few hlave been Priva-
Pivageneat ,piajion Pas Ye r~ i n~t o s al-cclel  aimed. an spite  of a  vigorotl    marketing  effoi
craze   dur n tg u   tthapat ketraheddS f           t  eeeiv so s        E tn a-a    able
scale Pivatio tin     gto sl ee h  it reetrrssi  93
scal Prvarj~0~Is essentially cOmplete in   although negotiations:aewl~dac   o
theazec  and Slovali pRpubl  Hiungary, and    some rifty others. Sale aro  wel-adv and work-
Polad. Sbsta~  prgress has been miade    ers has hen sucs ian agmers ofd work-
in Albania, the.Baltic states, the Kyrgyz Re- tiswe  rcswr aoa,eo  ntlmn
pbi,Romania, and Russia (see -BOX 5-6). -sal        ries were  favorabl or993,len
However. the proc:11:ess. isol mn t nepton i .  esowerenpewithted   e  o   rVtiain
cOuntries SUch as Bela-,Uran    nd   refo ure fbmnt           s witashntnui  n
UZbekstan    ass rivatization PrOgrams   refformO arekunderwytostremshas  acotiuedting
gained momentum: The first wave of voucher   effrd payreunder yto strngtomen acountriesth
privat~ns wascomPleted in the Czech Re-    ubro cm erilbank hasm exantril,th
publi    andSlov lca   Rusd ia   hse used was    cobeg in  rapidly, to   Over  2,000   in   Russia   in    1993,  fr e-
the Czech RePublic Rucahsue acz~              ml. other         ia bankngetos have expanded
nation of vouche-r Prilvatization and manage.    enced Cnoiao Frempeinextn
mentfmpinee buyou~on a very large scale:   th  oa Ol nu aberofbnk F as dex rep s  tbyial
'More than 8,000 medilnm.scale and lag        hsne tiandmepende anks htiasi0  of he'  baniEs
Owndoidualalenstatee-W                      ing sector was initiated in Latvia, Lithuania~
o w ned   in d ust.   enterpr~~ were     Privatized  and    Poland.   In    the    fi r
tcpin 93  n totid o l  ml service en-   tizations in the Czech RPulc n   nSova-
eprsswere Privaeed by the end of 1993.   Ritebgetcmerublic banks wereova
Investment funds participating in thkochr      ria, th  briggestc
auctions exceeded 400 in the Czech Republic     Arneo  praj  a  enpti  lc
and Slo alc a,  00in  uss a,  nd  00in    Lithua-  to    addre ss  the    le gacY o   ro uerorm ingm ~ i
loans~~~~~~~~~~



104   1994 Regional Perspecties
Box 5-. Privatization Proge  In the Rfnus Federatin.
Progress in pivatization has been the centerpiece   significantly restructured. 'Privatization has ac-
of the government's achievements in structural   ceerated, however. with-the recent removal of -
reform of the economy. The Russian privatization-  resuictions on buying and selling-of.agriculunu-l
program has privatized a larger number of enter-   land. Under a pilot program in :the, Nizhny-
prises than any other program in the world. As of   Novgorod region currently beingpromoted bythe
March 1994, more than 60 percent of the indus-   International Finance Corporation,- the private'
trir! workforce was employed in privatized enter-'  sector investment ann:of the World Bank, ma-
prises. More than 12,000 enterprises, were.  bers of collectives.can elect to.divide their faiu
privaized viavoucherauctionbyJune 1994when   and then bid: on parcels- of land.to workindivid-
voucher privatization was brought to a close.  .,ually or in partnership' with other owaersi.-By.
*This will sill. leave several thousand large and   June 30, 1994, -some six collecive famsin the
medium enterprises to be privatized through ci-.  region had been'sold:under the. procram.. In-.
ther cash auctions, investment tenders, or other   March 1994, the govenment commited itself to..
special angements.                         expanding the program .beyond -Nizhay
: Small-scale pnivatization has also kept pace,   Novgorod, and the.IFC is now moviangto hdp the-
though- with significant regional variation; cur-   country implement the expanded program;
rently more than 70 percut of all small-scale r-r   Housing privatization bgn e1992, with
tiil, catering, and service enterprises have been    more than .l milliozi-units in Moscow and-mor
privatized.    -                           than 25 percent of eligible:units nationwide hay
. Many state and collective fams have been   ing be caprivatizedto date; mosthavebeengiven-, 
iechnically prized, though they remain under   to occupants ukder a:nationwide frmework of 
collective leadership, and most have not been    providingihousingdon asgiveaway basis
the portfolios of,commercial banks-a legacy     The speed and comprehensiveness with
that has undermined the dual objectives of re-   which borrowers have embarked on a reform
structuring existing enterprises and providing    program vary greatly, as do the initial condi-
adequate credit to emerging enterpises. A de-   tions facing their economies. As a result, the
centralized approach, relying heavily on bank    Bank's assistance is tailored to match-individ-
leadership in restructuring, has been put into    ual country circumstances. However, some
place in Poland; it is being complemented by a    features of the a4justment effort have been
special support mechanism for handling large or   common across countries. The start of transi-
localy sensitive loss-makers. In Hungary, more   tion has usually taken place in the midst of
emphasis has been placed on strhing and    strong output declines. At this stage, the Bank
enforcing bankruptcy laws. Elsewhere-in Al-   has quickly provided balance-of-payments sup-
bania, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Romania, for   port to help redress such declines. These have
example-more centralized approaches have    been the so-called "rehabilitation' loans. Dur-
been introduced, in which a subset of problem-   ing fiscal year 1994, such rehabilitation opera-
atic enterprises has been isolated from the rest   tions were approved for Belarus, Kazalchstan,
of the banicng system.                        and Moldova; simiarly, an economic recovery
loan was approved for Slovakia and FYR
The Bank's Stategic Objectives                Macedonia. These operations are comple-
The Bank's operations have rapidly evolved    mented by institution-building and technical
to respond to the diverse needs of its borrowing    assistance operations essential for the early de-
countries. The former Yugoslav Republic   velopment of institutions needed in the devel-
(FYR) of Macedonia fulfilled requirements   opment of markets.
pursuant to resolutions of the Bank's executive  The Bank also has helped finance selected
board providing for succession to membership   critical infrastructure-maintenance invest-
of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia    ments to avoid deterioration of key infrastruc-
and became a member of the Bank; a financial   ture In Kazakhstan, a project was approved to
workout program was developed under the    restore public transport services, and in Esto-
leadership of the Netherlands that cleared that   nia and Russia, programs of highway rehabili-
country's arrears to the institution; and an eco-   tation are being supported. In some cases,
nomiic recovery loan to the country was ap-   output collapse has been compounded by nat-
proved in February 1994. Lending operations   ural disasters to which the Bank has re-
were also initiated in Belarus, Croatia, Kaza-   sponded, including a drought-recovery loan for
khstan, Slovenia, and Uzbekistan, as well as    Moldova in fiscal year 1993 and an earthquake-
in the newly formed Czech Republic and Slb-   rehabilitation credit for Armenia in fiscal year
.vakia.                                        1994.



Europe and Central Asa   105
Table 5-12. World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Europe
and Central Asia, 1990-94
(millions or US dollas; russ years)
Russia           Poland           Turkey         Tota region
-strt  .   -     sstart           Start            start
ltem -            1994 1994 1990-94 1994  1994 1990-94. 1994 1994 1990-4. 1994  1994 199094.
Undisbursed
commitments     457    .2,610                     3,176            9,478
Commitments           1,520 2,890        146  3,657       100  2,219   -3726 15,971
Gross disbursements     284   587        307  1,204       386  2,084       1.980  7,666
Repayments       :                       -      -         753  3,414:   1,149  6183
Net disburements. -     284 5-87         307  1,204     -367-1,330          831  1,483
Interest and chargsm    25    26          73   146        422  -2,395   - 817  4,113
Net transfer            259   561       _234  1,058 -   -789 -3,725        - 14 -2,630
Non: Disbursements front the IDA Special Fund are included. The countnes shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publidy guarnteed lon4term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.  -
Zero.
Suipport for privatizarion andfinancial sec-   while another project is providing for institu-
for development. A major focus of Bank sup-   tional strengthening and systems moderniza-
port is the privatization and restructuring of   tion for those banks. The Bank has also
public enterprises and complementary finan-   approved an onlending facility in Romania to
cial sector refonn and development. Technical   finance export and industrial investments by
assistance is being provided early in the pro-   the private sector.
cess throughout the region, particularly in the  Public enterprise reforms, including privati-
former Soviet Union. In Kazakhstan, a comr-   zation, are also important for the long-run re-
prehensive program was developed with close    duction of public sector deficits and improved
Bank collaboration, with implementation being    efficiency in Turkey. Here, the fiscal year 1994
supported under a technical assistance loan ap-   lending program supported a build up in insti-
proved in fiscal year 1994.                  tutional capacity for accelerated preparation
Bank operations were also approved during    and implementation of the government's priva-
the past year to strengthen financial infrastruc-   tization agenda; this support included a safety
ture in Belarus, Kazakhsu, and Uzbelistan.   net program that wil alleviate the impact of
For example, support has been provided for   state-owned enterprise downsizing and dives-
the modernization of the interbank payments   titure on displaced workers and their families.
system, essential for improving the trade and  Infrastructure, energy, and environment. In
payments situation. Twinning arrangements   countries where structural transformation is
are being financed to strengthen commercial   well advanced and the public finance situation
and savings banks-their success in Poland has   is stable, sectoral lending has intensified to al-
contributed to the ability of the commercial   leviate constraints to the growth of the private
banks to clean up their portfolios. After some    sector. Fiscal 1994 evidenced active support to
progress is made, Bank support has been ex-   the oil and gas, telecommunications, and trais-
panded into sector adjustment lending to    portation sectors.
deepen sectoral reforms in this area. The Bank  During the past year the Bank continued
approved an enterprise and financial sector ad-   work begun in 1992 at the request of the major
justment operation for Slovenia to further de-   indusilized countries (the G-7) to develop
velopment of the private sector. After initial   energy strategies in certain countries of the re-
balance-of-payments support to the Kyrgyz    gion with high-risk. Soviet-designed nuclear re-.
Republic in fiscal 1993, an adjustment opera-   actors. This effort has been carried out in close
tion is now focusing on privatization, reducing    collaboration with the European Bank for Re-
the financial burden stemming from large loss-   construction and Development, the European
making enterprises, and enhancing the envi-   Investment Bank, the International Energy
ronment for private sector development.   Agency, the {;-7, and the countries themselves.
Under certain circumstances, the Bank has    Regional strategies and country-specific-
also provided some financial intermediation    studies-Lithuania and Ukraine this past fiscal
lending. The Russia Enterprise Support Project   year-are being developed to. lay out an inte-
supports initiation of term lending to private   grated approach to power sector development
enterprises from a core of commercial banks,   and nuclear safety. The Bank is playing its part



106  1994 Reglionl Perspectives
in support of the necessary policy reforms and   Albania. In fiscal year 1994, a Women in De-
the financing of conventional power invest-   velopment Fund was established in the Bank's
ments, while working in a coordinated manner   Europe and Central Asia regional office to sup-
with other financing sources for nuclear safety   port work in new areas of inquiry on gender
and nuclear power.                        and transition.
National environmental actions plans      The Bank also is supporting the rationaliza-
(NEAPs) were completed in fiscal year 1994 for   tion of social sector expenditures and preven-
Belarus and Ukraine-adding to the eight com-   tion of the deterioration in key social services.
pleted earlier-and work began on NEAPs for   Work on the health sector in Russia was car-
the Kyrgyz Republic and Moldova. Based on   ried out during the year, laying the groundwork
these strategies, Bank assistance can be coor-  for the development of lending operations. Ed-
dinated with other financing sources to provide   ucation projects were approved for Albania
financing for conventional power investments   and Romania.
while supporting policy reforms critical for
cost-effective energy conservation and public   Focus on Portfolio Quality
safety. The second oil rehabilitation project in  The institutional and economic flux charac-
Russia includes a component to prevent nega-  terizing countries in transition calls for a sharp
tive environmental effects from the project and   focus on portfolio quality and effective imple-
to begin remedial actions to address past dam-   mentation. Among new member countries, im-
age. In Bulgaria, the Water Companies Re-   plementation is complicated by the lack of
structuring and Modemization Project is  familiarity with Bank procedures. Procurement
financing investments in wastewater treatment   and disbursement, in particular, present diffi-
that will reduce river pollution as well as con-   culties. The Bank is helping to develop efficient
tnrbute to the clean-up of the Danube river and   counterpart units and is establishing project ac-
the Black sea. In most of the former socialist   counts and audit procedures. Thus, in Mol-
countries, actions to establish clear rnles on en-   dova, procurement and disbursements have
vironmental liability have been included in op-   been accelerated for two projects approved in
erations supportng privatization. Four Cental   fiscal 1993. It is also continuing to prepare and
and Eastern European countries have received   translate standardized bidding documents,
assistance from the Global Environment Facil-   adapted to local conditions, to promote the re-
ity for biodiversity conservation, mainly to im-   form of public procurement regulations
prove transboundary protected areas, and   through technical assistance or Institutional
good early progress on implementation was   Development Fund grants, and to hold pro-
made during the fiscal year.              curement and disbursement seminars.
Poverty and socia sectors. To promote em-  The Bank is also quickly incorporating les-
ployment opportunities and reduce or prevent   sons tearned into project design. Efforts are be-
poverty, recovery of output and job creation   ing made to keep project design simple and
are essential. The Bank's programs, including   limit project components. Given the unprece-
support for enterprise restructuring, private   dented situation facing many borrowers in the
sector development, and deregulation of prices   region, the Bank puts a premium on its ability
and marketing channels, are critical in this re-   to be flexible and adaptable. Institutional de-
gard. At the same time, however, social pro-   velopment is an imperative, and almost all
tection must be provided for those unable to   projects have significant institutional develop-
take advantage of these opportunities. Im-   ment components.   - -
proved targeting and rationalization of social  Field offices are playing an increasing role in
services remain crucial. To facilitate targeting   effective project implementation, in addition to
of social benefits to the neediest and the devel-  facilitating policy dialogue. Two new resident
opment of policies aimed at poverty reduction.   missions were established during the past
the Bank is supporting collection of household   year-in Belarus and Kazakhstan-bringing
survey data and careful in-depth analysis. In   the total in the region to fourteen. The number
fiscal year 1994, apoverty assessment was car-   of field-office staff has grown as well, and
ried out for Poland, and poverty-assessment   higher-livel staff-including those who are lo-
work was initiated in several countries, includ-   cally recruited-are increasingly involved in
ing Russia. During fiscal 1994, an operation to   implementation assistance to the borrower, in-
improve the social safety net was approved for   cluding procurement administration.



Latin Amerlca and the Carbbean   107
Latin America and the Caribbean
The Latin America and the Caribbean pan-   erage growth that took place, during the post-
-orama in 1993 shows large disparities in growth   debt crisis years. Average growth of 3.5 per-
rates across countries, a definite downward   cent in 1993 compares favorably with the 2.8
trend in inflation in most countries, continued    percent achieved in 1992.
capital inflows, significant expansion of re-  The region's growth figures are greatly influ-
gional trade, and a growing perception that in-   enced by Brazil's performance. If Brazil were
vestment in social and economic infrastructure   excluded, the region's growth record worsened
must be increased.                         in 1993 with respect to the average of the pre-
During 1991-93, the region grew, on average,   vious two years, dropping from about 5 percent
by 3.2 percent annually, almost double the av-   to 2.8 percent; The fail was due mainly to the
poor performance of Mexico and Venezuela.
Some Central American countries, however,
Tablk 5413. Latin Aumeica ad the           continued to show strong growth: Panama (7
Caribbean: 1992 Populafion and Per         percent), Costa Rica (5.6 percent), and El Sal-
Capita GNP of Comtnes that Borrowed        vador (5 percent). In South Amenrca, Argen-
durg Fiscal Years 199294                   tina, Chile, and Colombia also experienced
growth of more than 5 percent.
--- -Per cmla  Until 1993, the Caribbean countries had ex-
Powulatiot,    GNpW
Country            (millions)   (US dolin)    penenced a- decade marked by high rates of
growth (6 percent on average). During 1993,
Argetina              33.1      6,050      however, growth slowed in some countries
Barbados               0.3      6,540      (particularly in Jamaica) and was elusive in
Belize                 0.2      2220       others-in Haiti, Suriname, and Trinidad and
Bolivia   -           - 75 -      680      Tobago, for example. Only Guyana continued
Bhl                  153-9      2770       to record a high growth rate-7 percent, fol-
Choie                 13.6      2,730      lowing 8 percent in 1992 and 6 percent in 1991.
Colombia              33A4    -  1s330     The Dominican Republic was not able to con-
Costa Rica             3.2      1,960      tinue at the fast pace of the previous year (7.5
cador                 11.0      1,070      percent), falling to 3.5 percent..
El Salvador            5.4                   The sluggishness of growth in the Caribbean
Guatemala     -        9.7        980      means that the efforts to improve competitive-
Guyana . -             0.8      - - 330    ness were not sufficient to cope with the rap-
Hoidu                  6.7     -           idly changing external scenario. The key
- Honduras            .54         58       challenges are to find ways to offset the decline
Jamica- 2.4                     I'M        in official flows and the erosion of preferential
Mexico  -85.0    ' 3.470                   trading arrangements, particularly for bananas
Nicaragua .            3.9       340       and sugar.
Panama                 2.5      2,420        The slowdown in the rate of growth in many
Paraguay -             4.5      1,380      Latin American countries appears to be mainly
Pun  - -              22.4        950 - -    cyclical. It is partly the result of the recession
Trinidad and Tobago    1.3  - 3,940        in the industrialized wodld, which reduced de-
Uruguay                3.1      3,340      mand for the region's exports. The 4.5 percent
Venezuela             20.2      2,910      fall in the region's term of trade during 1993
Nora The 1992 estimates of GNP per capita prseted    reinfrrced the effect of this recession. In addi-
above art fnomnthe "Wod Devclopment icato"sec-   tion, some countries that recently adopted re-
o. ofWrldDavelopme R9eport 199.            forms are still adjusting to a new set of widely
a. nmates   mid 1992.    :differeni rclative prices. Adjustment takes
-b.World Bank Attn methodolorDrlgy. 199042batime, and the costs of resource realignment
c. Estimated as bow4nome ($675 or Iess)  .  must be borne before benefits are reaped.



Latin Amercao and heCtbbaM    109
~~~~~~~
In Peru,female laborers work on a water-diversnion scheme, lfiing a canal that will cany wetrfrom the.Andes
so their village. Such projects are vilage-based and tend to ivolve panripationfrom wonen.
those of the nonindipnous populations. An 'ma-   gentina, Bolivia, Mexico, and Venezuela,
portant correlate of poverty nong indigenous   while Mexico has signed agreements with
grps is a lack of education, which is substan-   Costa Rica and Venezuela-Colombia. Guate-
tiafy below that of the general population.  mala and El Salvador have entered into a re-
The Bank's commitment to development and   gional free-trade agreement, which will also
to poverty reduction go hand in hand. In gen-   involve Hondumas. Bolivia, Colombia, Ecua-
eral, trends in income equalitY appear to have   dor, Peru, and Venezuela have signed a multi-
been significantly influenced by trends in per   lateral trade agreement. Trade has been opened
capita income; thus, the higher the growth in   up in most CARICOM countries (with the ex-
income per capita, the lower the inequality. In   ception of Antigua and Barbuda, and Belize),
Latin America, as elsewhere, the Bank's ef-  the fir stage of a common external tariff has
forts to reduce poverty follow a twopronged   been implemented, and nontariff trade-barriers .
approach: promotion of broad-based economic   continue to be reduced. Representatives of
growth and the larpting of assistance to poor   twenty-two countries and several dependent
and vulnerable groups.                    territories in the Canrbbean basin -have con-
dluded the frst round of talks aimed at creating
The Americas: Trade and Integration       a new regional trading bloc.
One of the most significant economic fea-  The NAFrA is one of the world's most com-
tures of the late 1980s and early 1990s has been   prehensive free-trade pacts (short of being a
the dramatic inacement in intaegional trade.   common market) among regional partners.
This was due, first, to trade bealiaon and   Some provisions tookplace on January 1,1994,
second, to regionalbilateral trade agreements-   the day the agreement went -into effect, and
MERCOSUR (Argentina, Brazil. Paraguay,   others will be implemented over a perod of
and Uruguay), CARICOM (the Caribbean   five, ten, and fifleen years. Special features in-
Common Market) with Colombia and Venezn-   dude: the opening up of service sectors, par-
ela, and other initiatives. These initiatives are   ticiuarly in finance, land transportation, and
likely to be replicated through the North Amer-  telecommunications; the immediate conver-
ican Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), as well  sion of key agricultural restrictions into tariff-
as through additional bilateral agreements.  rate surcharges (which wfll be phased out in no
Chile has signed bilateral agreements with Ar-   more than fifteen yearn); the dismantling of tra-
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



LaHln Amesco and the Cadbbean   109
b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-I.n Peru, female laborers work onv a water-diversion scheme, I;ning a canal that will carry waterfrom *he.Andes
.o tieir village. Sucltprojects are village-basoJdGndrendto involve participarionfrom womef. . -
.~~~~~~~ -
those of the'nonindigenous populations.-An im- -gentina, Bolivia, Mexico, and'-Venezuela,
portant correlate of poverty among indigenous   whilc Mexico has'-signed agrcements with
groups -is a lack of education, which is substan-   Costa Rica and Venezuela.-olombia. Guate-
tially below that of the general popuIation. ' mala- and El Salvador have 'entered into a re-
The Bank's cornmitment to development and   gional free-trade agreement, which will also
to poverty reduction go hand in hand. In gen-   involve Honduras. Bolivia, Colombia, Ecua-
eral], trends in income incquality appear to have   dor, Peru, and Venezuela have signed a multi-
ueen significantly influenced by trends in per   lateral tradceagreement. Trade has been opened
capita income; thus, the higher the growth in   up in most CARICOM'countries (with the ex-
income per capita, the lower the inequality. In   ception of Antigua and Barbuda, and Belize),
Latin- America, as elsewhere, the Bank's cf-  the fsnt stage of a commori external tariffl has
forts to reduce poverty foliow a two-pronged   been implemented, and nontariff trade barriers
approach: promotion of broad-based economic'  continue to be reduced. Representatives of
growth and the targeting of assistance to poor   twenty-two countries and several dependent
and vulnerable groups.                     ter-ritories in the Caribbean basin -have con-
-                        d~~~~~~~~~cuded the first round of talks aimed at creating
The Americas: Trade and Integation -       a new regional -trading bloc.
Onc of the most significant economic fea-  The NAFIA is one of the world's most com-
ture of the late 1980s and early 1990s has been   prehensive free-trade pacts (short of being a
the dramatic increment in intrategional tradc.   common market) among regional partners.
This was due, first, to trade liberalization and  'Some provisions took place on January 1, 1994,
second, to regionalbilateral trade agreements-   the day the agreement went -into effect, and
MERCOSUR (Argentina, Brazil. Paraguay,   others will be imnplemented: over a period of
and 'Uruguay), CARICOM (tl;e Caribbean   five, ten, and fifteen years. Special features in-
Common Market) with Colombia and Venezu-   clude: the opening up of service sectors, par-
ela, and other initiatfives. Thesc initiatives are   ticularly in finance, land transportation, and
likely to be replicated through the North Amer-  telecommunications; the immediate conver-
ican Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), as well  sion of key agricultural recstrictions into tariff-
as through additional bilateral agreements.   rate surcharges (which will bc phased out in no
Chffe has signed bilateral agreements with Ar-   more than fifte-en years); the dismantling. of tra-
.~~~~~~~~~4 -                         
tL~~,   .; :      -    -



110  1994 Regional Perspectives
ditionally high barriers by the United States   increased domestic expenditures and will pose
and Canada on imported textiles and apparel;  important challenges if they slow down9 This
the introduction of innovative dispute-   slowdown process will require significant rela-
settlement procedures; and the establishment   tive price adjustments that may be difficult to
of a mechanism to address cross-border envi-   engineer in countries with fixed or quasi-fixed
ronmental issues. The NAFTA's long-term ef-   nominal exchange rates. The possibility exists
fect on Mexico will have major secondary   that a reduction in capital inflows might be an-
effects on poverty reduction, the environment,   swered by increased trade protection, thereby
human resources, and rural/urban develop-   negating the effects of the recent opening up of
ment.                                     international trade, which has been the back-
The most notable increment in intraregional   bone of the region's reform effort.
trade has occurred in the MERCOSUR coun-      The key to the enhancement of the region's
tries. From 1987 to 1993, the share of in-   competitive edge is increased productivity.
tramember trade increased from about 22   This requires further trade liberalization, fur-
percent to almost 40 percent in Argentina; 13   ther deregulation of domestic markets (in par-
percent to 23 percent in Brazil; and from about   ticular, labor markets), and improvements in
30 percent to some 48 percent. in Uruguay.   the supervision of the deregulation process.
MERtCOSUR has also changed the trade pat-   Deeper trade liberalization would increase pro-
terns of its partners. In 1990, for instance, the   ductivity as economies shift their resources to
Brazilian government ceased providing incen-   areas of comparative advantage, and the region
tives to its wheat producers, thus giving a boost   absorbs state-of-the-art technology. Further
to imports of cheaper Argentinian wheat; it is   domestic market deregulation would also make
expected that Argentina will, eventually fill   economies more efficient and, consequently,
about 70 percent of Brazil's wheat-import   more competitive. In Peru, for example, it is
needs. Argentina's substantial exports to Bra-   estimated that labor productivity in the manu-
zil during 1993 helped reduce its bilateral trade   facturing sector has increased by about 21 per-
deficit from $1.7 billion to-$600 million.  cent since the beginning of the 1990 reform
Trade between Argentina and Chile has also   program, which has emphasized both trade lib-
increased significantly, from about $600 million   eralization and domestic market deregulation.
in 1990 to about $1 billion in 1993. Further eco-
nomic integration will be boosted by the con-   Stabion and Reform in Brazil
struction of new transAndean oil and gas      Brazil's economy represents about 40 per-
pipelines. Moreover, since 1991, Chile has be-   cent of the region's GDP. During the past few
come one of the biggest investors in Argentina,   years, the economy has experienced large mac-
with total investment of about $2.7 billion.  roeconomic imbalances and several attempts at
Although the increasing share of intra-   "shock" stabilization, among them the 1985
regional trade might have involved some diver-   'Cruzado Plan" and the 1990 Color Plan, nei-
sion of trade from the rest of the world, for   ther:of which reduced long-term inflation.
many countries there was also significant trade  Despite high rates of inflation in 1993, Bra-
creation: During the period 1987-93, Argentina   zil's economy experienced a substantial recov-
expanded the value of its trade to GDP from 13   ery, improving from a 0.9 percent decline in
percent to 20 percent, Chile from 56 percent to   output in 1992 to a positive 4.9 percent rate of
73 percent, Colombia from 37 percent to 44   growth. At the same time, however, the infla-
percent, Costa Rica from 64 petcent to 92 per-  tion rate increased dramatically. Despite a sig-
cent, Mexico from 25 percent to 39 percent,   nificant increase in taxes collected, which
and the Caribbean countries from 67 percent to   changed the operational deficit into a 017 per-
78 percent. This aggregate expansion of trade   cent surplus, inflation jumped from about 400
decelerated in 1992, however, and came to a   percent in 1992 to 2,752 percent in 1993, and,
halt in 1993, as the ratio of exports to GDP    by December 1993, it was running at an annual
remained roughly the same for most countries.   rate of about 5,000 percent. Yet another stabi-
Only seven countries increased (slightly) their  lization program was launched in March 1994.
exports during the year.                    With this effort, Brazil has taken the first steps.
Overall trade expansion was stalled by two.
events. The world demand for regional exports
was weakened by recession in the industrial   9Most of these inflows have been receikcd by the fivc larg-
countries, and the exchange rate in many coun-    est Latin American econonmes-mostly in fixed4ncome se-
tries of the region appreciated as a result of    curities From a modest bond issuance of about $400
Igaanw hb ithe in-    mllion in 1989. the market soared to about S23 billion in
large capital inflows th y r  1993. The stock markets in the are also boomed during
ternational competitiveness of the region s ex-    1993 due to their smalt capitalizadon base and increased
ports. These inflows are currently financing    investor confidence.



Lalln Amedca and the Caribbean   t11
Tabl. 5-15. World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in
Latin America and the Caribbean, 1990-94         .
(millions of US dollars; rml years)
Brzil            Madco           Argentina        Total region
sar               start            start             slirt
Item              1994  1994  1990-94 1994 1994 1990-94 1994 1994 1990-94 1994  1994. 1990-94
Undisbursed
commitments    4,789               3,712            1,607            16,183
Commitments              1,137  527     - 1,530 8,663        609 3,621       4,747  7.779
Gross disbursements       437  3,399       997 8,663.        392 2,789       2,769 2,307
Repayments  .            1,292  6,139     1,007 4,58         441 1,691       4,489 19,714
Net disbursements        -855 -2,740       -10 4,075        -49  1,097      -1,720  . 2,593
lnterest and charges   - 544  3,177         907 4,157        276 1,090       2,657 13,711
Net transfer       .     -1,399 -5,917    -917  --82       -325      7..   -4,377-11,118
Non: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund -e induded. The countries shown in the table ar those with the largest
amnounts or public or publicly guamateed long-term debL Detuls may sot add to toads because of rounding.
in a long-tenn program that is designed to re-   crease costs, reduce net wages, and promote
solve its fiscal problems and introduce mone-   the informal economy.
tary discipline- A return to high and sustinable  * As regional grwth is led by growth in the
growth will require that substantial progress be    private sector; actions to .sustain that sector's
made in the near future on the stabilization    development should continue, and the enabling
firont.                                     .  environment necessary for private sector
Brazil has made major headway in trade re-   growth nurturcd.
form. In June 1993, it completed a multiyear     * Public sector activities should be reori-
trade-reform program that reduced average tar-   ented to maximize their efficiency; priority
iffs to 14 percent in the context of a trade-   should be given to investment in infrastructure,
liberalization program- Exports reached $38.7    which, in many cases, has lagged as a result of
billion (compared with $36.1 billion in 1992),   spending cuts mandated by stabilization pro-
and manufactured exports grew from $20.6 bil-   grams.
lion to $23.8 billion. Overall, its trade surplus in  * Investment in health and education is cru-
1993 was $13 bllion The capital account con-   cial for labor productivity. The cost-
tinued to show large inflows and, by the end of   effectiveness of governments' health and
1993, reserves exceeded $32 billion (up $8 bil-   education expenditures must be assessed.
lion from the year before). Brazil's trade sector    Many countries still provide blanket higher-
has ample room to grow-, the total value of   education subsidies to students through re-
trade to GDP was only 15 percent in 1993.      duced or free tuition; by doing so, income
disparities are widened, and resources are
The Road Ahead         -                       spent inefficiently.'X
The region-s challenges are to reduce pov-     * Public sector decentralization has to be
erty and increase the well-being of its people   carefully implemented because local govcrn-
through environmentally sustainable develop-   ments are often wcaker in their administrative
ment. In this context, outward-oriented    capacities than central govermments.
growth, integrated with the world economy, is    * The judicial system, which has become a
crucial. It is also important to sustain fiscal re-   constraint on productivity, must be simplified
form and increase domestic savings. In this en-   and strengthened, and archaic and cumber-
deavor, a carefully planned and executed    some procedures eliminated.
reform of the social security system in many
countries of the region could be critical (see    The Bank's Strategic Objectives
Box 5-7). Success will depend on increasing ef-  The Bank has made considerable progress in
ficiency through more rapid growth in produc-   the planned transition in lending from adjust-
tivity. An integrated approach to increased    ment to long-term  issues-human resources
productivity requircs action in several areas:  development, environmentally sustainable de-
. Domestic markets need to be morc dereg-   velopment, and privatc-sector developmnwnL A
ulated at all levels. .
* Labor markets need to be deregulated and    lo The bottom 40 percent of the population in the region rc-
high payroll taxes reduced. These taxes in-      ceives only 13 percent of tota higher-education subsidies.



112   1994 RegIonal Perspecties
lBox 5-7. Pensio. Reform In Ladn America
During the debt and fiscal crisis of the 1980s.   developed financial markets. and the need for a
Latin America's pension schemes became senr-   strong regulatory and supervisory system. In
ously underfunded. By the end ofthe decade, fail-   countries with fiscal pmblems a combination of a
mig pensions (in real terms), lar  social-security   pay-as-you-go system that provides a miniimum
deficits, and depleted reserves haC irreparably    base with a complementary.fullyhmded private,.
damaged the credibility of traditional pension    system might be warranted.
schemes. As the countries of the region entered  Nonetheless, the -move toward the privtiza-:
the 1980s, the movement to privatize pensions   tion of social-security systems has begun in sev-
gained momentum, encouraged by the apparent   eral countries. It is furthest -along in Argentina-
success in Chile.             -              and Peru. In 1992, both governments proposed.
In l96l, Chile introduced a fully funded social-   changes that effectively privatized a large share
security system with individualaccounts. Itwas a    of the pension- sector. Peru's new pension law
mandatory,-defined-cntnbution system to which    went into effect in June 1993, while Argentns
workers contnbutd for old age, survivor, and    was signed into law in October l993.
disability benefits. The funds collected from  Not unexpectedly, the new social-security
workers were (and are) managed by thirteen pri-   schemes in the-three countries have a numberof
vate firms that operae under tight supervision'- common features. Argentinaand Peru have set up
with strict investment litations. A committee.   schemes for the management of social-security
selects the stocks in which the thirteen firms can   funds that are vcry similar to the one im Chile; i
invesL The government guarantees workers a,  fact, they lgely adopted the Chilcan  ry
ninimum  return of the lesser of (a) the avrcag    structure..  -
return on all funds less 2 percent or (b) half the  ButthenewestschemesalsodiffrfomCiles
average return on all funds. Workcers are free to   in certain important ways as a resut of the coon-_
switch their accumulated funds between the    tries'- diffiring political climats and institutions.
finns, thereby creating inltense competition    For- example, the political powerof u io d
among them. -Upon retirement, accumulated    pensioners-has ledArgntina to maintain alarge
fnds can be taken in a phasedwithdrawal and/or-  public plar. Thus all igiblc workers recevc
may be-used to purchasc indexed annuitics..  a flat benefit equal to30' percent of average cov-
If other gornments are not exactly beating    ered wages from the filrstpMarin addtn to their'
the- door down in their haste to move toward a    pension fommthe second pilar. An  icontrast
s lscrysym, Chilcanstyle, its bo e    to thew countctan in Chili and Argentia, the;
of the fiscal implications involved.. In Chile, the    privately managed investment firms in Peru op-
transition to the newsystem meant thatthiepublic   erate-in limited domestic capital markets, which
system lost many contnbutors (and, therefore,   provide few investment-options. En addiio-the -
much revenue); at the same time, howevcr, it re-   absence in Penr of rdiable records has forced of-
mained liable for pension payments to retires- ficialstoacceptthe' swom staecments" ofwork-
andrirdee-o-be during the transition. A deficit    m ers to estabhLsh thcir pasticontributions.i
of the publicsocial-securitysystem on the scale  The fiture of pension system is- curenty a*
ofthe Chilean reform would likely itensify fiscal   matter of-debate- in Bdivia, Brazil, Costa Ra,
pressues,therebymaldngabalancedbudgetthat   Mcxico.Urnguay, and Venezuea. While the out-
much more difficult to achieve. Other issues that   comes fll vary, gena  wecanesses in social-
countrics have to address include equitable treat-   security arangements in.Latin America make it
ment of different generations of workes, poten-   ikely that, given the chance;- increasing numbirs
tial problems that could arise from implementing    ofworxks in this regionwil trade in public prm-
a Chilean-style system in the absence- of well-  ises for private accounts.
comparison of the actual fiscal 1991-93 lending    through economic stabilization supported by
program with the proposed program for fiscal   targeted safety nets, stronger social sector in-
1994-96 shows a decline in lending for adjust-   stitutions, long-term investments in health and
ment and debt reduction from 24 percent to 3    education, the elimination of hidden subsidies
percent, an increase in lending for human re-   for the rich (such as free higher education) and
sourcestpoverty reduction from 23 percent to    hidden taxes on the poor (such as inflation and
33 percent, and an increase in environment and    trade barriers). During the past year, the Bank
forestry commitments from 7 percent to 13 per-   approved social sector and/or social invest-
cent.                                           ment fund projects in Ecuador and Peru (for
The focus on human resources and poverty    S30 mullion and $100 million, respectively).
issues reflects the region's historically highly    both broadly patterned on programs begun
stratified social structure and skewed distribu-   earlier in Bolivia, El Salvador, and Mexico.
tion of income. The situation cannot be re-       Much of the Bank's investment lending and
versed quickly, but improvements can be made    technical assistance in the environmental area



Latin Afmerica and the Caribbean  113
is oriented towards improving the environmen-   year. Good overall economic performance and
tal management capacity of governments (both   years of economic reform in many countries
national and subnational). This focus on insti-  have had a positive effect on portfolio perfor-
tutional strengthening is taking place within a   mance. The correlation between economic re-
context of widespread privatization, decentral-  form and good project implementation is
ization, and governmental 'downsizing" in  strong; in addition, the convergence ofthinking
many countries. The Bank is working with   between the Bank and its borrowers on eco-
member governments to ensure that adequate   nomic issues has made it easier to resolve out-
capacity exists for carrying out those environ-   standing problems. Implementation of some
mental functions (particularly legal, regulatory,   projects has been slowed, however, by (among
and planning) that remain the responsibility of   other reasons) shortages of counterpart funds
governments. At the same time, many projects  resulting from austerity drives- This problem is
are promoting the increased use of the private  typical of countries that are in the early stages
sector Iincluding nongovernmental organiza-   of adjustment. Other projects, however, have
tions) for the in-the-field implementation of en-   benefited as govermnents, such as those in Ja-
vironmenal activities such as delivery of urban   maica and Mexico, have concentrated re-
services, protected area management, and en-   sources on priority projects. Some countries
vironmental monitoring,                  have established or reinforced mechanisms for
The Bank has been in the forefront of pro-   monitoring project implementation.
moting private-sector development. Private  The Bank's esmpasis on quality at entry and
sector assessments, which aim at determining   borrowercommitment and ownership has been
the most important factors hampering the busi-  the key to the improved quality of its portfolio.
ness environment, were completed for several   Furthermore, importance has been placed on
countries ofthe region duing the year. Implicit  effective supervision ofthe portfolio of ongoing
in this work is the idea that governments have   projects. The quality at entry concept includes
a comparative advantage in certain areas-   not only the traditional standards of project
providing price stability, an efficient legal   quality but also borrower ownership and com-
system, secure property rights, security, edu-   mitment to a project and to design-for-
cation. and health services, and infiastructure;  implementation. Borrower commitment and
the private sector, however, has the advantage   ownership is developed upstream with the in-
in the production of goods and services.  volvement of borrowers and other stakehold-
e  in sector work that eventually leads to
Porffolio Performance and Trends         sctor strategies and identification and prepa-
There was further improvement in the re-  ration of projects.
gion's portfolio performance during the past



114  1994 RegIonal Perspecties
Middle East and North Africa
In calendar year 1993, the MIiddle East and    Tuk- -17. RGDP G
North Africa region experienced a continued    1991-93 selected Economes
decline. in growth rates and marked variability 
in performance among countries. Real gross    Country           1991   1992:-  1993
domestic product (GDP) growth in 1993 forthe                     0.2    23.  -1.7
eight countries in which theBankwas mostac-    Egypt    :2.1    03    0--
tive" was about 1.5 percent, compared with -l-                   103    6A       3.0
4.3 percent in 1992 (see Table 5-17). Rates of   Jordan           o.0  11.0      6.0
GDP growth ranged from - 17 peent in Al-.  ILcbaIon       ..   .38.2-  435 - 7.0
geria to 7 percent in Lebanon.              Morocco.             62   -4.0       0.0
In the Magbreb, Algeria remains in recession    Occupid Terrtories   -4v0- -23.6.  -10.1
as a result of a further decline in petroleum   TXi-a,           3.8    &O      -2.6
prices, a heavy debt burden, and drought-    yM                  0.0.      0.1   03
related declines in agricultural production. Mo-    RSiot        6.3    43       15
rocco is coming out of two years of drought.
during which GDP declined by a cumulative   -y VDdn d Lb
4 percent.. The underlying macroeconomic in-
dicators remain favorable for long-term
growth, howe-ver, and the oudook for 1994 is  In Iran, real growth slowed from 5.8 percent
good because of improved rainflL Tunisia's  in 1992 to 3 percent. Two factors, in particular,
GDP grew at about 2.5 percent               contnrbuted to the slowdown. Fist, an oil-price
decline reduced export earnings by 15 percent
Second, arrears on short-term trade credits re-
Tch!. 5-16. MIde East and North            duced Iran's access to new credit and contrib-
Afriern 199 Populaton and Per Capita       uted to a sharp decline in imports and growth
GNP of Countries that Borrowed during        Egypt continued to pursue its ambitious pro-
-s   Years 199234                          gram of stabilization and structural reform.
Growth of output remained below 1 percent in
- millions) E -  -  a. fiscal 1993, with only aiculture and construc-
Country     (nolnos)f  MCSdolksr    tion showing signs of recovery;overall growth
is expected to increase gradually to reach 43
Al -a   .             26.3   : -- 1,840 0 - -  percent in fiscal 1996. Elsewhere in the Mash-
Egypt                54.7         640      req, Jordan's high rate of growth in 1992 car-
an, Islamic                    fried over into 1993; GDP growth exceeded 6
Republic of         59.6-     2,200      percent. But, in contrast to 1992, when growth
-   Jordan       -   39- -    1,120  .   was largely concentrated in construction and
Lebanont - ;        3.8                  domestic services, 1993 saw a more broadly
Morooco              26.2       1,030    based pattern of growth. In addition to con-
finisa                8A.4  --1,720   ~   . struction, nonmineral exports, trade services,
Yent                 1 E    -       -      i3.0  -  transportation, and tourism all recorded gains-
NoTrn he 1992 estimte of GNP per capita pested    Lebanon's reconstruction, supported by large
aboveamof &=trM  DevpnRpmrt 1 do4sc    private capital inflows, resulted in robust (7
percent) growth.
-Notav  ;.            f  ;           ;       Economic reforms remain high on the
a. Estimates for mid I992
a. Weld Deskda,    - .   .         -~ -    : agenda of most countries. Governments in
b; WiddBAtks.mrlodokwi. I990-Y2k perieL.-
c. Estmates refer to Fa Bank only.X
& dEstmaed as la ewe (S57625). -             Algia. Egypt. knn. ordan. Lebanon. Morocco. Tuni-
c. Esmated as low6icom (S675 or kss). - -- .-  Si and Ye
-    .                              . : S - -- 12 Eg~lyps fisal year y uns rml ly Ilt o June 30



Middle East and North MIca  115
Egypt, Iran, and Jordan continued to imple-    Restoring sustained growth. Following rela-
ment stabilization policies effectively.   tively good economic performance in the 1960s
Morocco and Tunisia have moved from stabi-  and 1970s, the 1980s and the first years of the
lization to longer-term macroeconomic man-   current decade have been host to economic cri-
agement and structural reform. Algeria is  sis, which has led to a drop in per capita in-
implementing a stabilization program that is be-   comes in most countries of the region. The
ing supported by a one-year, $1 billion standby   crisis has been characterized by a deteriorating
arrangement with the International Monetary   external economic environment, particularly
Fund. Virtually all economies reduced their fis-  the sharp drop in international oil prices, de-
cal deficits, most notably in Egypt, where the   creasing efficiency in the use of capital, low
deficit fell from 22 percent of GDP in fiscal 1991   levels of private investment, and poor export
to about 4.7 percent in fiscal 1993. Inflation   performance. In many countries, GDP growth
was kept in check throughout the region;   remains below the rate of population growth.
balance-of-payment deficits were reduced, and   This, in turn, is reflected in high and increasing
(with the exception of Iran) large movements in  rates of unemployment, which range from 15
exchange rates were avoided. There were also   percent in Tunisia and Morocco to 27 percent
encouraging signs that private sector activity is  in Yemen. The consequences of past popula-
picking up-especially in Jordan, Lebanon,  tion growth wil continue to be felt through
Morocco, and Tunisia. Increasing foreign di-  large increases in the labor force. Levels of
rect investment (FDI) is playing an important   poverty are also related to growth and employ-
role in this resurgence. FDI in 1992 almost dou-   ment, a more equitable distnbution of the ben-
bled 1991's total due to an improved invest-  efits of economic growth, and targeted social
meat climate and was expected to reach $2   safety net interventions. Countries, on the one
billion in 1993.                         hand, such as Morocco, which have achieved
The historic signing of the peace accord be-  relatively high, sustained rates of growth, have
tween Israel and the Palestine Lberation Or-  also been able to reduce the number of poor
ganization was the most significant political  (from an estimated 5.7 million people in 1985 to
event in the region during the past fiscal year.  about 3.4 mfllion in 1991). In Jordan, on the
The Bank has been a central player in provid-   other hand, where economic growth has not
ing technical assistance and aid coordination in   been as sustained, the number of poor has not
support of the peace process (see Box 5-8).    decreased.
Beyond the immediate impact of the accord on  To prevent further increases in unemploy-
the Occupied Territories, the peace process-   ment and poverty, the region's economy must
should it widen beyond its current scope-   grow at about 5 percent per year and be ac-
would have a number of important implications   companied by labor-intensive methods of pro-
forfuture economic development in the region    duction, including the promotion of small and
* Greater stability would likely increase   medium-sized enterprises. Growth of that mag-
trade flows, especiallyforEgypt, Jordan, Leba-   nitude could be realized if rates of investment
non, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Stability   were to increase to around 25 percent of GDP
wil also fivor inflows of private capital and   (compared with an avenage of 20 percent now)
private investments.                     and if the incremental capital-output ratio
* The reduction in geopolitical tensions   (ICOR) could be reduced to five from its cur-
could allow governments to shift public re-  rent level often through increased productivity
sources away from military expenditures and   and labor-intensive production. A private
place greater emphasis on sustainable eco-   sector-onented growth strategy offers the best
nomic growth, especially human resources de-   prospects of realizing increases in investment
velopment.                               and improvements in the ICOR. Traditionally,
* The scope for regional economic coopera-   countries of the region have relied more than
tion could increase, especially in the areas of   other low-income and middle-inccme countries
water management, the environment, and in-   on public investment Although the level ofpnr-
fistructure.                             vate investmnt nearly doubled between 1970
and 1990, it is still less than 10 percent of GDP
Key Development Challenges               (rates are well above the 15 percent mark in the
The ability of the region to realize the eco-   high-performing countries of the East Asia and
nomic benefits of the evolving peace process   Pacific region). Moreover, the declining effi-
will depend fundamentaLly on its capacity to   ciency of investment is largely associated with
meet three key development challenges: (a) re-  the implementation of a public sector-led strat-
storng sustained growth; (b) developing hu-   egy. In most countries of the region, large but
man resources; and (c) managing scarce natural  inefficient parastatal enterprises continue to
resources, especially water.             dominate the economy.



116   199'4 Reglonci Perspectlves
Box 5-. The World Bak and the Oocped TerGdS.-
The economies of the West Bank and Gaza (the    bilitation program for Gaza A separate $35 mil-
Occupied Territories) are in a state of crisis, and   lion trust fund aims -to provide technical
a new course will have to be charted to ensure   assistane and to finance feasibility studie in the 
renewed growth andjob-creation in the economic    Occupied Territories.
environment likely to be faced in the -1990s. Sus-  In the wake of the October meeting, the Bank
tainable growth prospects are contingent on de-   has moved ahead on three fronts: donor coordi-.
veloping central institutions, rehabilitating and    nation, institution building, and program dewl-
expanding infiastructure, attracting private in-   opmenL
vestments, and building a financial sector. In ad-  Donorcoortation. FoDowingthe Octoberdo-:
dition, the new Palestinian self-governing    nors' mneeting, a consultative group mting was  -
authority must also develop a reformed lepl sys-   convened in December to discuss and agre on;
W en, enforce property. rights, and collect taxes.   the proposed emergency assistmce to the Occu-.-
The World. Bank. became involved in the Occu   pied Territories. When it became apparent that a.
pied Territories in early 19933, when it was invited   significant proportion of assistance would have to-
by the European Community, the chair of the    be allocated to rgent recrent expenditures of a
Economic WorkingGroup, and other participns    start-up or transitional nature, the Bank was
to prepare a series of reports on regional devel-   asked to prepare the groundwork for a second
opment with a special emphasis on the.Occupied   meeting of the group in January 1994. Thc meet-  X
Territories. Developing the Occupied Terricories,   ing proved to be an unprecedented success inithat
an Investment in Peace' was completed by the   substantial pledges weVt made for financing re-
time of the historic handshake between Palestine    current transitional and start-up expenditures-: -
Liberation Organizaion Chairman Yasir Arafat   types of expenditures not normnaly fundedby.the
and Israeli Prime Minister Ytzhak Rabin. and it   donor community. Donors were also given the
provided the basis for a meeting in-October 15993    opportunity- to contribute to a, newly created
:inWashington, D.C ofthe donor community,at   HolstiPeace Fund (nmed aftertbe late Norwe-  c- - -
which $2.1 bilion was pdged to rebuild the Oc-   giani Miister of Foreign Affairs,. Johan Hoist),;
cupied Territories. In that same month, the Bank    which would be admisted by the Banki The
approved the establishment of two trust fumds   fnd, which: is short.term in nature (disburse-:
aimnedat pnrviding urgent assistance to the West.,  ments are to be completed by around the end of
Bank and Gaza.                              calendar 1994), will finance items such 'as con-
-:A; $50 million crust fund, drawn from the-   slumable health:and education supplies and sala-
IBRD's fiscal 1992 surptus andmiLstmd by'  des of key Palestinian stat
IDA, is aimed at supporting an emergency reha-  Insdtitional building. The iPale n Eco--
Because the discrepancy between domestic    Even in well-performing countries such as Tu-
levels of savings and investments is still large,   nisia. and Morocco, the adult illiteracy rate is
external capital flows remain vital to the re-   more than 10 percentage points higher than the
gion. In Egypt, for example, investments equal   average for all middle-income .countries. The
about 18 percent of GDP, whereas savings    average infant morality rate for the region is
amount to a mere 7 percent. Overall, savings    around 60 per 1,000 live births, compared with
for the region average about 18 percent of   38 for all middle-income countries. The aver-
GDP, while investment is about 22 percent. If   age population growth for countries of the Mid-
governments were to shift to a private sector-   dle East and North Africa is among the highest
led growth strategy, an increasing share of ex-   in the world: During the 1980s, the average an-
ternal flows would be directed to the private    nual rate of 3.2 percent was actuaRy higher
sector. The potential exists in the region to in-   than in the 1970s. Farther improvements in so-
crease private capital flows-not only through    cial indicators are key to the region's long-term
FDI and larger levels of workers' remittances    development prospects- To achieve these im-
but also through the reflow of assets held    provements, additional efforts wil be needed
abroad. Improvements in macroeconomic   to expand and improve the quality of basic ser-
management and in the investment climate, as    vices. In most cases this wouldjustify substan-
well as progress in privatization, wiU play cen-   tialy increased budgetary aRocations. There is
tral roles in this process.                    also room to improve the internal efficiency of
* Developing human resources. In spite of im-   public social services, mobilize private financ-
pressive gains made in social indicators during    ing, and encourage the private provision of so-
the 1980s, many countries still lag behind other   cial services.
middle-income countries on aU the basic indi-    Managing natural resources. Natural re-
cators of educational achievement and health.   source management is another pressing re-



Middle E*st and North Afric   117
nomic Council for Development and Reconstruc-   $2.1biionpledged ovcrfive years atthe October
tion (PECDAR). orgaized by the Palestine LIb-   1993 conference (the pledges subsequently in-
eration Organization with the support of the    creased to $2.4 bilion). o t  p   wa t
donor community and the Bank. has been desig-  The first tangible result of the p   was the
nated as the agency in charge of aid coordination    approval in May 1994 ofa $30 milion Trust Fund-
and public investment progrmming during the   for Gaza creit on IDA terms in support of an
peace process To help support PEDCAR and the   Emergency Rehabilitation Project, which has at-
emerging Palecstinian institutions, a widc-ranging    tacted $98 millian. in firm cofinancing commit-
prgamof techniclassisnce (about$40 million    ments from the. Aab. Fund for Economic and.
over three years) was tabled at the December   SocialDevelopment($30million.)theSaudiFund
meeting of the consuitative group. This progr-a,   for Development (S30 mIllion), Dennark (S20 mil-;
; .       - which consists of some 100 activities, is being co-.  lion), the Kuwait Fund for-Arab Economic De-
ordinated in the context of the $35 million tech-   velopment. (S10 million), and .Switzerland. (Sg
nical assistance trust fund, which has drawn    million). The projet is financing the rebabilita-
cofinancing commitments from nine donors, with   tion, reconstuction, andlor improvement of pri-
the prospects of additional cofinancingfiron five   ority infatructual services in the education,
othicrdonors.                              power, water supply and sand roads
Progrwn developmme   he Bank's report on. sector Technical assistance to-hp strengthen
developing the Occupied Territories recom- .the capacities of municipalidiesin Gza 2ad the
mended thata majorinvestmnt program inGazi   West Bank, to support the operations anddevel-
*          and the Wcst Banlcbe initiated overthe nefive   opment of PEDCAR and to ensure that the
yearn. Folowing agreement in May 1994 on the    project is efficiently and effctively implemceted,
i;::mplementaion of the Dclation of Principles   w wM also be provided. Project- implation is
between the Palesnians and the Israelis, the   being supported by Bank staff thughintensive
--. a.nkreleasedareporroutningathree-yeaSll  hfield work in the Occupied Territories and from
-billion program to assist the Palestinians in the   Wash-ingon.
transitionto atonomousrule?.
Thegoal of tie pmgram is to rebuild the infia-  -
-structure ofthe Occupied Territores in order to                 . B    1   D   t O   -
stimulate economic growth: br. auracting private '  = 
imvestment oportunies from expatrate Pales-  -to, D.C.    -
tinians, international investors, and Arab states.    wn Bank. 1994. &wegeCYAnsWunc gmfi
-The $12 billion is the initial installment of the    ihe Occupied Ternkoes Wahington. D.C..
gional issue, especially in the case of water.   and reuse, and water imports. These are much
'With a few exceptions, the region is moving    more expensive than traditional sources, and
toward a water crisis. Rainy seasons are short,   research efforts designed to reduce costs, such
and agriculure is heavily dependent on rriga-   as the desalination program recently embarked
tdon. Rapid population growth and urbaniza-   upon in Oman, need to be stongly suppported.
tion have pushed demand for water to the point   Moreover, because many rivers and some im-
where withdrawals are exceeding replenish-   portart underground aquifers cross national
ments. Few untapped sources of fresh water   boundaries, agreements at the national and
remain, and countries are increasingly mining   transnational level will increasingly be re-
groundwater aquifers. By the year 2000, with-   quired.
drawals in most countries will exceed total
freshwaterpotential. Competing demands from    The Bank's Strategy for the Region
agriculture, industries, and municipalities     The World Bank's strategy for the Middle
dictate the need for appropriate demand-   East and North Africa region emphasizes sus-
management policies-especially in the area of   tained commitment to operations and analytical
water pricing. But demand management alone    work to promote employment-led growth, fos-
cannot meet the full water requirements of bur-   ter human resources development, and improve
geoning populations. Technological innovation    natural resoure management Increasing atten-
and modern on-farm technologies, which, in   tion was devoted in fiscal 1994 to the important
several countries, have succeeded in halving   interrelationships among coonomic growth, hu-
water use while doubling yields, should com-   man resources development, and poverty.
plement demand-management policies. Alter-   While the thrust of the Bank's assistance strat-
native sources of water need to be explored,   egies is aimed at the needs and constraints of
including desalinaton, wastewater treatment   individual economies, efforts to promote re-



*118   1994 Regional Penspective
gional cooperation in areas such as environmen-  Improvements in the structure of incentives,
tal protection and waxer-resource management   the regulatory fr-amework, and protection of
are becoming increasingly important.           property rights are needed in many countries of
Stabilization and structural reform also re-   the region to provide the private sector with the
main high on the Bank's agenda for the region.   environment required for increased levels of
In Morocco and Tunisia-which are well ad-   job-creating investment. During the past year,
vanced in stabilizng their economiies and are   the Bank addressed private sector develop-
continuing to undertake structural reforms-    ment int a variety of.ways. In Tunisia, for
the Bank's focus has shifted from stabilization    instance, financial sector reforms were sup-
to long-term development. Agricultural sector*   ported through a private investment project
loans to the two countries that were approved    that uses a number of financial institutions to
during the past year are emblematic of this   provide long-term credit at market termis to a
shift. Jordan and Egypt are also steadily pro-   broad range of private investors. Private sector
ceeding on the path of reform. In Egypt, reform    assessments, which analyze the structuire of,
is being advanced by the Bank's support for the    and'constraints to, the private sector in given
second phase of the government7s Economic   countries and which lay out concrete steps that
Reform and Structural Adjutstment Programt,   can be taken to advance private sector devel-
which provides the fr-amework for continued    opment, were carried out for Egypt, Morocco,
economic reform, even -though it is not asso-   and Tunisia The Morocco assessmnent was the
diated with a specific lending operation. In    centerpiece of ahigh-level semi'nar at which the
Jordan, an 580 million energy-sector loan, ap-   private and public sectors produced an agenda
provied in fiscal 1994. aims at addressing    of recommended actions to promote private
supply-side constaraits to growth.             sector development. Together with the govern-
Table 5-18. Lending to Borrowers in Middle East awl Norfth Africa, by Sector,
(nulWowof US donars fisca years)
Amind 
Sector~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ 191`92                              1993    r1m-C
Agriculture:                          374.6    129.0     13.2-   2992.2  463.0    601.7
-EneW-y
Oillandga                            3.5        -      84.0    160.0               80.01
Power ~~~~~~-           101.8  ~~~~~15.5    11440)   220.0  ..165.07- 
Environment        -        -         -        -        -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6.0
Humuan Resources
EducAotio                           122.2     30.5 -241A4       754)    115.2      33.
'Population healkh; and nutrition    119.9   11.       250        68      S.0     
Social sector---                                                  ---
Inutyand Fiac
Industry                             188      9935   365.0        ---
Finance                          . 106.6   .196.0    23.5.0       --              120.0
infastuacture and Urban Development
Telecoinmnications                   36.8       ---                       0.       20.0
Transortation                       113.4    ~79.0.'  162-.0              350-
Urban development                   325      105_5.-~  250.0   110.0 i684.0-
Water supply and sewerage:          167.1     12.0       -      57.0       -      270.0-
NMiniugand Other Exftactive            11.6.    25.0       --                      
Multisector                         1418.0-   450.0    310.      520 . -           ,-
:Public Sector Managment   _            55      100        -       90-~ 1.9
Tourism              -            -.             -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-130.0
Total,             .,273    1,391.0   2096  .142 0 10.2 1,0.
Of which:: IBRD.                  1,180.8  13235- 1,784.0-  1,324.0  1,756.4   1,050.6,
IDA                        4j.7      673     235.6'   158.0    123.8'   100.0 
-Nuinberotoperaxious   --  '~~21.     :20      _20-      17       19        16:
- Non: Detail may Dot add to totals because of rning.
...~~~~~~Z



Mddle East Eand Norh Africa 119
Table S-19. World Bank Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transers in
Middle East and North Africa, 1998-94
(millions ofUS dolars. fiscal years)
Eypt-          Algrria         Moroc    -      Total reion
start           Stat            start .  -      a
Itemn            1994 1994 1990-94 1994 1994 199094 1994 1994 199-94 1994  1994 .1990-94
Undisbursed
commitmcnts    1,134          -1,474            1,579           6,218
Commitments      -     121 1,290       140 1,484.      412 2,395.      1,151  7,924
Gross disbursements    183  767        [98 1,353       311  1.894      1,057  5,921
Repayments             199  977        189.  806 .   292 1,230           964  4,343
-Net disrsements      -16  -210          9   547      - 19 - 664          92  1,578
ihterest and charges   120  657-       114  498        264 1,212       .'730. 3,321
Net transfer          -136  -867      -105   49.  -245  -548.          -638 -1743
Nor: Disbursements fiaum thclDA Special Fun ae included. The counties sbown in the table ame those wkh the larges
amounts of public or publily guaanteed log-tam debt Detis may not add to totals becmuse of roundin
ment and the private sector, the Bank is devel-   by the European Commission of the European
oping an operation to support this agenda.  Union, the European Investment Bank, the
Human resources development also features   United Nations Development Programme, and
promiaendy in the Bank's operations and sec-   the World Bankl Under the fist phase of this
tor work. Strategies are molded to the specific   program, more than twenty transnational and
needs of individual countries. For example, ba-   country-specific projects have. been. prepared
sic educational services are being supported   in the areas of water-resource management,
through an education project approved.duwing   hazardous waste management, marine oil and
the year in Yemen. The Bank's analytical work   chemical-pollution prevention and control, and
is also focusing increasingly on the human re-   coastal zone management. The program has
sources sectors. In Morocco, for example, is-   also helped to create important networks of
sues in education were addressed through a   concemed national institutions.
literacy and schoolng study and through a re-  Poverty was the focus of both analytical
view ofthe costs and financing ofthe education    work and operations. Three poverty assess-
sector, and a nutrition strategy was developed   ments, which provide the basis for a collabo-
to deal with pertient health issues. In Tumsia,   rative approach to poverty reduction by
an analysis of the issues facing post-basic ed-   country officials and the Bank, illustrate the
ucation and training was prepared on the basis   extent to which economic growth has a notice-
Of field work and subsequent analysis carried   able effect on poverty reduction. These assess-
out by national teams. This joint approach is   ments, for Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, are
expected to result in strong country ownership   also providing the analytical basis for improv-
of the study's conclusions.                ing public spending in the social sectors and
Environmental issues are being addressed at   putting in place more effcctive social safety
both the country and regional levels. At the   nets. The poverty assessment for Egypt served
country level, environmental stufdies and strat-   as the basis for ongoing reforms in health, hu-
egies have been completed for Algeria, Egypt,   man resources development, as weU as for im-
Iran, and Yemen. Specific operations, such as   provements in the social safety net and in the
water-supply projects in Algeria and Morocco,   pension scheme. The deficiencies in social in-
dealt directly with pressing water problems.   dicators highlighted by the poverty assessment
The Morocco Environment Technical Assis-   for Morocco are being addressed in a series of
tance Project was the Bank's first stand-alone   social priorities projects currently under prep-
lending operation in the region to focus primar-   aration. Targeted poverty-reduction interven-
ily on environment planning and management   tions are critical components in the Northwest
In Egypt, three projects related to the coun-   Mountainous Areas Development Project in
try's national environmental action plan, which   Tunisia, as well as in the National Rural F-
was jointy prepared and endorsed by ten ex-   nance Project in Morocco, which also has a
ternal donors, are currently in the Bank's lend-   component designed to funnel credit to women.
ing program. At the regional level, cooperative  In infrastructure, Bank lending continues to
action continued in the context of the Mediter-  focus on removing key constraints and creating
ranean Environmental Technical Assistance   an enabling environment for pnvate sector par-
Program (METAP), which is jointly sponsored   ticipation. The Telecommunications Project in



120  1994 Regional Pespecie
P
1   :                    ..0.   f                  ;   0~~~~~~~~4: 
L..
'4
.Young workers in Egypt lay drainage pipes in a waterlogged feld near their village.
Jordan, for example, supports the creation of a   operation, the Bank is helping the Jordan Tele-
new sector policy and telecommunications law   commnunications Corpomtion in raising private
in addition to providing for service improve-  funds to commercialize, corporatize, and sub-
ments. Supported by an expanded cofinancing   sequently privatize its operations.



Middle East and Nortn Arica  121
From Strategy to Implementation            portfolio-performance reviews (CPPRs) and re-
flecting the outcome of those reviews in
Implementation of the Bank's operational   country-assistance strategies;
strategy has emphasized the ability to respond  * Undertaking additional initiatives to im-
quickly to changing economic and political cir-   prove project quality at entry by involving the
cumstances. Total staff resources in fiscal 1994   technical department and relevant central vice-
increased modesdy above the levels of the pre-   presidential units in project design and by ex-
vious two fiscal years to accommodate the new    plicitly linking project content to well-
challenges of work on the Occupied Territo-   articulated sectoral strategies;
ries. Within the total, however, a marked re-  * Increasing high-level managerial review of
deployment of staff has taken place to improve   portfolio performance and recognizing excel-
portfolio implementation, and significant real-  lence in portfolio management;
locations continued to be made across coun-  * Simplifying business processes to improve
tries in light of evolving circumstances. Thus,   accountability and encourage initiative; and
reductions in programs in somne countries of the  * Increasing supervision efforts. -In the case
region allowed additional resources to be com-   of Egypt, for example, where supervision work
mitted to the work on the Occupied Territories.  is increasingly being delegated to the Bank's
The Bank has reacted quickly and flexibly to   resident. mission, the direct supervision input
emerging needs: Assistance to the Occupied   per project increased from 14.6 staffweeks in
Territories was characterized by both flexibil-  fiscal 1992 to 16.2 staffweeks in fiscal 1993.
ity and innovation; in Lebanon, the focus of  CPPRs have now been carried out for all ma-
the Bank's assistance strategy was on recon-  jor borrowing countries and are on an annual
struction, while the Emergency Desert Locust   cycle. These efforts to link portfolio perfor-
Control Project in Algeria provided a quick re-   mance and country strategy are already having
sponse (it was appraised in October 1993 and   an effect on the volume, structure, and design
approved in early December) to the challenge   of lending programs in the region. For exam-
of incipient natural disaster.             pie, the country-assistance strategy for Egypt
Efforts continued to improve portfolio man-   was revised during the year to reflect major
agement and project quality by:            changes in project identification and develop-
* Linlking the lending program, project de-   ment processes resulting from agreements with
sign, and portfolio performance explicitly   the government reached during the country-
through the conduct of thorough country   portfolio review.



122
Summaries of Projects Approved
for IBRD, IDA, cnd Trust Fund for
Gaza Assistance in Fiscal 1994
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in This Section
ACBF-Africa Capacity Building            IDA-International Development
Foundation                               Association
ADF-African Development Fund             IDB-Inter-American Developmcnt Bank
AfDB-African Development Bank            IFAD-International Fund- for Agricultural
AGCD-Administration Gdndrale de la         Development
Coopdration Beige                      IMF-International Monetary Fund
AFESD-Arab Fund for Economic and         IsDB-[slamic Development Bank
Social Development                     JExIm-Export-Import Bank of Japan
AsDB-Asian Development Bank              JIC,4,-Japan International Cooperation
BADEA-Arab Bank for Economic               Agency
Development in Africa                  KFAED-Kuwait Fund for Arab
BITS-Swedish Agency ror International      Economic Development
Technical and Economic Cooperation     NDF-Nordic Development Fund
BOAD-Banque Ouest-Africaine de           NORAD-Norwegian Agency for
Developpement                            Development Cooperation
CDB-Caribbean Development Bank           ODA-Overseas Development
CFD-Caisse francaise de                    Administration
ddveloppement                          OECF-Overseas Economic Cooperation
CIDA-Canadian International                Fund
Development Agency                     OPEC-Organization of the Petroleum
DANIDA-Danish International                Exporting Countries
Development Agency                     PHARE-Pologne-Hongrie: aide i la
EBRD-European Bank for                     rdconstruction economique
Reconstruction and Development         SDC-Directorate for Development
EU-European Union                          Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid
ECO-Expanded cofinancing operation         (Switzerland)
EDF-European Development Fund            SFD-Saudi Fund for Development
EIB-European Investment Bank             SIDA-Swedish International
FAC-Fonds d'aide et de cooperation         Development Authority
FINNIDA-Finnish International            UNDP-United Nations Development
Development Agency                       Programme
GEF-Global Environment Facility          UNICEF-United Nations Children's Fund
IBRD-International Bank for              USAID-United States Agency for
Reconstruction and Development           International Development
(World Bank)                           WFP-World Food Programme
Agriculture                                   management plans developed; the decline
ALGERIA: IBRD-S30 million. Attempts to       in timber harvest will be reduced through
ALGERI: IBR-S30 mllion Attcmts to the import of spare parts: and the
thwart a locust plague, forecast for late   establishment of private sector harvesting.
1993 and early 1994, will be made through  transport, and other services to the sector
truck-and-airplane applications of
pesticides, and the country's existing      promoted. Technical assistance is included.
locust surveillance and monitoring systems  Total cost: $54.7 million.
will be upgraded, thus facilitating planning
and implementation of future control      NOTrE Dat used in this section have been compilcd from
programs in situations of both plague and  documcntation provided at the time of project approval.
recession. Total cost: $51.2 million.     Projects marked by an asterisk (*) are included in the Pro-
BELARLTS: IBRD-$41.9 million. Forestry      gram of Targeted Interventions, and those marked with a
pound sign (#3 are poverty-focused adjustment operations.
resource management will be improved      Projects marked by a dagger(t) included the participation of
and medium-term strategic resource        primary stakeholders.



Summorles of Probcts Approved   123
t*BENIN: IDA-$9.7 million. T'he              management in the three major types of
govemment will be assisted in ulleviaLing  forest land in the country-plantations,
poverty and improving food security and     watershed-protection forests, and nature
nutrition standards for vulnerable groups in  reserves-will be enhanced. Colinaincing
about twenty areas of the country through  ($18.4 million) is expected from the GEF.
a project that helps finance coinmunity-    Total cost: $356 million.
developmcnt initiatives. income-generating    tCHINA: IDA-$150 million. The per capita
activities, micro-infrastructure, nutrition  incomes of some 67.000 households living
activitics, and institution-building       in resource-constrained remote upland
assistance. Cofinancing is expected rrom    areas of.Zhcjiang. Fujian, and Jiangxi
DANIDA ($4.9 million) and the WFP           provinces are expected to triple as a result
($700,000). Total cost: $19.1 million.      of a second project supporting the
tBHUTAN: IDA-$5.4 million. The               integrated development of paddy, upland,
government's efforts to develop and         and -forest areas. Total cost: $296.4 million.
implement an approach for sustainable     t*CHINA: IDA-$'50 million. Agricultural
protection. management, and use of its      production will irnerease on more than
forest resources will be supported through  15,000 square kilometers of land in the
a project that will help finance a          Loess plateau watershed and incomes
comprehensive program of activities for     raised for the more than I million people in
forest-resource development in eastern     the project area by creating sustainable
Bhutan. with maximum participation of       crop production on high-yielding level
forest users. Cofinancing ($2.7 million) is  farmland and replacing areas devoted to
being provided by the SDC. Total cost:      crops on erodible slope lands with
$8.9 million.                               plantings to a range of trees, shrubs. and
BULGARIA: IBRD -$50 million. Access of       grasses for land stabilization and the
the private sector to medium-term and       production of fuel, timber, and fodder.
long-term credit for investments in primary  Total cost: $248.7 million.
agriculture and agribusiness will be      tCHINA: IDA-SI 10 million. One hundred
improved through provision of foreign       fifty-four thousand people directly affected
exchange resources to participating         by the construction of the Xiaolangdi dam
financial intermediaries. Total cost: $63.4  will be resettled and their livelihoods both
million.                                   restored and improved through the
CHINA: IBRDK-$0 million. Through the          reconstruction of villages and towns,
construction of the 154-meter high          development of agricultural land, relocation
Xiaolangdi rockfill dam and a power         of small industries and commercial
station with an installed capacity of 1,800  enterprises, and the establishment of new
mW, flood protection will be provided for   county, township, and village industries, In
103 million people in the North China      addition, income opportunities for about
plain, sediment accretion in the lower      300,000 people in the host areas receiving
reaches of the Yellow river will be         the resettlers will be expanded. Total cost:
controlled for some twenty years,           $571.3 million.
hydropower will be generated. irrigadon  t*COLOMBIA: IBRD-$39 million. The first
water supplied for about 2 million bectares,  phase of a long-term Natural Resource
and a stable water supply furnished for     Management Program-designed to
downstream cities and industries. Total     develop policies and mechanisms to help
cost: $2,294.7 million.                     arrest the degradation of natural renewable
tCHINA: IDA-S205 million. The living          resources-will be implemented in the
standards of more than a half million farm  Choco region, which has a 90 percent
families living in the Songliao plain area of  African-Colombian and indigenous
Liaoning and Jilin provinces are expected   population and a high incidence of poverty.
to increase as a result of a project that will  The project will thereby generate the
expand irrigation and drainage facilities.  policy, institutional, and technical base for
develop marginal lands for orchards,        future forest management and land-titling
develop aquaculture infrastructure, and     investments in the Choco region. Total
invest in agroprocessing facilities. Total  cost: $65.3 million.
cost: $382.3 million.                    tCOTE D'IVOIRE:- IDA-$21.8 million. The
tCHINA: IDA-$200 million. The                 first phase of a five-year program designed
productivity of forest resources, the       to support, through improved research and
efficiency of resource use, and the         extension. the generation, dissemination,
institutional capacity for sustainable      and adoption of environmentally sound



124   1994 Regional Perspecfmes
technology required to sustain productivity    GUYANA: IDA-$15 million. By financing a
gains in agriculture. will be supported.   limited capital-investment program, currcnt
Institution-building assistance is included.  levels of sugar production at the Guyana
Cofinancing is anticipated from the CFD   Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO) will be
($5 million), the AfDB ($2.3 million), IFAD  ensured and the operation-of the country's
($1.9 million). the UNDP ($700,000). and  sugar industry stabilized; at the same time,
the AGCD ($500,000). Total cost: $44.6    technical assistance will be provided to
million.                                   help GUYSUCO restructure itself and
COTE D'IVO;RE: IDA-$2.2 million.            prepare for eventual privatization.
Through the rehabilitation and development  Cofinancing is expected from the CDB
of rural savings and loan cooperatives.   ($3 million) and suppliers' credits ($1.9
rural dwellers will be provided with much  million). Total cost: $40.5 million.
needed deposit-safekeeping services and  #tHONDURAS: IDA-$60 million. The
access to short and medium-term financing  government's medium-term Agricultural.
for productive and social expenses, thereby  Sector Modernization and Development
improving rural incomes and living        Program. designed to improve land use,
conditions and reducing poverty.          lay the basis for a sustainable management
Institution-building assistance is included.  of the country's rich forest resources,
Cofinancing is expected from the CFD      eliminate distortions that affect
($6.5 million). CIDA ($3.5 million). and the  smallholder farmers. and help improve
FAC ($2 million). Total cost: $15.8 million.  sector planning and coordination, will be
*ECUADOR: IBRD-$20 million. The             supported. Cofinancing, in the amount of
government will be assisted in undertaking  $50 million, is anticipated from
the process of modernization of the       the IDB.
irrigation subsector through the provision  HONDURAS: IDA-$27.9 million. Funds
of technical assistance (public institutional  from IDA reflows will be provided to
strengthening and reform, private sector  supplement the agriculture-sector
development. and preparation of a public  adjustment credit. approved in fiscal 1994
sector irigation-investment plan). In     in the amount of $60 million (see above).
addition, poor farmers will be helped    t*INDIA: IDA-$258 million. Through
through pilot irrigation projects. Total cost:  support for the water-resource
$25.5 million.                            development program of Haryana state.
tEGYPT: IBRD-$54 million; IDA-S67           agricultural productivity will be enhanced
million. An agriculture-modernization      and environmental sustainability assured;
project will be supported through provision  civil works will also generate employment
of financing and advisory services to      and increase incomes for the landless poor
farmers and rural entrepreneurs,           and marginal farm families. Total cost
development of competition in the rural    $483.4 million.
financial market, and the launching of pilot   t*INDIA: IDA-$77.4 million. About 700.000
efforts in administrative reform and       households of fringe forest dwellers and
institutional development. Total cost:     small farmers, including about 150.000
$268.8 million.                           tribal households, are expected to benefit
f*GHANA: IDA-$21.5 million. Through the     direcdy from a project designed to improve
financing of investments for the benefit of  management and protection of nearly
rural communities (small water schemes,   400,000 hectares of land in Andhra Pradesh
rural markets. market-access roads, storage  state and directly or indirectly increase the
and food-processing facilities) and        production. of wood. nontimber forest
provision of technical assistance by the   products. and animal products. In addition.
local private sector. agricultural production  forest-sector policies will be streamlined
is expected to increase. agricultural      and strengthened so as to reverse the
marketing made more efficient. rural      process of forest degradation. Total cost:
associations strengthened, and vulnerable  $89.1 million.
groups helped through increased income   tINDIA: IDA-$47 million. The capacity of
and food security. Total cost: $25.4       national and state institutions to plan and
million.                                  undertake priority forestry research
GHANA: IDA-$5.7 million. Funds from         programs. to improve the system of
IDA reflows will be provided to           forestry education in research and
supplement the agriculture-sector  -      academic institutions. and to improve the
adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1992  extension of research findings will be
in the amount of $80 million,             strengthened. Total cost: $56A million.



Summaries of Projects Approved   125
tlNDONESIA: IBRD-$165.7 million. Morc        rubber smallholders-the country's largest
than a million farm families are expected to  poverty group-will increase through a
benefit from a project that has been       project that will help finance the second
designed to create the framework for       phase of a rubber-replanting scheme.
integrated water-resources management.     Institution-building assistance is included.
increase rice production on Java. and      Total cost: $253.2 million.
protect existing irrigation infrastructuie  MALI: IDA-$20 million. Finance will be
from deterioration while relieving the     provided to help implement the first six-
government of responsibility for a large   year phase of the Institut d'Economie
number of small irrigation schemes. Total  Rurale's strategic plan for national
cost: $304 million.                        agricultural research. whose principal
t*INDONESIA: IBRD-S65 million. About         objective is to ensure that adequate
32.000 poor Farm families are to benefit   technology will become available to
fromn a project that will further develop  farmers as a means to increase agricultural
twenty reclaimed swampland schemes in      growth and to reverse the decline in the
Sumatera and Kalimantan. Technical         productive capacity of the natural resource
assistance and training are included. Total  base. Cofinancing is expected from USAID
cost: $106 million.                        ($23.3 million). the Netherlands ($13.8
INDONESIA: IBRD-S55 million. The risk        million). France ($3A million). the UNDP
of dam failures will be reduced through the  ($250.000). and Switzerland ($234,000).
establishment of dam-safety institutions.  Total cost: S111.7 million.
the provision of basic safety facilities at  'IMAURITANIA: IDA-518.2 million. The
existing dams where such facilities are    first five-year time slice of a long-term
lacking. and the implementation of         national program to upgrade the provision
remedial works at dams with safety         of agricultural services nationwide.
deficiencies. Total cost: $97.4 million.   focusing on strengthening the linkages
*LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC                     among extension. research. and agriculturat
REPUBLIC: IDA-58.7 million. The            training. will be supported. Total cost:
government will be helped in implementing  $19.8 million.
a new resource-management system. which   'tMEXICO: IBRD-$200 million. Some
concentrates on poor forest dwellers. in   42.00D farmers residing in fourteen
order to better achieve the sustainable    irrigation districts. whose management
management and conservation of the         responsibility was transferred from the
country's forest resources. Cofinancing is  National Water Commission to water-user
anticipated from FINNIDA (S5.6 milion)     organizations. will be assisted in
and the GEF ($5 million). Total cost: $20.3  completing the transfer process. In
million.                                   addition. minor irrigation-network and on-
LA-TVIA: IBRD-$25 million. Private           farm improvements will be financed. Total
agricultural development will be supported  cost: $568.8 million.
by providing initial investment credits to  MOROCCO: IBRD- 5121 million. Selected
new private farmers and for the expansion  investments in the buidget of the Ministry
and technological upgrading of private     of Agriculture will be financed. and
agroindustries and forest-based industries.  reforms designed to improve the efficiency
Technical assistance is included.          of investments or operations in the sector
Cofinancing. totaling $4.9 million. is     will be supported. Cofinancing (SI 13
expected from the PHARE and BlTS.          million) is being provided by. among
Total cost: $45.1 million,                 others. France. Germany. the EU. the
t*LEBANON: IBRD-$57.2 million. Some          AfDB. and IFADI Total cost: $993 million.
34.000 farm families are expected to benefit   *MOROCCO: IBRD-S$00 million. Finance
fiom a project that seeks to increase      will be provided to support the continued
agricultural production and agriculture-   financing of the core activities of the
based income and employment in             National Agricultural Credit Bank as well
previously ncglected poor rural areas      as its diversification into a more universal
through the rehabilitation and adequate    bank. still geared to rural finance (and
operation and maintenance of surface-      thereby the poorer population). but with
irrigation infrastructure. In addition, basic  a broader portfolio and resource base.
public support services will be provided.  Institution-building measures are included.
Total cost: $70.5 million.                 Cotinancing is expected from the OECF
*MALAYSIA: [BRD-$70 million. The            ($95 million). the EIB ($60 million). the
productivity and incomes of about 150.000  AFESD ($60 million). Germany ($34



126  1994 Regonxl Peapectes
million), and the CFD ($30 million). Total  implement policies built up. and its
cost: $ 1.1 50 million.                  capacity to produce reliable information on
tMOROCCO: IBRD-$25 million.                crop and livestock production and
Agricultural production on about 200.000  productivity, as well as on marketing and
farms is expected to increase as a result of  trade, will be strengthened. rationalized.
a project that will provide for technology  and expanded. Total cost: $27.2 million.
transfer to farmers in irrigated as well as  tTUNISIA: IBRD-$1'0 million. Priority
adjacent rainfed areas. support services.  investments-4n water mobilization and use
and promotion of farmer organizations.    efficiency. natural resource conservation.
Technical assistance is included. Total   animal health and production. and land
cost: $34.7 million.                     consolidation-linked to policy reforms
INICARAGUA: IDA-S44 million. Some          through a government-prepared
50.000 small and medium-scale farmers are  development action plan will be supported.
to benefit from a project that seeks to  Institution-building assistance is included.
"jump-start". the agricultural sector by  Total cost: $211 million.
introducing a new demand-driven approach   tVTUNISIA: IBRD-S27.5 million. Living
to technology generation and transfer and  conditions of the population of the
by supporting the required technological  impoverished mountainous northwest
and institutional framework for defining  region will be improved by promoting
and ensuring property rights to land,     measures to increase farm productivity and
Cofinancing ($43 million) is expected from  off-farm income-supporting activities.
the SDC. Total cost: 557.8 million.       implementing watershed and rangeland
POLAND: IBRD-$S46 million. The             management measures. and providing basic
government's program designed to improve  infrastructure and social services.
forest-management practices witl be      Institution-building assistance to the
supported. thereby ensuring the protection  executing agency and village committees
and expansion of the country's forest    is included. Total cost 550.7 million.
ecological capital. providing for social  tUGANDA: IDA-S14 million. The
benefits. and accommodating sustainable  government's strategy to revive cotton
forestry. Cofinancing ($15 million) has been  production and exports through increased
secured from the EIB. while $76.9 nullion  competition in cotton processing and
is being sought from bilateral agencies.  mark-eting and improved supporting
Total cost: S335.4 million.               services will be assisted. Cofinancing
IRUSSIA: IBRD-$-40 million. Critical       ($12.5 million) is anticipated from WFAD.
agricultural support services-focusing on  Total cost $31.A million.
the enabling policy environment for private   f URUGUAY: IBRD-$41 million. A soil and
sector participation in seed and mark-et  wvater-management strategy-focused on
development. a nationwide market-        rehabilitation and development of irrigation/
information system. and farmer information  drainage schemes and related service
and advisory services-will be created and  infrastructure. improvements in the
strengthened. Total cost: $325 miltion.  efficiency of surface and groundwater use.
RUSSIA: IBRD-$50 million. The              establishment of a welt-balanced operation
implementation of the government's land-  and maintenance and capital cost-recovery
reform program witll be assisted through  policy. and support for water and soil
the creation and strengthening of         management and conservation-will be
infrastructure and institutional capacity for  developed and implemented. Technical
land registration. Total cost: $1 t5 million.  assistance is included. Total cost S74
RWANDA: IDA-S15 million. Through           million.
development and implementation of a     t*VIET NAM: IDA-$96 million. The
program of institutional reforms. the     incomes of some 50.000 smallholder farn
quality. relevance. and accountability of  families are expected to increase through
priority agricultural research programs will  provision of supervised credit. extension.
be improved. Cofinancing. totaling $11.5  and plant-protection services supported by
million. is expected from Canada. France.  research. In addition. the first steps toward
Germany. Switzerland. the EU. and IFAD.  encouaging smallholder rubber
Total cost: S36.5 rmllion.                development will be taken by rehabilitating
TANZANIA: IDA-$24.5 million. The           existing state-owned estates. which will
fuxnctions of the Ministry of Agriculture  form the nucleus of the program. Technical
will be rationalized and strengthened. its  assistance is included. Total cost $106.7
institutional capacity to formulate and   million.



Summaries of Projects Appoved  127
Educatian.                                 planning. cofinancing. and project
ALBANIA: IDA-S9.6 million. Damaged and     execution. will be supported. In addition.
dilapidated primary school facilities will be  access to secondary education by the poor
rehabilitated. and the capacity of the   will be increased through implementation
Ministry of Education to stimulate efficient  of a voucher program. Total cost: S150
use of fiscal resources and assure quality-  million.
of learning outcomes strengthened. Total  COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA-S100 million.
cost SI 1.3 million.                     Supplementary finds will be provided to
*BARBADOS: IBRD-S7.8 million. The          help finance the Human Resources
country's human-capital base will be     Development Program. approved in fiscal
solidified and the unemployed and less able  1992. (An amount equivalent to $100
students helped by strengthening the     million on an IBRD loan that was approved
quality and efficiency of basic education:  to help finance the same program has been
improving the effectiveness. efficiency. and  canceled.)
responsiveness of technical and vocational    COTE D'1VOIRE- IDA-S85 miUion. Funds
education: and by reinforcing employment  from IDA reflows-will be provided to help
services and labor-marklet information,  supplement the Human Resources
Total cost: $15.6 million.               Development Program. approved in fiscal
,BENIN: IDA-$18.I million. A third         1992 in the amount of $150 million.
education project seeks to increase the  t*COQE D'lVOIRE: IDA-S17 million. By
access to primary schools. with a specific  supporting governmental efforts in three
emphasis on girls' participation at both [he  areas-training. retraining, and
primary and secondary levels: improve the  apprenticeship: training outreach support:
quality and internal efficiency of primary  and labor-market monitoring and analysis-
and secondary education: and strengthen  and by emphasizing the informal sector and
sector institutional capacity. Total cost:  women's enterprises. labor productivity
S22.9 million.                           and employability wlll be enhanced.
*BRAZIL: IBRD-S206.6 million. The         thereby improving the country's economic
quality of schooling for approximately 3  competitiveness. Total cost: $19-5 million.
million children a year in the first four  INDONESIA: IBRD-S58.9 mullion- The
grades of state and municipal primary    quality of graduate education will be
schools in five nortbeastern states will be  improved through the improved planning
improved. thus contnrbuting to reducing  and management of graduate education and
grade repetition. raising student        university research and support for
achievement. and increasing attainment   selected competitive grant and fiellowship
Total cost: 5366.9 million.              programs. Total cost: S97-6 nuilion
P'BRAZIL: IBRD-S150 million. The quality   INDONESIA: IBRD-$27.7 million.
of schooling for approximately 3 million  Innovative industrial skils-training
primary school children in Minas Gerais  schemes within private enterprises will be
state will be improved through a project  developed and implemented in three
that will support policy improvements.   provinces (West Java. East Java. and
finance educational inputs. and increase  North Sumatera) for possible replication
teachers' access to training opportunities.  elsewhere. and a special training program
Total cost: $302 million.                for unemployed university graduates in
tBRAZIL: IBRD-$96 million. Educational     those provinces, as well as in South
attainment in the state of Paranai as    Sulawesi and Bali. will be supported.
defined by increases in student learning  Institution-building assistance to the
and graduation from primary school. will  Ministry of Manpower is included. Total
be improved through the delivery of a    cost: $39.7 million.
paclage of essential educational inputs to  KENYA: IDA-$42.2 million. Funds from
primary schools and improvements in      IDA reflows will be provided to
educational management Total cost        supplement the education-sector
$198.4 million.                          adjustment credit. approved in fiscal 1992
t*COLOMBIA: IBRD-$90 million,              in the amount of $100 million.
Implementation of the government's higher   t*KENYA: IDA-$2-18 million. The
education strategy. which centers on     potential for employment creation in the
cofinancing educational investments with  informal sector will be increased through a
the departments and municipalities and   project that seeks to diversify and improve
supporting the municipalization of       public and private sector training capacity.
education by building local capacity for  stimulate information exchange and



128  1994 Regional Perspectives
innovation in product development. and    contributions are being explored. Total
develop a new partnership between the     cost: $4.020 million.-
public and private sector guaranteeing the  ROMANIA: IBRD-$50 million. The quality
ftil participation of informal sector     of basic and secondary education will be
entrepreneurs and workers in training and  improved bv strengthening cuniculum and
technology policy. Total cost: S24.2     teacher training. assessment and
million.                                  examinations. and textbook quality. In
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$190              addition. measures to increase efficiency in
million. Policy improvements in science   the management of public resources for
and technology education will be          education will be developed and
implemented. and educational quality in  introduced. Total cost: S73.5 million.
selected private universities and junior  -URUGUAY: IBRD-53 1.5 million. The
technical colleges upgraded through the   quality. equity. and efficiency of the
provision of specialized laboratory and   primary education system will be
workshop equipment. Total cost: $324.8   improved. In addition. the quality of
million.                                  preschool education will be enhanced. as
t*MEXICO: IBRD-5412 million. Primary        well as expanded into areas with
school students' academic achievement     unsatisfied basic needs. Institution-building
levels will be improved and high repetition  measures are included. Total cost 545
and dropout rates reduced in ten of the  mnillion.
country's poorest states through the    r*VENEZUELA: IBRD-$89.4 million. The
training of teachers and school           uzovernment will be assisted in raising the
administrators. provision of classroom-   level of student achievement. reducing the
tested educational materials. and the     incidence of repetition and dropout. and
strengthening of the institutional capacity  increasing graduation rates of basic
of the education svstem. Total cost: $616.7  education through improvements in the
million.                                  quality of education and administrative
-    NEPAL: II)A-520 million. The first     efficiency. particularly in rural and poor
phase of Tnbhuvan University's ongoing    urban areas. Total cost: $178.9 million.
reform process will be supported by     *VlET NAM: IDA-570 million. The Bank's
helping finance the implementation of a   first project in the country since 1973 seeks
package of policy changes. including the  to improve the quality and relevance of
initiation of systemic changes in the     primary education (especially in rural areas
university's administrative. financial, and  and for ethnic minorities), rehabilitate
managemnent processes. Total cost:        existing infrastructure, extend access
$23.1 million.                            through the construction of a limited
*NIGER: IDA-S41.4 million. Sector          number of new classrooms, and strengthen
reforms. designed to promote more cost-  the management of primary education at
effective use of public education resources.    the school. district. provincial. and national
will be supported. and the access to and  levels. Total cost: $78 million.
quality of primary education will be    tYEMEN: IDA-S33 million. Secondary
improved through constructing or          students' learning achievements will be
rehabilitating classrooms. developing and  enhanced through reduction of classroom
implementing a program to accelerate girls'  overcrowding. provision of science
education. improving the quality of primarv  equipment. and improved teacher
school teachers' training programs.       performance: female access to secondary
provision of textbooks. and support for a  education will be increased through
micronutrients program. Cofinancing is    provision of school places for 5.000 girls.
expected from Germany ($10.2 million) and  incentive programs to recruit female
Norway ($4.8 million). Total cost:. S76   headmasters. and specialized home-based
million.                                  learning programs: and two-year post-
t*PAKISTAN: IDA-$-00 million. The         secondary programs. oriented toward
country's broad-based Social Action       labor-marklet needs. will be established.
Program. designed to expand and improve   Cofinancing is expected from the OPEC
primary education. primary health care.   Fund for International Development ($8
family-planning services. and rural water-  million). Total cost: $49-7 million.
supply and sanitation investments, will be
supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from  Environment
the AsDB ($100 million) and the         CHINA: IBRD-S160 million. An investment
Netherlands (S13 million), while other    program of environmentally oriented



Summaries of Projects Approved   129
capital works and related institutional  strengthening and investments in natural
strengthening-designed to provide safe   resource-rehabilitation subprojects. Total
drinking water while improving water      cost: $17.8 million.
quality in the Huangpu river-will be    t*PARAGUAY: IBRD-$50 million. This
financed. Total cost: $456.6 million.     first-phase initiative to alter radically the
THE GAMBIA: IDA-42.6 million.              use of natural resources in agriculture.
Technical assistance will be provided to  particularly by small-scale farmers-from
the National Environment Agency and      extensive expansion to growth through
other relevant agencies to build up the   intensification. with emphasis on
capacity to develop and guide an effective  sustainable resource manrgement and
system for environmental planning and     environmental protection-will be
management and to ensure that            supported. Total cost: $79.1 million.
environmental concerns are fully integrted
and reflected in the country's social and  Fihnacial Sector
economic development process.           ARGENTINA: IBRD-$500 million. Capital-
Cofinancing (S13 million) is expected from  market development will be accelerated
-Germany- Total cost: $4.5 million.       through the introduction and consolidation
,*INDONESLA: IBRD-S56-5 million.           of the necessary capital-markets
Through provision of institutional       infrastructure. which. along with
strengthening measures designed to       developing indigenous skills. can produce a
improve the guidelines and policies of the  sustainable and orderly national market.
national 'regreening and reforestation'  ARGENTINA: IBRD-$8.5 million-
(r&r) program. the introduction of       Technical assistance will be provided to
improved farming systems in a priority    help facilitate the implemenation of the
watershed in West Java, and investment    IBRD-assisted capital-marklet development
support for the national r&r program, the  project (see above) by supporting the
living standards of poor. upland farners  creation of new institutions and the
will be raised. the productive potential of  strengthening of others and by ensuring the
their resource base restored. watershed   development of more effective capital-
environmental quality enhanced. and       mark-et regulations. Total cost: $10.2
downstream watershed resc;rces            million.
protected. Total cost $487.8 million.   CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK:
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-S90               IBRD-$20 million: IDA-St I million.
miHlion. The ability of selected national  Funds will be onlent by the CDB to IBRD
research institutes to identify and       and IDA-eligible Commonwealth Canrbbean
adequately address environmental issues   countries to finance the types of projects
and to undertake environmental research   the World Bank would finance. Total cost:
and development activities will be        $68 million.
strengthened. Institution-building      COLOMBIA: IBRD-$30 million. Wide-
assistance to the Ministry of Environment  ranging improvements in the management
is included. Total cost: $156 million.    of public finances. from revenue generation
MEXICO: S368 mullion. About fifteen        to the evaluation of public policies, will be
subprojects in- five or six cities bordering  made. thereby increasing public revenues.
or. the United States in the areas of water  reestablishing public confidence in
treatment and sanitation. solid waste     government and public administration, and
management. and air quality and urban     contributing to an overall institutional
transport will be financed so as to improve  environment conducive to private-sector
environmental quality. Institutional     initiatives and development. Total cost: $58
strengthening measures are included. Total  million.
cost: $762 million.                     COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA-$1OO million.
MOROCCO: IBRD-$6 million. The              Supplementary funds will be provided to
government will be assisted in strengthening  help finance the Financial Sector
its institutional and regulatory framework  Adjustment Program. approved in fiscal
for managing environmental protection.    1992. (An amount equivalent to $100
Total cost: $10.8 million.                million on an IBRD loan that was approved
tPAKISTAN: IDA-$14.7 million. The first    to help finance the same program has been
phase of a long-term program to improve   canceled.)
Balochistan's environmental protection and   COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA-$50 million.
natural resource management will be      Supplementary funds will be provided to
supported through institutional           help finance the Competitiveness and



130  1994 Regional Perspecthves
Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program.     expected from Belgium. Total cost: $19.3
approved in fiscal 1992. (An amount       million.
equivalent to $50 million on an IBRD loan    #SLOVENIA: IBRD-$8O million. The
that was approved to help finance the same  country's efforts to implement effective
program has been canceled.)               reform of its enterprise and financial
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-I$0O               sectors will be supported by a project that
million. The government's liberalization  seeks to facilitate enterprise privatization
program in the financial sector-designed  and restructuring, accelerate the
to accelerate deregulation of domestic    development of a strong and supportive
financial markets and-increase competition  financial sector, and support more effective
and efficiency of financial intermediation-  labor-market policies and a social safety
will be supported by a project that will  net for the poor. Tcchnical assistance is
channel long-term credits to private      included.
manufacturing enterprises through three  TUNISIA: IBRD-$120 million. Financially
participating financial intermediaries.   sound banks and financial leasing
Training and technical assistance are     companies will be provided access to term
included. Total cost: $250 million.       resources at mark-et rates to finance viable
#MOZAMB[QUE: IDA-$200 million. The          private investments during the current
government's economic and social          transitional period of emerging long-term
rehabilitation program, whose objectives  capital markets.
are to support macroeconomic stabilization    UGANDA: IDA-Sl.l million. Funds from
through the strengthening of kley elements  IDA reflows will be provided to
of fiscal and monetary policy while       supplement the financial sector adjustment
supporting an interlinked program of      credit. approved in fiscal 1993 in the
enterprise and financial sector reform and  amount of $100 million.
continuing income transfers to poor     URUGUAY: IBRD-$35 million. A line of
households. will be supported.            credit will be extended to participating
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$9 million. By              financial intermediaries to finance private
providing training (a) in kley areas of   investment. associated permanent working
central bank activity. (b) to meet the    capital. and leasing operations (excluding
immediate training needs of commercial    purchase of land and housing) of viable
bank staff. and (c) to strengthen legal   enterprises that have revenues
financial capacities. the ability to      predominandy in United States dollars.
implement the government's policy and     Technical assistance is included.
institutional reforms will be enhanced.   Cofinancing ($90 million) is being provided
Institution-building assistance to the    by the IDB.
banking system is included. Cofinancing  ZAMBIA: IDA-$18 million. Standards of
($1 million) is anticipated from the SDC.  accounting, public sector procurement.
Total cost: $10.5 million.                and legal services will be improved by
tRUSSIA: IBRD-$200 million. A financial     strengthening key institutions involved
institutions development project has been  in these three activities through
designed to improve the quality of banking  improvements in their human and material
services. promote banking stability. and  resources. Total cost: $19.6 million.
contribute to a more efficient allocation of    ZAMBIA: IDA-510 million. Supplemental
bank credit by building up the capacity of a  funds will be provided to help finance the
core group of thirty to forty private     second Privatization and Industrial Reform
commercial banks. Cofinancing is expected  Credit. approved in June 1993 in the
from the EBRD ($99 million). the EU ($36  amount of $100 million.
million). Japan ($18.6 million). and USAID
($3.4 million). Total cost: $389.4 million-  Industry
IRWANDA: IDA-$ 12 million. A line of      BANGLADESH: IDA-$247 million.
credit will be made avaitable to finance  Implementation of a program of reforms
productive private sector investments, and  designed to restructure the jute-
a fund will be set up to finance technical  manufacturing industry will be supported.
assistance designed to improve the      BANGLADESH: IDA-$3-3 million. Funds
technical and managerial capacity of      from IDA reflows will be provided to
private sector firms. Institutional       supplement the jute sector-adjustment
strengthening. designed to ensure proper  credit. approved in fiscal 1994 (see above).
implementation of reform measures, is   *COMOROS: IDA-$5.1 million. The
included. Cofinancing (S1 million) is     nascent private sector will be provided



Summaries of Projects Approved  131
with the means and incentives to engage in  measures to arrest and mitigate mining-
productive investments through provision  related environmental degradation.
of finance and technical support to small-  including the upgrading of small-miner
scale entrepreneurs engaged in labor-    technology and management practices.
intensive and/or service activities:     Cofinancing. totaling $8.1 million. is
implementation of improvements in        expected from Swt den and the United
commercial and labor law. as well as legal  Kingdom. Total cost: $24 million.
and judicial procedures: and a
strengthening of investment incentives.  Multisector
Total cost: $7.7 million.               BELARUS: IBRD-$120 million. The
MAURITIUS: IBRD-S7.7 million. Export       government's reform program. designed to
competitiveness. and thereby prospects for  promote competition. support the
sustainable rapid growth. will be enhanced  development of the private sector. and
by facilitating private sector access to  provide a financially sustanable and
know-how for improved productivity.      incentive-compatible social safety net in
quality. design. and response times. as well    order to protect vulnerable groups during
as diversification of export production.  the tansition. witl be supported.
Total cost: $133 million.               BELARUS: IBRD-S8.3 mitlion. The
PHILIPPINES: IBRD-S40 millon. The          government will be assisted in
pmgram to attract private investors to the  strengthening the institutional basis for
Subic Bay Freeport-until November 992    economic reform through provision of
it was the Subic Bay Naval Base-will be  technical assistance in four functional
supported through provision of           areas: resource mobilization and economic
infrastructure improvements: maintenance  management. enterprise reform. banking
of the freeport's asset base, including  sector reform, and social-sector reform.
protection of the environment: and       Total cost Sl8 million.
strengthening the capacity of the freeport's   BOLIVIA: IDA-$9A million. Funds from
managing authority. Total cost $54.1     IDA reflows will be provided to
million.                                 supplement the structural-adjustment
ROMANIA: IBRD-$175 million. Funds will     credit. approved in fiscal 1992 in the
be onlent to private enterprises for     amount of $40 million.
investments aimed at improving          #tBURKINA PASO: IDA-$25 million. The
international competitiveness and/or to  governmenfs reforn efforts following the
expand exports. In addition. partial to full  devaluation of the CFA franc in January
coverage of preshipment finance needs for  1994 will be supportei
imported inputs will be provided. Technical   CAMBODIA: IDA-$62.7.million. Critical
assistance is included. Total cost: $334  imports to enable key sectors of the econ-
million.                                 omy to continue to operate wil be financ-
RUSSIA: IBRD-$200 million. Term finance    ed. Cofinancing ($23 million) is expect-
for capital investments and permanent    ed from SIDA. Total cost: $73.1 million.
working capital will be made available to  #CAMEROON: IDA-575 million. The
commercial banks for onlending to new    government's economic recovery program
private and newly privatized enterprises.  will be supported by this credit. which will
Cofinancing ($100 million) is expected from  finance the imports needed for economic
the EBRD.                                recovery and growth following the recent
ZAMBIA: IDA-$16.8 million. Funds from      devaluation of the CFA franc. while
IDA reflows will be provided to          instituting short-term safety net measures
supplement the privatization and industrial  to protect the poor.
reform credit. approved in fiscal 1992 in  CAMEROON: IDA-$51 million. Funds from
the amount of S200 million.              IDA reflows will be provided to
supplement the structural-adjustment
MininglOther Extiractive                   credit. approved in fiscal 1994. in the
ECUADOR: IBRD-$14 million,                 amount of $50 million (see below).
Implementation of the government's new  CAMEROON: IDA-$50 million. The
mining sector policy and strategy. designed  government's revised stabilization and
to attract private mining investment. will  adjustment program will be supported.
be assisted by financing (a) mapping and  (Concurrently. the third tranche of a $150
mining-information and cadastral systems  million IBRD loan in support of the
to support increased. yet environmentally  govemment's structural-adjustment
sound. mineral production and (b)        program was canceled.)



132  1994 Regional Perspectives
#CHAD: IDA-S20 million. The                components of a market economy- Total
government's post-devaluation reform     cost: $39.5 million.
program. designed to restore order to  #MACEDONIA. FORMER YUGOSLAV
public finances and lay the basis for growth  REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-S40 million:
and the alleviation of poverty. while    IDA-$40 million. Key structural reforms.
instituting measures to protect the most  designed to enable the government to
vulnerable groups. will be supported.    achieve sustainable stabilization and
CONGO: I,A-St100 million. The             restore growth, while protecting vulnerable
government's reform program. designed to  groups through social safety net reforms.
improve public sector efficiency. strengthen  will be supported.
the country's production capacity. develop    MALAWI: IDA-54.3 million. Funds from
human resources. and' reduce poverty. will  IDA reflows will be provided to supplement
be supported.                            the entrepreneurship-development and
#EL SALVADOR: IBRD-1 50 milion. The        drought-recovery project. approved in fiscal
government's structural-adjustment       1992 in the amount of $120 million.
program. designed to lay the analytical  #MALI: IDA-S25 million. The country's
framework for public sector modernization:  post-devaluation reform program. whose
consolidate and deepen reforms supported  main objectives are private sector-led
by a previous structural-adjustment      growfth and the reduction of poverty. will
operation: implement a comprehensive     be supported.
poverty-alleviation plan: and strengthen  MOLDOVA: IBRD-S60 million. Imports of
public expenditures. the civil service. and  essential production inputs and health-care
environmental management. will be        supplies will be financed, foreign exchange
supported.                               will be provided to support the access of
ETHIOPIA: IDA-S470.000. Funds from         enterprises to the foreign-exchange mark-et.
IDA reflows will be provided to          and the social safety net system will be
supplement the structural-adjustment     strengthened. Technical assistance is
credit. approved in fiscal 1993. in the  included.
amount of $250 million.                MONGOLIA: IDA-S20 million. Imports and
#GABON: IBRD-S30 million. Emergency       technical assistance urgently needed to
support will be provided to the          maintain and develop coal and copper
government's program of economic         mining production and the transport sector
recovery that was conceived in the wake of    will be financed. Total cost: $25.4 million.
the devaluation of the CFA franc. Public  #NIGER. IDA-$25 million. The country's
expenditure reallocations towards basic  post-devaluation reform program will be
social service areas. as well as policies to  supported. in particular measures aimed at
eliminate distortions faced by the poor. are  minimizing the negative short-term social
included,                                impact of the devaluation.
GUYANA: IDA-$S2.8 million. Funds from    OCCUPIED TERRITORIES: Trust Fund for
IDA reflows will be provided to          Gaza-$30 million. Priority infrastructural
supplement the second structural-        services in the education. power. water
adjustment credit. approved in fiscal 1990  and sewerage. and roads sectors in Gaza
in the amount of $74.6 million.          will be financed. In addition. technical
KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD-$180 million. The         assistance to help prepare and support
government's reform program will be      implementation of investment activities.
supported by provision of finance for (a)  provide support for the development of
expansion of the country's foreign-      much of the policy framework required to
exchange auction market. which provides  ensure the sustainability of the investment
hard currency to enterprises wishing to  program. and lay the institutional basis
finance imports through normal commercial    for interim self-government will be
practices and (b) essential imports required  provided. Cofinancing. which will support
for the continued operation of essential  components in both Gaza and the
public services and a recovery in critical  West Bank. has been pledged by the
productive sectors.                      AFESD ($30 million). the SFD (S30
KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD-538 million.              million). the KFAED ($1O million).
Critically needed technical assistance will  Denmarkl ($20 million). and the SDC (SS
be provided to help develop ard implement  million).
kIey components of the governu'ment's  #SENEGAL: IDA-525 million. The
reform program, assuring the prompt and  country's post-devaluation reform progam
concerted development of the essential   wilt be supported. in particular measures



Summaries of Projects Approved   133
aimed at minimizing the negative short-   Tartu. and Parnu). thereby reducing fuel
term social impact of the devaluation.    costs and import requirements and
#SIERRA LEONE: lDA-$50 million,             improving environmental conditions in
Government reforms in the areas of trade  affected areas. Capacity-building assistance
and exchange-rate policies. fiscal       is included. Cofinancing will be provided
management. the civil service. the public  by the BITS (S10 million) and the EIB
enterprise sector. and delivery of social  ($4.4 million). while another S3.8 million is
services to the poor will be extended and  being sought. Total cost: S64.5 million.
deepened.                               tETHIOPIA: IDA-$74.3 million. By
SIERRA LEONE: IDA-S190.000. Funds           increasing the availability of fuel from the
from IDA reflows will be provided to      Calub natural gas deposit in the country's
supplement the structural-adjustment      southeast region. Ethiopia's unbalanced
credit. approved in fiscal 1994 in the    structure of energy supply will be partially
amount of $50 million (see above).        righted and the supply of petroleum
#SLOVAK REPUBLIC: IBRD-$80 million.         products needed in the modern sectors of
The government's ongoing reform           the economy increased. Road
program-its central objective is the      rehabilitation, technical assistance. and a
restoration of growth-will be supported   poverty-alleviation component-aimed at
by financing many of the one-time costs   supporting income diversification among
associated with restructuring and the     poor urban fuelwood carriers-is included.
break-up of the Czech and Slovak Federal  Cofinancing is expected from the AfDB
Republic. including social sector reforms  (S27 million) and has been confirmed by
and funding of a social safety net for   the Netherlands (S4 million). Total cost
vulnerable groups.                        $130.8 million.
#UGANDA: IDA-$80 million. The             HUNGARY: IBRD-$100 million. The next
government's economic recovery program.   investment (construction of a gas-fired
designed to bring about rapid and sustained  combined-cycle cogeneration unit) in the
improvements in living standards through  national least-cost power generation-
policy changes. which include increased   investment program. designed to improve
public expenditure allocation toward basic  energy efficiency and environmcntal
social services. wll' be supported through a  conditions at one of the country's most
second structural-adjustment loan.        important power stations and reduce
#ZAMBIA: IDA-S150 miion,                    dependence on fuel imports. will be
Imptementation of the next phase of the   supported Institution-building assistance
country's structural-adjustment program   and training are included. Total cost
will be supported through balance-of-     $242.5 million.
payments financing and support for efforts   JORDAN: IBRD-$80 million. The financial
to (a) restore macroeconomic stability. (b)  viability of the power subsector will be
generate a supply response through the    restored so as to ensure that it can operate
removal of bottlenecks to exports and     on a commercial basis and finance its
agricultural expansion. and (c) remove    investment needs. In addition. the energy
structural obstacles to the delivery of   sector winl be restructured in such a way as
social services.                         to establish an enabling environment for
sustainable sector growth and
Oil and Gas                                 development. Cofinancing ($80 million) is
tCHINA: IBRD-$255 million.                 expected from Japan.
Implementation of the upstream oil and  KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD-I$15.7 million.
gas-sector restructuring will be supported.  Technical assistance will be provided to
and the levels and structure of gas pricing  help the government strengthen the
will be rationalized. In addition. gas field  capacity of key petroleum subsector
development. stimulation. and             agencies to attract foreign investments.
rehabilitation in Sichuan province will be  promote the efficiency and long-term
financed. Institution-building assistance is  financial viability of the petroleum
included. Cofinancing ($10 million) is being  industry. and formulate sound investment
provided by the GEF. Total cost: $945.2   and organizational strategies for the
miDion.                                  integration of domestic primary petroleum
ESTONIA: IBRD-538.4 million.                production. processing. transport. and
Rehabilitation and improvements in district  distribution. Total cost: $19.6 million.
heating systems will be undertaklen in three    LITITUANIA: IBRD-$26.4 million. Two
of the country's five largest cities (Tallin.  thermal power plants will be rehabilitated.



134  1994 Regional Perspectives
and the safety. reliability. and flexibility of  modernized. Institutional strengthening and
the electricity-transmission system       technical assistance. designed to support
improved. Capacity-building assistance is  the petroleum industry's efforts to become
included. Total cost: $32.9 million.      more competitive and cost effective. are
MADAGASCAR: IDA-$51.9 million.              included. Cofinancing ($15 million) is
Governmental reforms in the petroleum     expected from the EIB_ Total cost: $48
sector. which have introduced a           million.
competitive environment and the
involvement of the private sector. will be  Population. Health, and Nutrition
supported. and basic infrastructure     t*ARGENTINA: IBRD-SI1O million. An
investments required to increase          estimated 500.000 poor mothers and young
operational efficiency and attract private  children are expected to benefit directly
operators and investors will be financed.  from a project that seeks to expand and
Institution-building measures are included.  subsequently maintain coverage of good-
Total cost: $79.2 million.                quality basic health care. nutrition. and
MOZALMBIQUE: IDA-530 million. All           child-development services for the poor.
predevelopment work necessary to enable   Total cost: $160 million.
the government and the private sector to  BRAZIL: IBRD-$160 million, It is expected
mak-e a firm decision to develop the Pande  that. based on a conservative model of
gas field to enable gas to be exported    behavioral change. human
(mainly to South Africa) and used         immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections
domestically will be undertaken. Interest in  will be reduced by 300.000 cases as a result
cofinancing (S3 million) has been expressed  of a project designed to reduced the
by Norwav. Total cost $48.7 million.     incidence and transmission of HIVIAIDS
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD- 1 million,         and sexuallv transmitted diseases.
A second project in support of the        Institutional strengthening measures are
country's petroleum sector will help     included. Total cost: $250 million.
strengthen the governmentfs capabilitv in  *BURKINA FASO: IDA-$29.2 million.
policy formulation. safety regulation.    The governmenrs efforts to improve
evaluation of development proposals. and  significantly the quality. coverage. and
monitoring of ongoing sector-development  utilization of basic health services: enhance
programs. thereby enhancing the           the nutritional status of the population: and
attractiveness of the sector to international  develop a national capacity for achieving
investors. Total cost S12.2 million.      sustainable control of endemic parasitic
ROMANIA: IBRD-$175.6 million. The           diseases will be supported. Cofinancing is
governmentfs petroleum-sector             anticipated from Germany ($4. 1 million)
restucturing strategy. designed to promote  and UNICEF (S3.6 million). Total cost
private sector investments, strengthen    $38.9 million.
institutional capabilities. and establish a  t*BURKINA FASO: IDA-$-6-3 million.
suitable regulatory framework to facilitate  The government will be assisted in making
the development of an efficient and       family-planning services more accessible.
commercially oriented petroleum sector.   particularly in rural areas. while at the
will be supported. Cofinancing is expected  same time stimulating the demand for
from the EIB ($51.2 million) and the EU's  contraceptive services. In addition. the
PHARE program ($2 million). Total cost:   spread of HIV infections will be slowed by
S345.6 million.                           promoting behavioral change and treating
RUSSIA: IBRD-$SU0 million. A second oil-    sexually transmitted diseases. Cofinancing
rehabilitation project seeks to slow the rate  is expected from Denmark and Norway ($3
of oil-production decline in Western      million each). Total cost: $34.5 million.
Siberia: transfer international technical.  t *CHAD: IDA-t185 million. Some 75O.000
environmental. and managerial practice to  people. mostly women and children. stand
the operation of oil fields in Western   to benefit directly from a project designed
Siberia: and promote a more efficient and  to increase the efficiency of the health
environmentally sustainable use of the    system with the result that the access to
country's petroleum resources. Total cost:  and quality of health. nutrition. and family
$678 million.                             planning services will be increased and
ZAMBIA: IDA-S30 million. The Tazamna        improved. Technical assistance is included.
pipeline from Dar es Salaam (Tanzania) to  Cofinancing is anticipated from UNICEF
Ndola (Zambia) will be rehabilitated. and  ($Z3 million) and the UNDP ($1.3 million).
the oil-products depot at Ndola           Total cost: $25.7 million.



Summaries of Projecis Approved  135
*CHINA: IDA-SI O million. Through the      migratory communities. Total cost: $103.8
training (and retraining) of health workers  million.
and by improving their working conditions.   *MALAYSIA: IBRD-$50 million. Selected
the quality of service performed by rural  high-priority needs for health-sector
health workers will be improved. thereby  development. including building and
contrbuting to better health among the    equipping health-care centers in three poor
rural population in six provinces. Total  rural areas. strengthening prevention
cost: $186 million.                       programs to meet emerging environmental
t*COMOROS: IDA-S13 million. The             and occupation concerns. improving
development of human resources will be    equitable access to primary health care.
strengthened by increasing the efficiency  introduction of appropriate new health
and effectiveness of basic heatth services  technologies. and institutional
through the establishment of efficient    strengthening. will be addressed. Total
regional health administrations, a social  cost $101.3 million.
development fund for the poor. and other  NEPAL: IDA-$26.7 million. Key
supportive services. In addition.         components of the government's family-
complementary community-development       planning/maternal and child health program
initiatives will be promoted to develop   will be financed. thereby providing support
grassroots participation in small-scale  to efforts to increase contraceptive
productive activities. Total cost: S16    prevalence. decrease the total fertility rate.
million.                                  reduce maternal and child morbidity and
*COSTA RICA: IBRD-52) million. The          mortality. and raise life expectancy. Total
government's effort to implement critical  cost $39 million.
policy, institutional. and operational  *NICARAGUA: IDA-S15 million. Reforms
reforns that aim at improving the         in the health sector, which focus on
efficiency. effectiveness, and quality of the  decentralization of services. enhancement
delivery of health-care services by the   of primary care. strengthening the supply
Costa Rican Social Security System-       and distribution of drugs. rehabilitation of
especialiv to the poorer population-and at  facilities, and greater cost recovery at the
improving quality control and surveillance  secondary level. will be supported.
in the health sector. will be supported.  Cofinancing is anticipated from Norway ($3
Total cost: $32 million.                  miilion). Total cost $20.1 million.
t*G`INEA: IDA-$24.6 nillion. The          t*PERU: IBRD-S34 million. The health and
coverage of low-cost health, nutrition, and  nutritional status of residents (poor women
family-planning services will be expanded.  and children in particular) living in three
thereby helping improve the health status  poor regions of the country. as well as one
of the population-in particular. the most  of Lima's poorest districts. is expected to
vulnerable groups. Institution-building  improve through extending access and
assistance is included. Total cost: $273  improving the quality of maternal and child
miilion.                                  health and nutrition services and through
t*INDIA: IDA-SI 17.8 million. The qualitv   promotion of better health and nutrition
of cataract surgery will be upgraded. the  practices. Total cost: $44.5 million.
coverage of the National Program for the  t*UGANDA: IDA-S50 million. Attempts
Control of Blindness will be expanded to  will be made to (a) prevent further sexual
underprivileged areas (with special       transmission of the HIV through promotion
attention to women, tribal, and other     of safer sexual behavior. increased condom
isolated groups). cataract prevalence     availability and usage. and provision of
reduced by more than 50 percent. and      care and treatment of sexually transmitted
blindness incidence cut by more than 30   diseases: and (b) mitigate the personal
percent in the states of Maharashtra.     irnpact of the AIDS epidemic through the
Rajasthan. Uttar Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh.  financing of drugs, protective supplies. and
Madhya Pradesh. Orissa. and Tamil Nadu.   health-care services. Institution-building
Total cost: $135.7 million.               assistance is included. Cofinancing is
t*INDIA:j IDA-S88.6 million. The family-    anticipated from Germany ($6.8 million).
welfare programs in the states of Assam.  SIDA ($5 million), and the ODA ($4.2
Rajasthan. and Karnataka will be          million). Total cost: $73.4 rmillion.
strengthened and improved, and the
current levels of fertility and maternal and    Power
childhood mortality lowered through     tCHINA: IBRD-$350 million. Through the
targeting poor areas and tnbal and        construction of a coal-fired thermal power



136  1994 RegIbnal PerspecHlves
plant. the erection of new transmission   of the power shortagc-caused by the
lines. and the reinforcemcnt or the existing  recent drought-and facilitating economic
power-transmission network. the critically  recovery. Technical assistance and training
needed power-generation capability of     are included. Total cost: $200.3 million.
Jiangsu province and the East China power
grid as a whole will be greatly increased.  Public-sector Management
Technical assistance and training are   BENIN: IDA-$5.2 million. Economic
included. Cofinancing ($120 million) is   management capacity in the country will be
being provided through an ECO involving   improved through support to the
the commercial bank market and the        management of a national training cenier.
Japanese insurance-company market. Total  technical assistance to the Ministry of
cost: $1.081.4 million.                   Planning and Ministry of Finance, and
tINDONESlA: IBRD-$260.5 million.            provision of studies and short-term
Efforts to increase private sector        expertise in support of adjustment
participation in electricity generation and  implementation. Corinancing is expected
to restructure the state electricity company  from DANIDA ($4 million) and the ACBF
(PLN) and establish it as a commercial    ($2 million). Total cost: $12 million.
entity will be supported. In addition.  CAPE VERDE: 1DA-$8.l million. The
environmentally sustainable expansion of  government's broad effort to transform and
PLN's electricity-generation and          modernize key institutions. the laws
transmission capacity will be financed.   supporting them. and the personnel staffing
Cofinancing ($23.7 million) is anticipated  them will be supported by a project that
friom Austria and Australia and from export    seecs to modernize the civil service. build
credits ($92 million). Total cost: $688.9  local capacity, strengthen economic
million.            -management capacity. reform and
PAKISTAN: IBRD-$230 million. The            modernize the justice system, and spur
investment program of the Water and       public procurement reforms. Total cost:
Power Development Authority (WAPDA)       $8.9 million.
will be supported. and the stage will be set    EL SALVADOR: IBRD-$2.5 million. The
for a gradual 4nd orderly privatization of  country's adjustment process will be
the power sector in general and WAPDA in  deepened through the provision of
particular. Total cost: $4.470 rmillion.  technical and financial support to the
tPHILIPPINES: IBRD-$227 million. The        institutions in charge of the economic
rapidly increasing demand for power in    reform program. Cofinancing is expected
Luzon will be met through the             from USAID. the UNDP. and the IDB.
development of a geothermal energy field  Total cost: $6.3 million.
in the Eastern Visayas that will expand  HUNGARY: IBRD-S29 million. Through a
power plant capacity from 200 mW to 640   program of institutional development.
mW and the construction of related        development and implementation of a new
transmission systems that will interconnect  information-technology system. and
most of the country. Institution-         training in the development and use of
strengthening measures are included.      applications systems. the country's tax
Cofinancing is expected from the JExIm    administration will be strengthened.
($170 million). the BITS ($39 million). the  thereby maximizing tax revenues in a
GEF ($30 million). and an ECO to support  sustainable way. Total cost: $55.6 million.
commercial financing of $100 million for  JAMAICA: IBRD-$35 million. Through the
the project's high-voltage ACJDC converter  design of measures to improve the
stations. Total cost: $1,333.6 million.   country's export-support systems and
tPHILIPPINES: IBRD-$21 1 million. The       financial sector support for investment and
rapidly increasing demand for power in    trade finance. the investment and export-
Cebu and the Visayas region will be met   development process will be accelerated
through the use of indigenous and         during the last major phase of trade
environmentally superior geothermal       liberalization in Jamaica. and constmints to
energy. Institution-building assistance is  local long-term sources of funds will be
included. Total cost: $458.9 million.     addressed. Total cost: $52 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD-$90 million. The           JAMAICA: IBRD-$13.2 million. A tax-
perfonnance and reliability of the Hwange  administration reform project seeks to raise
coal-fired power station. the country's   revenues without increasing tax rates
largest generating station, will be       through a broadening of the tax base.
increased. thereby minimizing the severity  improving the efficiency and effectiveness



Summodes of Prolects Approved   137
ol' the lax udministrttion. and           PAKIST'AN: IDA-$46.8 million. Physical
encouragemeni of improved voluntary         investments that deal with some or the
compliance. Total cost: $42 million.       nmost urgent environmental and
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: IDA-S60 million.            inl'rastructure problems in Karachi and
Implementation of enterprise privatization  three interior cities in Sindh province will
and restructuring will be accelerated, and  be financed. Institution-building measures,
ellons to stimulate private sector         as well as the preparation of engineering
development. improve cntcrprise            studies for future investments. are
govcrnunce and cfticiency. and advance     included. Total cost: $58.6 million.
banking sector rerorms supported.        tTURKEY: IBRD-$l00 million. The
LEBANON: IBRD-$19.9 million.                 dcvelopment of the country's dynamic
Government efforts to enhance revenues     private sector will be furthered through the
and strengthen fiscal management will be   provision or assistance for an accelerated
supported through a project whose main     privatization process. Measures will also
focus is on (a) filling the immediate gaps in  be financed to alleviate the impacI Of slatc-
key personnel, skills, cquipment. and      owned enterprise downsizing and
physical resources: (b) assisting in       divestiture on displaced worklers and their
improving systems. procedures, and data    families. Total cost: $129 million.
bases: and (c) providing advice on future  UZBEKISTAN: IBRD-$21 million.
policy reforms. Corinancing is expected    Institution-building and technical assistance
from the UNDP ($! million) and the IMF     activities in the areas or privatization and
($660.000). Total cost: $23.6 million.     public enterprise reform, the legal and
LESOTHO: IDA-$II million. Technical          regulatory framework-, the financial sector.
assistance will be supplied in support of  social safety net/employme,it, and the
the government's privatization and private  energy and telecommunications sectors will
sector development efforts. Total cost;    be financed. Cofinancing is anticipated
$12.4 million.                             from the EU ($2.6 million) and Japan ($1
MALAWI: IDA-$22.6 million. Specific          million). Tota; cost: $25 million.
systemic management issues that now
constitute bottlenecks to efficiency and  Social Sector
effectiveness in the civil service will be  *ALBANIA: IDA-$5.5 million. The
addressed through the provision of         government will be assisted in reforming its
technical assistance and training. Total   systems of social protection of the
cost: $25.6 million.                       vulnerable. while, at the same time.
MAURITANIA: IDA-SI.3 million. Funds          configuring them in ways that make them
from IDA reflows will be provided to       compatible with a market-oriented
supplement the public enterprise-sector    economy. Total cost: $6.2 million.
adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1990  *ALBANIA: IDA-$5.4 million. The
in the amount of $40 million.              government's labor market-development
NICARAGUA: IDA-$60 million. The              program. designed to meet the needs of the
government's structural-adjustment          unemployed and facilitate their return to
program. which aims to carry out a major   employment, will be supported through the
reform of the state. increase the efficiency  provision of technical assistance.
of financial intermediation. and improve   fellowships and training. and training
conditions for private sector development.  materials ard equipment. Total cost: $6
will be supported.                          million.
NICARAGUA: IDA-$7.6 million. Funds         t*ECUADOR: IBRD-$30 million.
from IDA reflows will be provided to       Substantial immediate and longer-term
supplement the second economic recovery    benefits will be generated for the poor
credit. approved in fiscal 1994 (see above).  through more than 2.700 subprojects
#PAKISTAN: IBRD-S150 million: IDA-           expected to 'oe financed by the Emergency
$100 million. The government's reform      Social Investment Fund (FlSE) that will
program. which aims at building a sound    provide basic social and physical
and sustainable macroeconomic framework,   infrastructu:e, social services, and training.
privatization of certain public enterprises, a  Cofinancing is expected from the IDB ($30
restructuring of the composition of public  million). USAID ($4.5 million). Spain
expenditures. continuation of a program of  ($800.000). the UNDP ($100.000). and
trade reform. and reallocation of public    UNICEF ($100,000). while another $20.7
expenditures in favor of social services.  million is being sought. Total cost: $120
will be supported.                         million.



138  i994 Regional Perspectives
t*LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC                    million). which will be mobilized with the
REPUBLIC: IDA-$9.7 million. About          support of the Bank's ECO guarantee.
50.000 poor pcople living in Luang         Total cost: $223 million.
Namtha. onc ol' the country's poorcst    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: IDA-$18 million.
provinces. will benefit from a rural       The government will be assisted in making
infrastructure project that will provide   priority replacement/expansion investments
improved access to mark-es and schools,    in telecommunications in such as way as to
as well as better water quality and        best facilitate the country's economic
sanitation services. Technical assistance  growth and improve service quality.
and training are included. Total cost: $10.2  Institution-buiiding assistance is included.
million.                                   Cofinancing is expected from the EBRD
t*PERU: IBRD-$100 million. Community-        ($8 million). Total cost: $31 million.
based projects in the areas of social    SLOVAK REPUBLIC: IBRD-$55 million.
assistance, social and economic            International and national long distance
infrastructure. and credits to small-scale  telephone networks will be expanded and
farmers and entrepreneurs-all managed by   strengthened so as to relieve congested
the National Fund for Social Compensation  services and provide modem telecom
and Development (FONCODES)-will be         services to businesses. Institution-building
supported. thus helping to sustain the     assistance is included. Cofinancing is
governments poverty-reduction efforts and  expected from the EIB ($55.3 million). the
mitigate the social costs of adjustmnent.  EBRD ($5S million). and export credits
Cofinancing is expected from the IDB       ($66.2 million). Total cost: $462.3 million.
($100 million) and others ($53 millio) T,
including Germany. Total cost: $495      Tourism
million.                                 *BELIZE: IBRD-$20 million. The first
Te-ecommunicatiozus                          phase of a seven-year infrastructure-
Telecommunications                           development program for Belize City-
CHINA: IBRD-$27o million. Reforms,           representing a minimal critical mass of
designed to develop a modern, commercial   activities in the street network (including
telecommunications sector that will evolve  traffic management and control). drainage
increasingly toward allocation of resources  system (including canals and creeks). and
on the basis oF competitive market forces.  coastal protection works. which will
will be supported. In addition, some       significantly benefit the poorer population-
investments in modern technology for       will be financed. Total cost: $23 million.
fiber-optic long distance links and local
digital switching in three provinces will be    Transportation
financed. Cofinancing ($1.3 million) is  tBANGLADESH: IDA-$200 million. The
expected from the BITS. Total cost: $623   east and west parts of the country,
million.                                   separated by the Jamuna river, will be
CZECH REPUBLIC: IBRD-$80 million.            connected for the first time by the
International and national long distance   construction of a 4.8-kilometer-long bridge,
telephone networks will be expanded and    thereby stimulating economic growth by
strengthened so as to relieve congested    facilitating interregional. cross-river
services and provide modern telecom        transport of passengers. freight. and
services to businesses. Institution-building  transmission of electricity more
assistance is included. Cofinancing is     economically and efficiently. Cofinancing is
expected from the EBRD and the EIB ($80    anticipated from the AsDB and the OECF
million each) and in the form of export    ($200 million each). Total cost: $696
credits. Total cost: $891.5 million.       million.
JORDAN: IBRD-$20 million. The capacity    tBANGLADESH: IDA-$ 146.8 million. The
of the country's telecommunications        total cost of road transport on the
system will almost be doubled (to as many  country's most travelled roads will be
as 570.000 lines). and support provided to  reduced by improving the road network
the government in formulating and          through more effective planning. design.
implementing reforms leading to sector     and construction (including reconstruction)
development and the private provision of   of road investments and more effective
services. Cofinancing is anticipated from  programming and implementation of road
the EIB ($30 million). the JExIm ($23      maintenance. Cofinancing ($8.8 million) is
million). the ODA ($6 million), the BITS   expected from the ODA. Total cost: $252.2
($4 million). and commercial sources ($50  million.



Summades of Projecis Approved   139
BRAZIL: IBRD-$220 million. Road-            and provincial roads and by expanding the
program management in the states of       capacity of the road network. Institutional
Maranhao. Piauf. and Tocantins will be    strengthening measures are included. Total
strengthened-with a view to avoiding      cost: $680.5 million.
further deterioration of the important  INDONESIA: IBRD-$l0l.5 million. Access
public assets that the paved road networks  to commercial mark-ets for the agriculture-
represent-through more efficient          dependent rural population will be
allocation of resources to maintenance and  improved by enhancing the capacity of
their etfective management. Total cost:   government agencies that manage the
$602.8 million.                           development of rural-district roads and by
tCHINA: IBRD-$380 million. Transport        improving the quality and capacity of the
congestion will be relieved and the      rmad network in selected rural districts.
integration of interregional commerce     Total cost: $206.8 million.
improved through the construction of 340  KAZAKHSTAN: IBRD-$40 million. Public
kilometers of the national trunk highway  transport service in the countrv's three
system in the principal north-south       main cities will be restored to adequate
corridor. In addition. fourteen provincial  levels of service quality. and key
highways interconnecting with the national  improvements in urban public transport-
highway will be upgraded. Technical       sector policies and institutions will be
assistance and training are included. Total  implemented. Technical assistance and
cost: S894.7 million.                     training are included. Cofinancing
tCHINA: -IBRD-SI50 million. A second        ($600.000) is expected from the EU. Total
Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project   cost: $42.4 million.
will help finance construction of about  LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
twenty-two kilometers of a four-lane      REPUBLIC: IDA-530 million. The
expressway around the city.               efficiency of the country's road network
implementation of traffic-management and  will be increased through specific road
traffic-safety measures. and investments in  improvements and through strengthening of
public transport. Technical assistance is  institutional capabilities to plan. manage.
included- Total cost: $657.1 million.     and maintain the national highway
CHINA: IBRD-S140 million. The continued     network. Total cost: $33.7 million.
development of road infrastructure in   MADAGASCARL IDA-$13.1 million.
Fujian province will be supported. and an  Facilities damaged by two cyclones in
action plan for the strengthening of the  early 1994. including several major roads
provincial road-construction industry     that represent lifelines to the poorer
developed. Technical assistance and       regions. will be rebuilt. and measures to
training are included. Total cost: $528.8  minimize potential damage from future
million.                                  cyclones will be strengthened. Total cost:
ESTONIA: IBRD-$12 million. A two-year       $28.8 million.-
program of urgently needed highway-     tMALI: IDA-S65 million. The government
maintenance work will be financed.        will be supported in its efforts to
thereby avoiding costly rehabilitation or  strengthen transport-sector management
reconstruction at a later date. In addition.  and performance. restructure transport-
the efficiency of the country's road-     sector parastatals. modify the regulatory
maintenance operations will be improved,  and institutional framework to promote
Cofinancing. totaling $2 million. is      increased private sector involvement in the
expected from Denmark. Finland. and       provision of services and the execution of
Sweden. Total cost: $25 million.          works. and rehabilitate and maintain a
INDIA: IBRD-S94 million. An enabling        priority network of transport infrastructure.
environment for container transport will be  Cofinancing is expected from the IsDB
esLablished. and the capacity and efficiency  ($53.6 million). the EDF ($50 million).
of long-haul transport of high-value general  Germany ($19.8 million). France ($17.9
cargo increased. Cofinancing (S4 million) is  million). the ADF ($14.3 million). BOAD
expected from the Netherlands. Total cost:    ($10.7 million). Canada (S7.1 million). and
$151 million.                             the OPEC Fund for International
tINDONESIA: IBRD-$350 million.              Development (amount to be determined).
Problems caused by the rapid growth in    Total cost: $305.7 million.
road traffic will be eased and road-    MONGOLIA: IDA-$30 million. Key
transport system costs reduced by         constraints in the transport sector will be
improving the service quality of national  addressed. in particular. by reversing the



140  1994 Regional Perspectives
decline of the quality and quantity of  RUSSIA: IBRD-S300 million. About 1.500
transport services in railways. urban     kilometers of priority federal roads will be
transport. trucking. and roads. Institution-  rehabilitated. maintenance and road-safety
building assistance is included. Total cost:  improvements will be carried out on about
$36.7 million.  -9.500 kilometers of federal roads and 500
t*MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-5188 million. Road        kilometers of regional roads. and the
transport will be improved. selected past  commercialization and privatization of the
road investments protected, and           road-construction industry will be
employment opportunities for the rural    promoted. Technical assistance. training-
poor created through civil work-s programs  and studies are included. Cofinancing ($5
to rehabilitate priority roads and eliminate  million) is expected from the United States
the huge back-log of periodic maintenance.  Federal Highway Administration. Total
Capacity-building assistance is included.  cost: $340 million.
Cofinancing is anticipated from the EU  SENEGAL: IDA-53.7 million. Funds from
($97.9 million). the AfDB ($83.4 million).  IDA reflows will be provided to
USAID ($25 mitlion). the CFD/South        supplement the transport-sector adjustment
Africa ($17 million). BADEA ($14.9        credit, approved in fiscal 1991 in the
million). the KFAED ($14 million). and    amount of $65 million.
Germany ($9 million). Total cost: $814.6  tTANZANIA: IDA-$170.2 mriillion. Support
million.                                  will be provided for policy anid institutional
tNEPAL: IDA.-$505 million. Through a        reforms to improve tran-port-sector
program of road maintenance and           administration. organization. and
rehabilitation. vehicle-operating costs and  management: upgrading, rehabilitation. and
delays associated with a deteriorated road  backlog periodic maintenance of high-
system will be reduced. and much-needed   priority roads: measures to rehabilitate and.
rural employment will be generated.       improve rura transport infrastructure: and
Institutional strengthening assistance is  minimum civil aviation investments to
included. Cofinancing is expected from the  ensure safety and continued scrvice.
ODA ($12.4 million). the SDC ($2.8        Cofinancing is anticipated from the EU
million), and the UNDP ((78.1 million). the AfDB ($108.9 million).
cost: $81.1 million.                      NORAD ($41.7 million), the OPEC Fund
PANAMA: IBRD-$60 million. Transport         for International Development (S38.3
efficiency will be improved and transport  million). the OECF ($19.8 million). the
costs reduced throughout the country as a  KFAED ($14.9 million). FINNIDA ($5A
result of a roads-rehabilitation project that  million). and the SDC (S5.1 million). Total
will finance a four-year time-slice of the  cost: $650.3 million.
government's publicly financed road     UGANDA: IDA-S75 million. The
program. Cofinancing (S$S0 million) is    government's economic recovery program
being provided by the 1DB. Total cost:    will be supported by improving the basic
$406 mitlion,                             road infrastructure and by ensuring that it.
tPARAGUAY: IBRD-$65 million. Almost         along with the railferry infrastructure. will
200 kilometers of roads will be either    be well maintained and efficiently
improved or rehabilitated. and. through   managed. Cofinancing ($4.6 million) is
provision of institution-building assistance.  anticipated from the NDF. Total cost: $99
the capacity of the Ministry of Public    million.
Works and Communications to deliver a    tVENEZUELA: IBRD-$l00 million. By
good-quality. well-managed road network   improving and strengthening national and
will be improved. Total cost: $90 million,  local institutions engaged in the planning.
PERU: IBRD-S150 million. The                financing. design. and operation of urban
rehabilitation of 725 kilometers of main  transport systems. the quality and efficiency
highways. as well as of railway facilities.  of urban transport in Venezuelan cities will
will be supported. and new initiatives in  be improved. Total cost: $200 million.
the areas of road maintenance. trafic   tVIET NAM: IDA-$1585 million. Two
safety. and nonmotorized transport will be  critical segments (totaling 430 kilometers)
undertaken. In addition. the process of   of the country's main highwav will be
railway privatization will be accelerated.  rehabilitated. ferry operations improved at
Cofinancing is anticipated from Gennany   two MeLong delta crossings. and highway-
($38 million) and the OPEC Fund for       maintenance capacity strengthened through
International Development ($5 million).   the provision of technical assistance and
Total cost: $242 million,                 equipment. Total cost: $176 million.



Summares of Projects Approved   141
Urban Development                           from the OPEC Fund for International
ALBANIA: IDA-SI5 million. To help           Development and the EDF. Total cost:
develop critical first steps in developing a  S20.4 million.
marklet-based housing sector. the        CHILE: IBRD-$l0 million. Reforms that
completion of construction or 4.500        will increase the resources and
apartments-originally intended as public  responsibilities being transferred to
rental units but which will now be sold to  maunicipalities and regions will be
individual households under mortgage and  supported through a pilot project that seeks
condominium arrangements-will be           to increase the institutional and technical
financed. Cofinancing ($1.5 million) is   capacity of municipal governments to
expected from bilateral agencies. USAID    assume greater responsibilities and to
in particular. Total cost: $40 million.   improve the national govemmentfs
t*ARMEN[A: IDA-$2S8 million. Funds will     capacitv to accomplish its main
be provided to help finance reconstruction  macroeconomic goals at the municipal
of housing. infrastructure. and factory   level. Total cost: $20 million.
shells in the area destroyed by the 1988  CROATIA: IBRD-SI28 million. Some or the
earthquake: a plan for the further         conditions necessary for restoring
reconstruction of the earthquak-e zone will  productivity following war-related
be developed: and reform of housing-sector  destruction will be reestablished through
policies designed to promote the transition  reconstruction of basic infrastruciure. the
to a mark-et-oriented economy will be      replacement of vital agricultural assets. and
supported. Vulnerable groups will be given  by removing a major constraint to the
priority in the allocation of apartments.  rcsumption of normal tourism levels. In
Cofinancing (S400.000) is being provided by  addition. a return of displaced households
Japan. Total cost $46 million.             to their communities will be made possible
t BOLIVLA: IDA-S42 million. The              through the reconstruction of housing and
government's efforts to strengthen         provision of supporting infrastructure.
municipal management and improve the      Total cost: $205.3 million.
delivery of urban services will be       t'THE GAMBIA: IDA-$l t million-
supported through a project that aims at   Unemployment will be reduced by creating
enhancing the capabilities of municipalities.    temporary jobs for unsktilled workers in the
local utilities. and service enterprises:  public works and construction sectors.
strengthening financial intermediation in  thereby maintaining infrastructure assets
the sector. and encouraging the financing  that might disappear for lack of
of municipal infrastructure in unserviced  maintenance due to financial constraints.
peri-urban areas. Total cost: $58 million.  Local capacity building. fumished through
tBRAZIL: IBRD-SI50 million. Municipal       provision of training and technical support
financial management in Minas Gerais state  for small and medium-sized firms, is
will be strengthened through technical    included. Cofinancing. in the amount of v2
assistance and training. while             million. is being explored with DANIDA.
environmental management will be          the EDF. the JICA. the UtNDP. and
improved through the development of a      USAID. Total cost: S145 million.
coherent state strategy for local provision  GHANA: IDA-S38.5 million. Infrastructure
of water and sewerage services, investment  and services-roads. drainage. sanitation.
in priority basic sanitation infrastructure.  gearbage collection and disposal. bus parks.
and technical assistance and training. Total  and public markets-will be improved in
cost: $333.1 million.                      eleven secondary cities. thus improving
t*CHAD: IDA-S17.4 million. Existin,          living conditions for their more than 500.000
infrastructure will be protected from     residents. Institutional strengthening of the
further decay through a maintenance and   eleven local governments involved is
rehabilitation program. and additional    included. thereby furthering the
urgently needed social infrastructure.    government's decentralization effons.
identified and maintained by the          Cofinancing ($8.3 million) is expected from
beneficiaries. will be developed. In      Germany. Total cost: $55.5 million.
addition. labor-intensive public service  tINDIA: IDA-S246 million. The government
schemes will generate employment          of Maharashtra's rehabilitation program for
opportunities. and training and technical  the victims of the September 1993
support will be provided to small and     earthquake. which ktilled an estimated
medium-sized enterprises and beneficiaries.  8.000 people and destroyed or damaged
Cofinancing (S2 million) is being sought   more than 130.000 hom-es. will be



142  1994 Regionl Perspecties
supported. Cofinancing is expected from  Water Supply and Sewerage
the United Kingdom (fl(l million) and the  ALBANIA: IDA-S1 1.6 million. Water
AsDB (S600.000). Total cost: $328 miltion,  shortages nnd associated health risks to the
"t*INDONESIA: IBRD-S175 million,             population in the district of Durres will be
Services and the quality of life for about  eliminated, and a strong local institutional
600.000 of Surabava's inhabitants-         framework for the provision of water
especially those living in the poorer areas-  supply and sewverage services established.
will improve through a project that will  thereby ensuring that the improvements
provide water-supply. sanitation. and      will be sustainable. Total cost: $19.5
drainage improvements: and construction    million.
of access roads and paths. The           ALGERIA: IBRD-SI 10 million. Water-
implementation of a land-management        supply systems in ten cities and twenty-
program and provision of technical         four sewvage-treatment plants located
assistance is included. Cofinancing ($I74.8  throughout the country will be
million) is anticipated from the OECT.     rehabilitated. In addition. the institutional
Total cost: $617.6 million.                arrangements in the urban water sector ill
'*IlNDONESIA: IBRD-5174 million. The        be rationalized with a view to achievint
inhabitants of Semarang and Surak-arta.    full cost recovery by autonomous. self-
and disproportionately the poorer         financing utilities. Total cost: S170 million.
inhabitants. will benefit directly from  tBENIN: IDA-S9.8 million. Rural water-
improvements to the quality. reliability.  supply and sanitation facilities will be built
and accessibility of urban infrastructure  in smaller and poorer communities.
services. In addition. technical assistance  hygiene education provided to communities
will be provided for implementation        interested in improving their w%ater supply
support and a strengthening of institutional  and sanitation facilities. and capacity
capacity. Total cost: $320.8 million.      building provided to all actors in the sector
tMADAGASCAR: IDA-S18.3 million. A           who will need to acquire new sklills in
tested model for the efficient contracting-  promoting. planning constructing.
out of infrastructure maintenance will be  managing. and monitoring rural water
created for. and implemented in.           supply and sanitation facilities. Corinancing
Antananarivo. resulting in the rehabilitation  ($4 million) is anticipated from Denmark.
of about 300 klilometers of essential urban  Total cost: S15 million.
roads and creating about 70.000          t*BRAZIL: IBRD-S154 million. The quality
manmonths ofjobs. In addition. domestic    of life for about 1.2 million urban
small and medium-sized construction and    inhabitants of Espirito Santo state (and
engineering enterprises will be developed.  et, ecially for some of the poorest
Cofinancing ($200.000) is anticipated frorn  inhabitants) will be improved. the.
the FAC. Total cost: $20.1 million.        incidence of waterborne disease reduced.
,MEXICO: IBRD-5200 million. Solid waste     and the quality of water for human
services will be improvcd for an estimated  consumption and recreational uses
II million people in the twenty-three cities  improved through a project that will help
that are expected to participate on a first-  finance the state water cornpany's 1994-99
come. first-served basis. Institution-     investment program. Institution-building
strengthening measures-at the federal and  assistance is included. Total cost: $308
local government levels and for operating  million.
agencies-are included. Total cost: $415.5  BULGARIA: IBRD-598 million. The
million.                                   autonomy and commercial orientation of
.t*TOGO: IDA-S26.2 million.                  the countnr"s twenty-nine regional w ater
Implementation of the government's         and sewerage companies will be increased.
emerging urban development policy will be  and their management made more
supported through the execution of prioritv  accountable to local authorities. In
urban works through labor-intensive        addition. selected water and sewerage
schemes that focus on poor areas. the      facilities will be rehabilitated and upgraded.
promotion of small contractors in the      Total cost: $131 million.
construction sector. and the active      t*GHANA: IDA-S"2 million. Basic water
participation of local residents. community  and sanitation infrastructure will be
groups. and NGOs in neighborhood           provided to communities. schools. and
environmental improvement activities,      health clinics. while health and the
Capacity-building assistance is included;  environment will be enhanced through the
Total cost: S29 million,                  improvement of drinking-water quality.



Summaries of Projects Apptoved   143
personal hygiene. and excreta disposal.    waler utilities, is included. Total cost: $770
Institution building-with a focus on       million.
poverty reduction and women's           *MOROCCO: IBRD-$160 million. Urban
participation-is included. Cofinancing     water-supply systems operated by six of
($1.7 million) is expected from Canada.   the country's sixteen municipally owned
Total cost: $27 million.                   water-distribution facilities (r6ggies) will
GUYANA: IDA-$17.5 million. The quality       either be rehabilitated or expanded. thus
and reliability of potable water in selected  providing access to safe water for some 9.6
regions of the country will be improved    million people. Rural water-supply facilities
through the upgrading of wvater-supply     will also be rehabilitated and expanded.
facilities. and the efficiency of water-sector  especially in poor areas of the country.
institutions will be enhanced through      directly benefiting 3 million people.
establishment of procedures and methods    Institution-building assistance is included.
for ensuring proper system operations and  Cofinancing. totaling $84 million. is
maintenance. Cofinancing is anticipated    expected from the OECF and the AfDB.
from the CDB ($6.5 million) and the ODA    Total cost: $353.6 million.
($6 million). Total cost: $33 million.   t*UGANDA: IDA-$42.3 million. By
MEXICO: IBRD-$350 million. A second          extending the rehabilitation and expansion
water supply and sanitation sector project  of water supply and sanitation facilities in
is expected to benefit 10 million people   eleven small (and two larger) towns, health
directly by helping control cholera and    conditions will be improved. poverty
reducing significantly other gastrointestinal  reduced. the lot of women improved, and
diseases. Technical assistance to          environmental degradation reduced. Total
strengthen federal agencies, as well as local  cost: $48 million.



144     1994 Regional Pemspecfives
Table 5-20. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1994, by
Region and Country
(amounts in millions of US dollarsl
IBRD loans              IDA credits                Total
Region and country                             Number    Anount    Number    Amount    Number    Armount
Africa
Benin ............................             -             -          4          42.8         4           42.8
Burkina Faso .....................             -             -    -     3            05         3           80.5
Cameroon ........................              -             -          2          176.0        2          176.0
Cape Verde ......................              -             -           I           8.1         I           8.1
Chad .......................... .   -                        -          3           55.9        3           55.9
Comoros .........................                     -                 2                       2           18.1
Congo .... ......................                     -                  I         100.0         I         100.0
C6te d'lvoire .....................              .-                     3         376.0         3          376.0
Ethiopia ..........................            -             -          1           748          I-         74.8
Gabon .............-------.-.                   1           30.0       -              -          I          30.0
Gambia. The .....................              -             -          2           13.6        Z           13.6
Ghana .....- ........                                        -          3           87.7    3               87.7
Guinea.-                                                     - ..........................  1  24.6  1       24.6
Kenya ...........................             -              -          1          64.0          1          64.0
Lesotho ..........................             -             -          I           11.0         I          11.0
Madagascar.- .......................-                                   3           83.3        3           83.3
Malawi ...........................             -             -           1          26.9         I          26.9
Mali .................... .                    -              -         3          110.0        3          110.0
Mauritania .......................             -             -          1           195          1          19.5
Mauritius ...................         ..        1            7.7       -             -           1           7.7
Mozambbique ....... ........._..                   _         -          4         427.0         4          4Z7.0
Niger ....................- ..- 2..                                                 66.4        2           66.4
Rwanda .- ..-                                                - -2    27.0   2    27.0
Senegal ..........................             -             -           1          28.7         1          28.7
Sierra Leone ....... .........-.....                                     I          50.2         I          50.'
Tanzania .....- , .-                                                    2    194.7    2                    194.7
Togo --.---------- -                                          -   1   26.2   1   26.2
Uganda.-                                                     -   5   2.2.4   5   262.4
nba...........................    2.  2.
Zambia.----------------3                                                          224.8          -         22-4.8
Zimbabwe... .....................               1           90.0       -              -          1          90.0
Total ..........................              3         127.7        57       2.680.2        60        2.807.9
East Asia and Pacifc
Cambodia ........................              -             -           1          62.7         1          62.7
China ...8 .............                                2.145.0         6         925.0         14       3.070.0
Indonesia ........................             11        1489.8        -             -         I1        1.489.8
Korea. Republic or ................             3         380.0        -             -          3          380.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic                             -          3           48.4        3           48.4
Malaysia ............. .                        2          120.0       -              -         2          120.0
Mlongolia .........................            -             -          2           50.0        2           50.0
Papua NewGuinea ................                1           11.0       -             -           I          11.0
Philippines .......................             3         478.0        -              -         3          478.0
Viet Nam  . .....          ...... ...          -             -          3          324.5.       3          324.5
Total ........................               28       4.623.8        15       1.410.6        43        6.034.4
South Asia
Bangladesh  ...............                                  -          --        597.1         3          597.1
Bhutan..                                       -             -    I    5.4   I    5.4
India .----------- 1    94.0   6   834.8   7    928.8
Nepal .....  -                                               -    3    97.2   3    97.2
Pakistan ..........................             2          380.0        3         361.5         5          741.5
Total ..........................              3         474.0        16        1.896.0       19        2.370.0



Prcjects Apprcned, by Region    145
1BRD loans            IDA credits               Total
Region and country                          Number   Amnount   Number    Amount   Number    Amount
Europe and Central Asia
A l baia------------------                                          5         47.1         5          47.1I
A       r     mnae-------- ia----           -             -          I        28.0          1         28.0
Belarus ..............                       3         170.2       -            -3                   170.2
Bulgaria .2.............14.0    -                                               -2                   148.0
C        r o       a tia...............       I        1128.0      -                        1        128.0
Czech Republic 1.........                               80.0       -     ~      -          I          80.0
Estonia .2.............                                 50.4    -               -          2          50A4
Hungarv--------------                        2         129.0    -               -          2         129.0
Kazakhstan-------------                      4         273.7    -               -          4         273.7
Kyrgyz Republic ----------                  -             -         2         78.0         2          78.0
Latvia.---------------                        1         25.0       -            -          1          25.0
Lithuania .........4.........I                                                                        26.4
Mlacedontia. FYR of.--------                  1         40.0       -          40.0          1         80.0
Moldova ..............                                  60.0    -               -           1         60.0
Poland.--------------                         1        146.0       -            -1                   146.0
Romania..............                        3         400.6    -               -3                   400.6
Russia...............                        6       1,520.0       -            -6                  1-520.0
Slovak Republic.----------                   2          135.0      -            -2                    135.0
Slovertia.1------------                                 80.0       -            -1                    80.0
Turkey.1 ~ ~~~~~~                                      ~~ 100.0  -              I         100.0
Uzbekistan.------------                       I         21.0                               I           211.0
Total ..............                      34       3-533-3        S        193.1        42       3.726.4
Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina.-------------                      3         608.5       -            -3                   608.5
Barbados..............                        1          7.8       -            -I                     7.8
Belize ...............                        1         20.0    -               -                     20.0
Bolivia.--------------                      -             -          I        51.4         I          51L4
Brazil ...............                       7       1.136.6       -           .-          7        1.136.6
Caribbean region .1...  .....                           20.0       -           11.0         1         31.0
Chile.---------------                         I          10.0      -            -           I          10.0
Colombia..............                       3         159.0    -               -          3         159.0
Costa Rica.------------                       I         22-0       -            -           1         22.0
Ecuador..............                        3          64.0    -               -          3          64.0
El Salvador.2----5----------                                                    -          2          52.5
Guyana ...............-                                             2         35-3         2          35.3
Hondums ............. -                                   -          1        87.9          1         87.9
Jamfaica ..............                       2         48.2    -                          2 '        48-2
Mexico ..............                        S        1.530.0      -            -          5        1-530.0
Nicaragua .........  ....                   -             -         3        126.6         3          126.6
Panama.--------------                         1         60.0       -            -           1         60.0
Paraguay.2    115.0   -                                                         -          2    115.0
Peru.---------------                         3         284.0       -            -3                   284.0
Uruguay.-------------                        3         107.5       -            -3                   107.5
Venezucla.-------------                       2        189.4       -            -2                    189.4
Total ..............                      41       4.434.5        7        312-2        48       4.746.7
(continuwed)



146    1994 Regional Perspectives
Table 5-20 (conzinuted)
IBRD lans            IDA cn.dits             Total
Rcgion and country                       Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Number   Amount
Middle East and North Africa
Algena ...........................         2      -140.0       -           -         2         140.0
Egypt .....,.1 ...............                      54.0       -         67.0        1         121.0
Jordan ...................2                         100.0      -           -         2         100.0
Lebanon ......2 ...............                     77.1       -           -         2         77.1
Morocco .........................         5        412.0       -           -         5        412.0
Tunisia ..........................         3       267.5       -           -         3        267.5
Yemen ..........................         -            -         1         33.0        1        33.0
Total ..........................        15      1.050.6       1        100.0      16       1.150.6
Grand total                            12......................   1 4    14243.9  104  6,592.1  228  20.836.0
- 2am~~
Non: Supplements arm included in the amount but are not counted as sepwate leuding operations. Joint IBRDJIDA oper-
adons are counted only once. as IBRD operations.



Trends In Lending   147
Table 5-21. Trends in Lending, LBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1992-94
(amounts in millions of US dollars. fiscal years)
199!                   1993                    1994
Sector            IBRD    IDA    Total   IBRD    IDA    Total   IBRD    IDA    Total
millions of US dollars
Agriculture       2,525.7 1.3783  3.904.0  1,918.8 1,347.9  3.266.7  2.233.3 1,674.0  3.907.3
Education         1299.6  584.1  1t883.7   968.0 1,038.2  2.006.2  1,409.9  658.1  2.068.0
Energy
Oil. gas. and coal   879.0  115.6   994.6   939.8   35.5   975.3  1,202.1  186.2  1388.3
Power            2.824.9  238.0  3.062.9  2.093.0  520.0  2,613.0  1,368.5  -   1,368.5
Environment           -      -        -      11.5   54.8    66.3   730.    17.3   747.8
Financial sector   1.102.0  423.3  1,525.3   637.0  318.1   955.1  1,093.5  411.1  1,504.6
lndustry            142.7  200.0   342.7   250.0   83.5   333.5   422.7  272.2   694.9
Mining and other
extractive          -      6.0     6.0   250.0   12.0   262.0    14.0      -      14.0
Multisector       1.970.0 1,460.1  3.430.1  2.98D.0  620.8  3,600.8   606.3  815.9  1.422.!
Population. health.
and nutrition     307.0  654.7   961.7   706.8 1,104.8  1.811.6   366.0  519.7   885.7
Public sector
management        583.4  172_6   756.0   765.0  247.5  1.01275   370.6  322.6   693.2
Social sector         -      -        -       -      -       -     130.0   20.6   t50.6
Telecommunications   375.0   55.0   430.0   264.0   89.1   353.1   405.0   18.0   423.0
Tourism               -       -       -     130.0    -     130.0    20.0     -      20.0
Transportation     1,744.7  550.8  2.295.5  3.133.1  712.6  3,845.7  2.162.5 1.130.8  3.293.3
Urban development   868.0  333.8  1,201.8  1,139.0  171.2  1,310.2   837.0  4.2.4  1,279.4
Water supply and
sewerage          534.0  377.4   911.4   758.5  395.4  1153.9   872.0  103.2   975.2
Total             15,156.0 6,549.7 21.705.7 16.944.5 6.751.4 23,695.9 14,243.9 6,592.1 20.836.0
percentage distribution
Agriculture          16.7   21.0    18.0    11.3   20.0    13.8    15.7   25.4    18.8
Education             8.6    8.9     8.7     5.7   15.4      85     105    10.0    10.0
Energy
Oil. gas. and coal  5.8    1.8     4.6      5.5    0.5     4.1     8.4    2.8      6.7
Power              18.6    3.6    14.1    12.4    7.7    11.0      9.6     -       6.6
Environment           -      -        -      0.1    0.8      0.3     4.5    0.3      3.6
Financial sector      7.3    6.5     7.0     3.8    417    4.0       7.7    6.2      7.2
Industry              0.9   3i1      1.6      1.5    1.2     1.4     3.0    4.1      3.3
Mining and other
extractive          -      0.1      -       1.5    0.2     1.1     0.1     -       0.1
Multisector          13.0   22.3    15.8    17.6    9.2    15.2      4.3   12.4      6.8
-Population. health.
- and nutrition      2.0   10.0      4.4     4.2   16A      7.6      2.6    7.9     4.3
Public sector
management          3.8    2.6     35       4.5    3.7     4.3     2.6    4.9      3.3
Social sector         -       -       -       -      -       -       0.9    0.3      0.7
Telecommunications    2.5    0.8     2.0      1.6    123     1.5     2.8    0.3      2.0
Tourism               -       -       -       0.8    -       0.5     0.1     -       0.1
Transportation       113    8.4    10.6    18.5   10.6    162        15.2  .17.2    15.8
Urban development    5.7    5.1      5.5     6.7    2.5      5.5     5.9    6.7      6.1
Water supply and
sewerage            35    5.8      4.2      4.5    5.9     4.9     6.1    1.6      4.7
Total               100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0
-Zero.



148      1994 RegIonol Perspectives
Tablc S-22. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1994, by
Sector
(millions of US dolars-)
Sector                                                                          IBRD                IDA               Toutl
Agriculture
Algeria ............                                           ...    30.0                          -                30.0
Belarus ..........................................                             41.9                 -                41.9
Benin ..................................                                         -                 9.7                 9.7
Bhuan ..                                                                         -   5.4  S.4
Bulgaria ...............................                                       50.0                 -                50.0
China .......................... ................15. I0.0                                                           150.0
China .-   200.0  200.0
China.                                                                        460.0   -   460.
China .-   205.0  205.0
China                                                                            -               150.0              150.0
China ...                                                                        -               110.0              110.0
Colombia .39.0    -    39.0
C6te d'Ivoire ....................... ................... 21.8
C6te d'lvoire ................................                                     - ''1
Ecuador.                                     , -------------------             20.0                 -                20.0
Egypt .54.0  67.0  121.0
Ghana                                                                               -             215                21.5
Ghana ...........5..............................                                 -                 5-7  5.7                b
Guyana .-   15.0  15.0
Honduras..                                                                       -   60.0  60.0
Honduras ..............                                                          -                27.9               27.9 h
India.------------------------                                                                  258.0               258.0
India  ----  .......... ........................ .............                   -                78.4        2      5X 0
India..7-                                                                                                            77.4 
India .............................................                              -                47.0               47.0
Indonesia .65.0    -    65.0
Indonesia ................................                                    165.7                 -               165.7
Indonesia ...............    55.0                                                                   -                55.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic                ...................              -                 8.7                8.7
Latvia ....20 -........  5.....                                                                                        .0
Lebanon .................                                                      57.2   -                              57.2
Malaysia .70.0    -    70.0
Mali ..............................................                              -                20.0               20.0
Mauritania .................. ..........                         .               -                18.2               18.2
Mexico ...........................................                            200.0                 -               200.0
Morocco ..........................................                            100.0                 -               100.0
Morocco .121.0    -    121.0
Morocco .25.0    -    25.0
Nicagua..                                                                        -   44.0  44-0
Poland .146.0    -    146.0
Russia ....2.................                                                 240.0                 -               240.0
Russia ............8................                       ......   8 0.0                           -                80.0
Rwanda                       ..... ..........                                    -                15.0    15.0
Tanzania .....-..............................                                    -                24.5                245
Tunisia ...........................................                           120.0                 -               120.0
Tunisia ...2......-  .....................                                                                               5



Projects Approved, by Sector              149
Sector                                                                        IBRD                    IDA                     To1t1
Agriculture reondinued)
Uganda   ..................................                                    -                     14.0                    14.0
Uruguay ....................                                                         . 41.0 -                                41.0
Viet Nam   ................................                                    -                     96.0                    96.0
Total ...................................                              2.2333                  1.674.0                 3.907.3
Educatiun
Albania  ..............................                                        -                      9.6                      9.6
Barbados ..................................                                   7.8                      -                      7.8
Benin ...................................                                      -                     18.1                    18.1
Brazil ...................................                                  206.6                      -                    206-6
Bmzit ..                                                                    150.0                                           150.0
Brazil ..................................                                                                                    96.0
Colombia .................................                                   90.0                        -90.0
C6te d'tvoire ..............................                                                         17.0                     17.0
C6te d'lvoire                                                         ................................                      100.0 1,
C6te d'lvoire   ..............................                                 -                     85.0                    85.0 b
Indonesia .............................2 77                                                _                                    .71
Indonesia ..................                                                 58.9                      -                     589
Kenya ..................................                                       -                     21.8                    21.8
Kenya ..42............2.......                                                                       42,2                    42.24
Korea- Republic of .........................o 190.0                                                    -                    190
Mcxico .................                                                    412.0                      -                    412.0
Nepal    .....    ,                                                                                20.0   20.0
Niger ..                                                                                             41A4    41.4
Pakistan..-                                                                                        20.0    200.0
Romania ....5.050                                   D0..................                                -                    50.0
IJruguay ..................................                                  31-5                                            31.5
Venezuela ..................................                                 89.4                      -                     89A
Viet Nam ..........                                   ...                      -                     70.0                    70.0
Yemen                  ..- .............                                                             33.0                     33.0
Total ......................                 ........                  1.4099                    658.1                 2.068.0
Ener
Oil. gas. and coal
China .................                                                     255.0                      -255.0
Estonia ..........................                      ..                   38A                       -                     38.4
Ethiopia ................. .....                                               -                     74.3                    74.3
Hungary ..................................                                  100.0                      -                    100.0
Jordan .................................                                     80.0                      -                     80.0
Kazaklhstan ...............................                                  15.7                      -                     15.7
Lithuania ....2.....................                                         26.4                      -                     26.4
Madagascar  ................................                                   -                     51.9                    51.9
Mozamrbiquc                         .                .                         ,                     30.0                    30.0
Papua Ncw Guinea .........................                                    11.0                     -                     11.0
Romania ..................................                                  175.6                                           175.6
Russia.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500.                                                                             5;00.0
Russia ...................................                          soO.0                   _            sw.
Zambia ............_.......                                                                          30.0    30.0
Total ...    1.202.1    186.2    1.38;.3
(contirrned)



150    1994 RegIonal Perpectives
Table 5-22 (con!tbined,)
Sector                                                  IBRD               IDA              Totl
Energy (continued)
Power
China          .................                       350.0              -               350.0
Indonesia .................................            260.5              -               260.5
Pakistan                .           .230.0                                                230.0
Philippines              .           .211.0                               -               211.0
Philippins               .           .227.0                               -               227.0
Zimbabe   .                    .90.0                                      -                90.0
Ttal.                                              1.368.5              -              1.368.5
Environment
Chia .160.0                                                               -                160.0
Gambia. The ..............................                -               2.6       -        2.6
Indonesia                       .56.5                                     -                56.5
Korea. Republic of .90.0                                                  -                90.0
Mexico .368.0                                                              -              368.0
Morocco. .6.0    -                                                                          6.0
Ptaistan                                                  -              14.7              14.7
Paraguy .50.0                                                             -                50.0
Totl .73035    17.3    747.8
Financial sector
Argentina .500.0                                                          -               500.0
Argentina..                                              85               -                 8.5
Canrbbean Region ..............                         20.0             11.0              31.0
Colombia.30.0                                                             -                30.0
ooba..................................  00--3.
C6te d-lvoire .-                                                         50.0              50.0 b
C6te d'lvire .-                                                         100.0              100.0 6
Korea. Republic of .100.0                                                 -                100.0
Mozambique .-                                                           200.0    200.0
Mozambique                                                -               9.0               9.0
Russia .200.0                                                             -               200.0
Rwanda ....,,,,,....................                      -              12.0               12.0
Slovenia .80.0                                                            -                80.0
Tunis .120.0                                                              -                120.0
Uganda ....                               ,,,                                      ,        ,,,,, 1...................  _.1 I
Uruguay.                                                350               -                35.0
Zambia .-    18.0   18.0
Zambia..                                                       19.0    10.0 
Total .1.093.5                                                        411.1            1.504.6
Industry
Bangladesh    .                 .-                                      247.0             247.0
Bangladesh .....................-...........                              3.3               363
Comoros  . .-    5.1   5.1
Mauritius .----------------                              7.7               -                 7.7
Philippines ...... ................                    40.0              -                40.0
Romania           ...............                      175.0              -                175.0
Russia          ................                       200.0.             -               200.0
Zambia                  .            .                    -              16.8    16.8 
Total ...............................                422.7            272.2             694.9
Mining and other earactive
Ecuador .140                                                              -                 14.0
Total .1-.............                ...             14.0              -                 14.0



Projects Approved. by Sector   151
SeczorZ                                              IBRD             IDA              Totul
Multisector
Belarus ....                                         8.3              -                 8.3
Belarus ...... ..............                       120.0             -               120.0
Bolivia .................                             -               9.4              9,4
Burkina Faso .    .2............. .                     -5.0                           25.0
Cambodia ......                                                      62.7    62.7
Cameroon                                              -              75.0              75.0
Cameroon                                             5- 0.0                            50.0
Caineroon                                             -              51.0              51.0
Chad.                                                 -   0.0  20.0
Congo..                                               -    00.0  100.0
El Salvador .50.0                                                     -               50.0
Ethiopia               ..                              ,              0.5    0.5 Ob
Gabon .30.0                                                            -               30.0
Guyana.                                               -   2.8  .8 b
Kazakhstan.                                         38.0              -                38.0
Kazakhstan .180.0                                                     -               180.0
Macedonia. FYR or ..............-. 40.0                              40.0              80.0
Malawi   ..4.3  4.3b
Mali   ..                                                            25.0  25.0
Moldova .60.0                                                         -                60.0
Mongolia..                                            -    20.0   20.0
Niger .-    25.0   25.0
Senegal    ..                                                        25.0  25.0
Sierra Leone                           -                             50.0              50.0
Sierra Leone                                          -               0.2               0.2 b
Slovak Rcpublic .80.0                                                 -                80.0
Uganda              ........                          -              80.0    80.0
Zambia .-                                                           150.0   150.0
Total .606.3    815.9    1.4".2
Population. Health, and Nutrition
Argntina .100.0                                                       -               100.0
Brazil .160.0                                                         -               160.0
Burkina Faso                                          -               9.2              29.2
Burkina Faso                                          -              26.3              26.3
Chad ..                                               -   18.5  18.5
China .......-............................            -             110.0             110.0
Como ros ..    -    13.0  13.0
Costa Rica .22.0                                                       -                2.0
Guinea..                                              -    24.6   24.6
India    ..                                                         117.8   117.8
India..                                               -    88.6  88.6
Malaysia ............                                50.0             -                50.0
Nepal              ..                                 -    26.7  26.7
Nicaragua..                                           -              15.0   15.0
Peru .34.0    -                                                                        34.0
Uganda .                                                  -  50.0  50.0
Total ....                                        366.0           519.7             885.7
(continued)



152    1994 RegIar3l Perspectives
Table 5-22  (contintted)
SecIor                                                 IBRD              IDA             Total
Public-sector Management
Benin ............- S5.2                                                                 5.2
Capc Verde.                              .                               I               8.1
El Salvador .2.5                                                                         2.5
Hungary.                                               9.0              -               29.0
Jamaica.                                              35.0              -               35.0
Jamaica. .13.                                                           -               13.2 -
Kyrgbz Republic ..........                             -               60.0             60.0
Lebanon.                                               9.9              -               19.9
Lesotho .-                                                             11.0    11.0
Malawi ...................................-22.6                                         22.6
Mauritania .-                                                           1.3              1.3 h
Nicaragua .-  -   60.0    60.0
Nicaragua .-                                                            7.6    7.6 h
Pakistan .-                                                            46.8    46.8
Pakistan .150.0                                                       100.0            250.0
Turkey .100.0                                                           -              100.0
Uzbekistan.                                           21.0              -               21.0
Total.                                             370.6    322t.6                   693.2
Social Sector
Albania .................................                               5.4              5.4
Albania .-                                                              5.5   5.5
Ecuador ...                                           30.0              -               30.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic                       -                9.7              9.7
Peru ....                                            100.0              -              100.0
Total ...................................          130.0             20.6            150.6
Telecommunications
China .250.0                                                            -              250.0
Czech Republic .80.0                                                    -            -0.0
Jordan .20.0                                                            -               20.0
Kyrghz Republic .-                                                     18.0             18.0
Slovak Republic .55.0                                                   -               55.0
Total ........                                     405.0             18.0            423.0
Tourism
Belize.                                                0.0 o                            20.0
Total ...... ........                                0.0 
Transportation
Bangladesh..                                                          146.8            146.8
Bangladsh .-                                                          200.0    200.0
Brazil ................................2.....         20.0              -              220.0
China ...      .         . ...........               380.0              -              380.0
China ...................................            150.0                             150.0
China .140.0                                                            -              140.0
Estonia.                                              120               -               12.0
India .94.0                                                             -               94.0
Indonesia .................................350.0                        -              350.0
Indonesia .101.5                                                        -              101.5
Kazaklhstan .40.0                                                       -               40.0
Lao People-s Democratic Republic                       -               30.0             30.0
Madagascar ...... .......................-.13.1                                         13.1



Projects Approved, by Sector    153
Sector"                                                    IHRD               IDA              lt .al
Transportation (rainrbuwdJ
M ali a.. .                                                                 65.0   65.0
Mongolia.                                                   -    30.0   30.s
Mozambique ..-                                                                8I .0           188.0
Ncpal ..-                                                                    50.5              50.5
Panama ...61.0                                                                -                60.0
Paraguay .                                                65.0                -                65.0
Peru                                       .              150.0               -               150.0
Russia                                                   300.0                -               300.0
Senegal.                                                    -                 3.7               3.7h
Ta             nzania.                                      -               170 2             170.2
UFanda. .................-                                                  75.0               75.0
Venezuela .................................               100.0               -               100.0
Viet Nam .................................                  -               158.5             158.5
Total ................................                2.162-5           1.130.8           3 293.3
Urban Development
Albania .................. .......        ...               -                15.0              15.0
Armenia                            ......-                                   28.0              2.0
Bolivia .---------------------                                              42.0               4'.0
Brazil .------------150.0                                                     -               150.0
Chad .......         ............ ....                      -                174               17.4
Chile ......                                               10.0               -                 10.0
Croatia .......1..20 ...........                                                              128.0
Gambia. The ....... .-                                                       11.0              11.0
Ghana ..................................-                                    385               38.5
India .....    ............................                                246.0              246.0
Indonesia.                     .............             174.0                -               174.0
Indonesia .......                                         175.0               -               175.0
Madagascar ...............................                  -                18 3              183
Mexico .2..................................               00.0                -               200.0
Togo .-----------------------------                                          26.2              26.2
Total ...                                              837.0             442.4             1279.4
Water Supply and Sewerage
Albania .......                        .....                -                11.6              11.6
Algeria ..................................                110.0               -               110.0
Bcnin ..................................                    -                9.8                9.8
Brazil ...   ..............................              154.0                -               154.0
Bulpria ..................                                98.0                -                98.0
Ghana . ........................                            -                "2.0              22.0
Guyana ...................................                  -                17.5              17.5
Mexico ................................                  350.0                -               350.0
Morocco .----------------------------------160.0                              -               160.0
Uganda ...i...........       ...............                -               42.3               423
Total .. .........8.....                               872.0              103.2             975.2
Grand total .      .............................     14.243.9           6..59.1 20.36.0
-Zero.
NOTE: For additional details. sce Appendixes 6 and 7.
a. Many projects includc activity in more than one sector or subsector.
b. Supplementarv financing to a previous loan. not counted as a separate operation.



154--''-                                                                         -
Section Six
Other World Bank Group
Services and Activities
Operations Evalnala;n                     ments. Staff of borrower agencies contnrbute to
these reports. The reports allow the Bank's
Operations evaluation in the Bank provides a   staff to discern and internalize the lessons of
systematic, comprehensive, and independent   experience specific to the country and sector in
assessment of Bank operations and activities.   which they work. The OED reviews atl com-
Its principal goals are to account for the out-   pletion reports to assess their quality, record
come of Bank-supported projects and pro-   data, and facilitate the transfer of experience to
grams and to use the lessons from that   new operations. The reports are sent to the-
experience to improve the design and conduct   board with an evaluative note from the director
of future operations.  -   '              general.
The director general, operations evaluation,  Performance audils validate and augment
has overall responsibility for evaluation. He re-  the information provided in completion reports
ports directly to the Bank's executive board,   and examine topics of special interest so as to
with an administrative link to the president,   provide inputs for the OED's evaluation-
and is supported by the Operations Evaluation   studies program. The OED structures its audit
Department (OED). The constitutional inde-   work program (with regard to choice of
pendence of evaluation in the Bank encourages   projects, topics to be analyzed, and analytical
evaluation staff to report candidly and allows   approaches to be used) to provide inputs for
them access to all relevant information and to   comparathe studies, as well as to meet require-
select any topic for analysis.'           ments for accountability.
The Joint Audit Committee of the executive  In fiscal 1994 the OED audited 80 percent of
board oversees the work of the OED. In fiscal   adjustmnct lending operations and at least 40
1994 the findings and recommendations of the   percent of the Bank's investment operations.
committee were reviewed by the ful board, as   The OED reviewed 266 completion reports in
were the fiscal 1993 annual report of the direc-  fiscal 1994 and audited 122 of them. of which
tor general, the annual review of evaluation re-   ninety-nine were for investment projects and
sults for 1992, and the evaluation work   twenty-three for adjustment operations. The
program for fiscal 1995.                  cumulative total of Bank operations subjected
Evaluation work program. The year's work   to e-post evaluation reached 3,590 at the end
in evaluation saw the realization of initiatives   of the fiscal year.
taken in response to the recommendations,    In its impact evaluation work, the OED, as-
made in 1993, of the Task Force on Portfolio   sisted by agencies in borrowercountries, takes
Management The task force recommended   a second look at projects five to eight years
that the Bank strengthen its independent eval-  after the close of disbursements. These reports
uation work-and the application of evaluation   focus on evaluating project impact, including
results to the Bank's current operations and   intended and unintended effects. They are a
policy development-as part of efforts to im-   powerful tool for assessing social and environ-
prove the performance and developmental im-   mental impacts and economic worth, and offer
pact of the Bank's lending operations.    valuable insights into what makes development
The Bank's evaluation work program in-   sustainable. In fiscal 1994 seven impact evalu-
cludes completion reports by operational staff;   ations were issued on projects in agricul-
performance audit reports and impact evalua-  ture, treecrops, transmigration, and petro-
tion reports on individual operations by the   chemicals.
OED: and evaluation studies by the OED, in-  Evaluation studies are designed to examine
cluding country and sector lending studies and   particular programs, policies, or issues in a
reviews of Bank policies and processes.   context broader than individual lending opera-
Completion reports are prepared by the   tions. The OED designs its studies program to
Bank's operational staff on all lending opera-  investigate issues revealed by its audit work and
dons at the time the Bank completes disburse-  to respond to current concerns of the Bank's



Operations Evoluation  155
board, management, and staff. In fiscal 1994,    * The introduction of a "policy ledger," re-
the OED sent eleven studies to the board.  cording the responses of Bank management to
Country-assistance revievs, introduced in  the recommendations of OED studies, for ref-
fiscal 1994, assess the suitability of the Bank's  erence by Bank staff.
assistance strategy in particular countries and  In fiscal 1994 OED published Human Re-
the effectiveness of the instruments chosen. A    source Development in Sub-Saharan Africa;
review of Bank-Mexico relations was com-   Evaluration Resultsfor 1992, including analyses
pleted and work began on country-assistance   of the Bank's assistance in agriculture and in
reviews for Argentina, the Caribbean states,  institutional development; and a booklet, As-
and Ghana. These reviews are geared to as-  sessing Development Effectiveness: Evalua-
sessments of lending and nonlending services,  tion in the World Bank and International
and they offer lessons and recommendations   Finance Corporation. With the United Nations
for the Bank's regional staff to feed into   Development Progranme and the United Na-
country-portfolio performance reviews and the   tions Environment Programme, it published
design of country-assistance strategies.  The Global Environment Facility: Independent
Process reviews examine how well the Bank   Evaluation of dtie Pilot Phase-
applies its policies and assess the efficiency  Recognizing the-need to take a more active
and effectiveness of business practices in  role in disseminating lessons of experience to
reaching their intended development goals. In   practitioners outside the Bank, the OED ex-
fiscal 1994 the OED issued a study of monitor-  panded the distribution of its 'Prtcis" series and
ing and evaluation in Bank-supported projects.   began a new series, 'Lessons & Practices."
Sector reviews feed into the Bank's reviews  Twenty OED 'Pr6is" were published. This
of its sector-lending policies. Often these stud-   series highlights findings and recommendations
ies compare expenence across countries; Gth-   from evaluation studies and audits; it is issued
ers are in-depth reviews of particular sectors in  in English, French, and Spanish-
individual countries. Sector studies issued- in  Three issues of "Lessons & Practices" were
fiscal 1994 covered urban development, agri-  published, covering railways, area develop-
cultural extension, telecommunications, rural   ment, and adjustment lending. This series syn-
electrification in Asia, transport corridors in  thesizes lessons and recommendations arising
Africa, transmigration in Indonesia, gender is-  from the Bank's development experience.
sues in the Bank's lending, and industrial re-  The OED presented the results of its audits
orientation in East Africa. Topics of ongoing   and studies at seminars within and outside the
studies include the social impact of adjustment   Bank, including some organized by borrower
programs, irrigation, experience in lending for   countries.
education, industrial restructuring, electric  Support for evaluation in borrower coun-
power in Africa, and the Bank's assistance for   tries. A growing number of the Bank's bor-
public sector managemenL                 rowing members have asked for help in
Dissemination and feedback. For some   establishing or strengthening evaluation agen-
years the Bank's operational guidelines have   ces. Changing views on the rolc of the state,
required staff to seek out evaluation findings   together with increasing scarcity of resources,
and apply them in new operations. To reinforce   are focusing attention on the effectiveness, ef-
the actions the Bank is taking to strengthen   ficiency, and accountability of public institu-
portfolio management and the quality of new   tions as well as of public policies and programs-
operations, the OED cotlaborated in fiscal 1994  OED support begins after a country makes a
with the Bank's central vice presidencies on   commitment to develop the evaluation func-
the design of better methods for appraising   tion- During fiscal 1994 the OED attended to
projects and rating their progress. These efforts  requests for advice on evaluation capacity de-
included:                                velopment from Argentina, Brazil, China, Co-
* The introduction of selective dissemina-  lombia, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka. Activities
tion of lessons learned in connection with pro-  included designing diagnostic studies on eval-
posats for new lending operations.       uation capacity; organizing training and work-
* Evaluation by the OED. of the processes   shops; organizing the participation of country
the Bank uses to review the progress of the   staff in OED's evaluation missions; and pro-
portfolio under implementation. The OED rec-   moting borrower participation in the Bank's
ommended a revision of the rating system that   evaluation processes.
the Bank uses for gauging the performance of    In response to a recommendation of the port-
projects in progress (see Box 4-4 on page 77); it  folio management task force, another task
is now collaborating with the Operations Policy   force made recommendations to the Bank's
Department to produce more reliable indica-   board of executive directors and management
tors of projects' expected development impact-  on future policy, for assisting borrower coun-



156   Other World Bank Group Services and ActMe-
tries to develop evaluation capacity in the pub-   the three principal computing environments in
lic sector.                               the Bank. The LAD also undertook computer-
Other activities. OED participated as an ob-   application reviews and system-development
server in meetings of the OECDIs DAC (De-   audits focusing on the efficiency, effective-
velopment Assistance Committee) Expert   ness, and control of critical applications. In
Group. Evaluation staff participated in training   order to position itself for an expanded pro-
activities and attended workshops and semi-   gram of audits in this increasingly important
nars with evaluators from other international  information-resource management area, the
organizations and donor countries. They con-   LAD added a significant contingent of staffwith
tinued to participate as '"resource persons" in   relevant experience.
seminars of the Economic Development ustid-  In order to satisfy the professional standards
tute.                                     of intemnal auditing, an external Quality Assur-
Internal Auditing                     ance Review of the department's policies and
Internal Auditillg                        procedures was also commissioned during the
The Internal Auditing Department ([AD)   past fiscal year.
acts as an independent appraiser that reviews
and evaluates Bank operations and activities It   Economic Development Institute
is headed by an auditor general who reports    In fiscal 1994. a five-year strategic plan for
functionally to the president of the Bank and,   the Economic Development Institute (EDI),
since December 1991, administratively to the   designed to respond to the needs, challenges,
vice president and controller.  -         and possibilities of the times. was developed. A
In response to requests from Bank manage-   key component of the plan, the mission state-
ment during the year, the LAD conducted a   ment, stresses the institute's commiitment to in-
number of special reviews, including those of   vesting in people and ideas as the most
the $30 million technical assistance program to   powerful means of development-a concept
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (estab-   that distinguishes EDrs role from that of the
lished in August 1991), the Africa Capacity   operational arm of the World Bank, which in-
Building Facility, the main complex rehabilita-   vests much of its resources in physical infra-
tion project, and a number of field offices.   structure. At the same time, however, the plan
These reviews were in addition to the regular  is committed to undertake activities that center
work progpam, which, while coveting all as-   on the Bank's objectives of reducing poverty
pects of the Bank's administration, continued   and promoting sustainable and equitable devel-
to emphasize the Bank's operations and focus   opment.
on traditional topics such as the procurement  Training. Duringthe past year. the EDI con-
of goods, works, and services; the disburse-   ducted 140 training activities (see Table 6-1). A
ment process; and evaluation of procedures   notable expansion in activities took place in the
used to ensure proper accountability of bor-   Europe and Central Asia region, where some
rowers during project implementation -   fifty activities were carried out, an increase of
Staff from IAD also provided technical as-   seven over the previous year. Despite the high
sisance as part of an implementation mission   demand for EDI's assistance in that region. the
to Russia by carrying out an evaluation of de-  institute nevertheless also increased the size
velopments in auditing and locally established   of its program in Africa. The training program
audit firms.                              in Africa included an effort to increase the ef-
A Bankwide review of time-recording sys-  fectiveness of educational reforms through a
tems currently in use was completed, and new,   seminar that brought together twenty-three
comprehensive audits were undertaken on loan   education experts from The Gambia, Malawi.
processing in the East Asia and Pacific and Af-
rica regions. A Bankwide review of internal
controls was also initiated. The department's   Table 6-1. Regional Distnbution of EDI
work program of regular audits of the Bank's    Training Programs in Fiscal Year 1994-
financial and accounting systerns and proce-                             Activities
dures was closely coordinated with reviewsun
dertaken by the Bank's external auditors to  a                              41
avoid duplication of effort and maximize the    Asia                        22
audit coverage. -                 -    -- Europe and Central Asia           50
The Bank relies on information technology    Lati America and the Caibbean  12
to support its business functions. In recogni-   Middle East and North Africa  11-
don of this reliance, the department conducted    Global-:                   4
a senes of technical audits addressing manage-  Total                      140
ment, security, and control issues pertaining to



Economic Develpmt Instiute  157
Nigeria, Tanzania, and Zambia with Bank staff  gram of the program, which supports students
responsible for education projects in those   at universities of their choice worldwide,
countries. The seminar was felt to have been   awarded ninety-four scholarships in fiscal
highly successful in creating a forum for the   1994.
open exchange of ideas between the Bank and  Changes were made in the Robert S. McNa-
its borrowers, thereby helping to reshape both   mara Fellowships Program that, beginning in
the governments' perspectives as well as the   fiscal 1995, would enable it to become a pro-
Bank's lending operations in those countries.   gram of developing country research, with
Although the total number of activities con-'  smaller fellowships and larger numbers of fel-
ducted remained about the same as in the pre-  lows. Through fiscal 1994, research had to be
vious year, the number of participants trained   conducted outside a fellow's home country.
increased from 4,469 to 4,900.              Initiatives undertaken. In adjusting to
The increase in the number of participants   changes in its environment, the EDI introduced
reflects a change in the -mix7' of activities:   several initiatives to its core program:
fewer small seminars for senior officials and  * A program for the Occupied Territories
more courses in economic and sector manage-  -was launched. The program. which began in
ment and ''training of trainers"-courses that   June 1994, emphasizes efficient management of
usually have a larger number of participants.    external assistance through training in topics
Program in threformer Soviet Union (FSU).  such as project assessment, project manage-
In response to the growing demand for assis-   ment and procurement, restructuring of the
tance in the republics of the FSU, the EDI   regulatory framework in the housing sector,
worked closely with local universities-the   and development of policies that support eco-
Tashkent State University of Economics, the   nomic development.
Kazakh State Academy of Management, and     e In response to the 1993 report of the Task
the Economics State University of Kiev, for   Force on Portfolio Management, the EDI be-
example-in designing seminars, recruiting   gan a program in portfolio management that is
trainers, and.preparing teaching materials in lo-   being supported by a senres of training manuals
cal languages. The enterprise-management   and case studies that, in particular, deals with
program in the FSU is a good example of a   the economic analysis of projects, procure-
training-of-trainers program in which EDI first   ment. and project management. Initial imple-
trains local trainers and then uses the local   mentation of this work began in fiscal 1994 in
trainers to train practitioners. During fiscal   dLe FSU; the program is slated to be extended
1994, 2,200 participants were directly or indi-  into China, Viet Nam, and the Occupied Ter-
rectly trained in this highly successful program.   ritories-
Training materials and publications. EDI  * The Errs program on environmentally
prepares most of its own training materials in   sustainable development was expanded to in-
the form of manuals, books, case studies, and   clude training to improve policies and practices
collections of analytical papers and distnbutes   in the involuntary resettlement of persons dis-
them through its courses and seminars and. on   placed by the effects of development projects.
request. to partner training institutions and se-   This expanded program was carried out during
nior officials and policymankers worldwide. The   the year in China, India, and Turkey. In addi-
content of these materials often derives from   tion, a new program in environmental analysis
World Bank experience, including country and   and valuation to help govemments deal with
sector studies, research reports, case studies of  industrial poliution was designed in collabora-
Bank projects, and Operations Evaluation De-  tion with the Foundation for Advanced Studier
partment findings. In fiscal 1994. EDI pub-   in International Development (Tokyo). This
lished eighty titles for use in its courses and   program, funded by the government of Japan,
seminars.                                 includes techniques for assessing, prioritizing,
While most of EDI's materials are published   and managing envirommental problems in the
in Englsh. a certain number are issued in other  transitional economies of Central and Eastern
languages, as well In addition to five Russian   Europe.
titles published during the year. materials were  * Many of the EDrs teaching materials now
also translated into French, Spanish, Chinese.  include computer-based components and mul-
and Arabic-                               timedia techniques. In addition to publishing a
Scholarshkip and felowship programs. The   large number of its training materials on CD-
Worid Bank Graduate Scholarship Programu.   ROM, the EDI has begun to use teleconferenc-
funded bythegovernmentoflapan,sawaclass   ing to bring together developing country
of twenty-five students graduate with a mas-   officials and Bank staff. For example. as part of
ter's degree in Economic Policy Management   a seminar held in Cameroon in early 1994,jour-
from Columbia University. In a11. the core pro-   nalists from French-speaking Africa were



158   Other Wcdd Bank Group Servces and Actities
briefed by senior managers from the World  icy and poverty reduction. One ongoing project
Bank on important concepts that underlie eco-  is studying the effect of price liberalization on
nomic refonn. The United States Information   the rural poor in China; another is exploring
Agency's Worldnet not only linked thejournal-   how macroeconomic and sectoral policies af-
ists (in Yaound6) with Bank officials (in Wash-  fected consumption in India during 1951-90.
ington) but also broadcast the teleconference   Analysis of a panel data set constructed from
throughout Africa.                       rural household surveys in China is expected to
Joint Vienna Institute. The Joint Vienna   lead to better understanding of the ways fami-
Institute, which was established in collabora-  lies rise out of poverty in rural China, and re-
tion with four other agencies-the In-   search on improvingthe productivityof women
ternational Monetary Fund, the Bank for   will examine-the sustainability of three credit
International Settlements, the European Bank.  programs for the rural poor in Bangladesh.
for Reconstruction and Development, and the  Analysis of issues relating to economic
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and   growth and poverty reduction has been con-
Development-continues to conduct and host  founded by the scarcity of data and reliable
courses in market economics for officials from    measures that are comparable across coun-
transitional economies. In its first year-   tries. A cross-country data base for 1981-91,
September 1992 through August 1993-the in-   using uniform poverty measures and purchas-
stitute organized forty-four seminars, totaling   ing power parities, presents a disturbing pic-
108 training weeks, and involving more than   ture: Nearly one out of three people in the
1,150 officials and managers from about thirty   world lives in poverty, and the number of poor
economies in transition. In fiscal 1994, the in-   has been growing commensurate with in-
stitute, which had been functioning under in-   creases in the population.   - -
terim  and informal arrangements, was      Research on economic success and concom-
established as an international organization up-  itant reduction in poverty in several Asian
der a board of directors composed of represen-   countries has prominently cited education as a
tatives of the sponsoring organizations,  critical factor in that success. A study con-
FiDrs Moscow office. The great demand for   ducted during fiscal 1994 analyzed the role of
courses in the Europe and Central Asia region   secondary education in raising labor productiv-
led the EDI to establish its first overseas office,  ity and in facilitating economic transition from
in Moscow. The office is currently staffed by   agriculture toe more capital-intensive services
fifteen locally recruited trainers who coordi-  in newly industrializing Asian developing econ-
nate and conduct training activities in the FSU    omies. Further study is now under way on
(including those related to the Joint Vienna   ways to improve educational systems in devel-
Institute) in collaboration with EDI's   oping countries. A major interagency project
Washington-based.staff.                  concluded during the year found that govern-
ment subsidies for basic education yield impor-
Research at the World Bank               tant benefits and that public expenditures on
The Bank's contnbution to a more compre-   higher education in poorer countries un-
hensive understanding of the processes of   dermine equity and efficiency. Evidence on
growth anddevelopmentreCliestoagreatextent   educational achievement and the cost-
on the research it conducts. That research is  effectiveness of schooling inputs, analyzed in a
intended to provide information to enhance   fiscal 1994 study, has yielded recommenda-
policy maldng of government officials who face   tions for actions to improve educational out-
rapidly changing domestic and global circum-   comes- When families are willing to invest in
stances. It also answers questions that arise in  the health and education of their members, the
designing and adapting the Bank's lending pro-   quality and availability of locat social services
gram to the needs of its members.        critically influence the outcomes of their in-
The major objectives of the Bank's current   vestments; Bank research completed during
programs arc poverty reduction and human re-  the year indicates the relative payoffs to differ-
sources development, enhancement of the role   ent service programs and strategies across
of women in development, private sector de-   many countries and years.
velopment, environmentally sustainable devel-  An interagency study of contraceptive use
opment, and economic management. Bank   suggests that policies to limit population
research is focused on those areas where crit-  growth must be tailored to a country's socio-
ical policy questions remain unanswered.  economic development. Three countries in
* Poverty reduction and human resources de-   different stages of the fertility transition dem-
velopment. Poverty and human resources is-   onstrated wide variations in response to differ-
sues continue to dominate the Bank's research   ent variables such as income, education. and
agenda, with a focus on the links between pol-  access to contraceptive services.



Research at the Woud Bark  159
Improvement of health programs is the ob-   sector growth is constrained by high local
jective of a study that is measuring the effect of  transaction costs. uncompetitive currencies,
higher user fees on the use of primary health   and government interventions and restrictions
services in Indonesia Another is resurveying   that raise costs and limit opportunities to take
health and education indicators and facilities in   advantage of otherwise competitive factor-
Morocco to provide the basis for analyzing a   prices. In many countries the legacy of past
crucial set of issues in the area of government   problems is a morbund industrial sector for
expenditures on social services. Using an un-   which bankruptcy and restructuring are the
usual longitudinal data set for Africa, one   only answers; a research project developing
project is trying to identify the link between   recommendations for bankruptcy law is inves-
health and labor productivity.           tigating wlhat migzht be the most appropriate le-
Research on the impact of unions and policy   gal and regulatory framework.
interventions in the labor market on short-term  In other cases, public sector infrastructure
adjustment and long-term economic perfor-  failures are so pervasive and costs so high that
mnance will help to assess the appropriateness  it is necessary to commeercialize infrastructure
of the Bank's focus on product market reforms   services for the private sector to grow. The de-
in the 1980s. It will also analyze the extent to  terminants of service contracting are being in-
which the private sctor in developing coun-   vestigated to develop recommendations for
tries has been able to circumvent government   commercialization of infrastructure. Transport
interventions in the labor market during the   systems are similarly overburdened and under-
pasttwo decades A three-yearstudy examined   funded. and a set of performance indicators is
critical labor market policies and strategies to   being developed to help policymakers focus on
minimize the social costs of wage and labor re-   prority areas for maintenance, upgrading, and
forms by improving the competitive operation   investment
of labor markets and increasing the efficiency  Despite these problems. firms emerge and
Of public and private spending on education   grow, and research is examining how they do.
and training. The goal was to identify "best  In Russia. determinants of private sector suc-
practices" to improve labor market perfor-  cess are being analyzed; the study is also cx-
mances that have a bearing on the condition of   amining the potential usefulness of business
the poor. The results of another labor market  service centers to provide information. credit.
study, which will be published as a handbook   and advice to new entrepreneurs. The difficult
on labor market policy, is designed to contnb-   process of commercialization and transfer of
ute to the policy dialogue between the Bank   firms from the public to private sector in Po-
and member governments.                  land has been relatively successful, and Bank
Environmentally sustainable development.  research has uncovered lessons that other
The creation of the Environmentally Sustain-   countries. both transitional and developing.
able Development vice presidency has central-  can learn from that experience.
ized resources for analysis of common and  For many developing countries, the agricul-
global environmental issues. Simultaneously.  tural sector is the largest potential source of
environmental research has been initiated in   growth and development, and research is under
different units of the Bank to address local or   way on a range of issues in agricultural devel-
regional environmental concerns. During fiscal   opment. -In the former Soviet Union. land re-
1994 the Bank investigated land use, conserva-  fonn and farm restructuring is needed before
tion of biodiversity, and development in the   fainners will respond to improved incentives.
Amazon floodplain; coastal zone management   and a Bank project is investipting- constraints
in the tropical areas of Latin America; and sus-  to. and ways to enhance, that process. Alter-
tam:able resettlement in areas of Western Af-   native agricultural policies in Poland arc being
rica from which people had migrated because   analyzed for their implications for other post-
of riverblindness infestation and to which they   socialist countries. and a broader study is ex-
are now returning following the eradication of   amining the transition of socialist agriculture in
the black fly. Research of global significance   Europe and Asia.
includes analysis of the relationships among  Macroeconomic issutes and economic man-
population growth. environmental degrada-   agemenl. Adjustment of fiscal and external
tion, and economic growth and a preliminary   balances, reduction of the role of government
investigation into whether lumberwood planta-  in production. and relieving constraints on the
tions can help recover degraded pastureland   private sector have been the focus of economic
and whether they can act as havens for the re-  reform in Afric' for more than a decade. But
habilitation of indigenous species       growth continues to be elusive. and the reasons
Private sector development. For many de-   why are not readily apparent. A study of ad-
veloping and transitional economies. private  justment in twenty-nine African countries.



160   Other World Bank Group Seivices and Actvimes
completed in fiscal 1994. uncovered some an-   fiscal 1993, was $1,358.7 million. Late in fiscal
swers: budget deficits and inflation remain   1994, the directors approved an administrative
high, and overvalued currencies make African   budget for fiscal 1995 of $1S420.3 million. an
products uncompetitive in international mar-  increase of 2A percent in nominal terns (see
kets. The study found that those countries   Table 6-2).
adopting reforms have grown; those only be-  The fiscal 1995 budget was designed to en-
ginning the reforn process still have a long way   able units to implement priority objectives with
to go: and those not adopting reforms are ex-   increased attention to project quality at entry
periencing alarning economic declines.    and supervision. Special attention will be given
The catalyst for growth in many countries   to four key issues.
has been expansion of production for export.  * Poverty reduction will be reflected in all
While the means and benefits of liberalizing   components of country-assistance strategies
trade policies have been well documented.   involving greater staff intensity per operation.
drawn-out multilateral negotiations in the Uru-  * Portfolio-management activities will re-
guay Round of the General Agreement on Tar-   ceive further emphasis to improve project
iffs and Trade have generated renewed interest  implementation so as to enhance the develop-
in groupings to promote regional tade. Re-   mental impact of Bank operations.
search was conducted on regional arrange-   * Country dialogue on policy reform will be
ments and their advantages and costs relative   strengthened. and efforts to develop
to international agreements in order to advise   investment-lending opportunities increased,
developing country officials on the strategies   particularly in the newer members and in those
that would be of greatest benefit         moving out of adjustment lending.
Progress in the generation of government  * Collaboration with other multilateral and
revenues continues to be highly variable across   nongovernmental organizations and the private
countries, and research on ways to mobilize   sector wil be increased to make maximum use
resources for public services has been a staple   of the capacities of others.
of Bank research for years. The focus of public  World Bank regular and fixed-term staff on
economics research shifted in fiscal 1994. how-   board at the end of fiscal year 1994- totaled
ever. toward public expenditures and fiscal de-   6.338. of whom 4.145 were higher-level staff
centrAliztion. New projects are investigating   from 123 nations. The number of staff in-
expenditure equalization among provincial and   creased 2.3 percent from the previous year
local governments, are examining instruments   higher-level staff grew by 3.5 percent. Of the
for allocating expenditure responsibilities and   higher-level staff. 59 percent were from indus-
revenues from central to local govermments,  trialized countries; the remaining 41 percent
and are studying the effects of fiscal decenural-   were from developing countries.
ization on various measures of performance.  At the end of the year, 1.166 higher-level,
The Bank's sixth annual conference on de-  long-term consultants. (those with contracts
velopment economics surveyed five topics: the   with a duration of six months or more) were
transition in socialist economies; new instita-   worling for the Bank, an increase of 27.7 per-
tional economics; economic geography-the   cent over fiscal year 1993. and 508 regular and
dynamics of disparate regional development:  fixed-term staff were in special positions.
pressures driving international migration; and  Women employed as higher-level staff by the
labor markets under systemic change. The pre-   Bank increased from 28A percent of the total to
sentation of eleven papers on these topics was   30.0 percent during fiscal 1994. The Bank re-
supplemented by a keynote speech on current   cruited 257 new higher-level staff in fiscal 1994,
development issues by the Bank's vice presi-   of whom 32-7 percent were from developing
dent, Development Economics and Chief   countriesand 39.3 percentwere women. Forty-
Economist. and a roundtable discussion on em-   two of the Bank's recruits were selected
ployment and development (it was the initial  through the Young Professionals Program:
forum on the theme of WorldDevelopment Re-   thirty were from developing countries, and
port 1995). The papers. with discussant com-   eighteen were women. As an experiment, the
ments, the keynote speech. and a summary of   Young Professionals Program hired ten techni-
the roundtable discussion. will be published as   cal specialists, rather than economists or finan-
Proceedings of tire World Bank Anntual Con-   cia! specialists. The experiment proved to be a
ference On Development &onomics. 1994.    success. and the program will be expanded to
hire more technical specialists and fewer econ-
The Administrative Budget and             omists and financial analysts in fiscal 1995. A
Bank Administration                       special skills-mix recruitment strategy was set
The Bank's administrative budget for fiscal  in motion to hire staff in seven skills areas
1994. as approved by the executive directors in   greatly in need in the Bank. One hundred



The AdM minlrotln Budget and Bank Admnhuraton    161
Table 6-2. World Bak Budget by ExpenseCategory and Adminisrative Program,
1992-95
(milions of US dollars; fiscal years)
Actual
Item                                                 -      :1992  1993      1994         progaM
Erpense categery
Staff costs                                    699.0          7712          851.8          878.8
Consulants                                      892           104.8      -113.7             128.2
Contractual servicesfrepresentaion              373            42.9          663 -          49.6
Operatiolal travel                             113.5 .        1220        :       129.8WA
Overbead                                       176.1          209.1         231.6          215.0
Direct contnbutions to special
gpants programe                               58.6           80.7          102.5          90.5
President's contienCy"b                           ns.        n=m.             na        -    14.1
Reimbursemnents                                (100.5)        M.3)          (107.3)        (113J8
Accrual for resettlement on termination          na.            ns.           n n-           23.0
Allocaion for pending benefit initiatives. n..                  n.a           na             0.6
Total                                       1,074.0       1,235.6       1t3884          1,4203
Admin&stfatie program'
Operational                                    496.3          S82.0         612.2           630.7
Fmancial                                        87.0           92.4.         98.5           102.1
Development and advisory          .            175.6          172.3         216.6           2175
Administrtive support -                        106.3          106.0          119.7          116.6
Corporae mnement and legal services             38.4           40.6          45.1-          48.1
Total                                        903.6          9933         1,092.1    -  1,115.0
Over d /b                        . - - :       154.0         .193.8         210.3          223.0
-esident's cndgency                             n.aL           na- n..                      14.1
Reimbusements                                  (100.5)        (95.3)        (107.3)        (113.8)
Net adminisrative programs       .             957.0         1,091.7       1,195.0        1.23833.
Special programs        -                       65J7           88.8          1102           98.4
Boards                                          40.1           43.1         .46.5       -     3.9
Operations evaluation                           11.2           12.0           13.8         . 14.6
Nondiscretionary itam    -naD a                                                 sna.         14.6
Alloction for pendg benefit initiatives          n.a.            A           229'             0.6
Total budget                 .1,074.0                      1,235.66      1,388.4        1,420.3'
Warm Details may not add to zoals becuse of roding.
na. Not applcable.
a. Includes Institutional Devlopmcat Fund in fiscal 1993-95.
b. Alcations from president's co ngy have been incnded in r apective          fr fiSscal 1992-%4
c. Subject to executive board approvaL.
dL Fiscal 1992-93 figrs differ fBm those in the fiscal 1993 AnmlRepwr due to a change  the methodoloy ofaocat
benef  to differen propsm
e. Ccntrlly maanaged overhead and benefits.
L Includes adminia_tie expense and an additonal $13 milion fortthc Consultative Group for Int_aonal Agricultura
Resarch in fiscal 1994; the rmining S7 milGon will be paid in fscal 1995-
g. tIncle S7.1 milion undeftnding k the curmcy option of the Staff ReimentPlan (SRP). a net savig of SL. al  m
under the Retired Staff BenefitPanw, a savings o fS9.7 miion due to SRP portfolio gains,. and a 25.3 milio pro-in for
rscttleme  on termainaion due to accounting changes.
hI Excludes $20 million fr Somalia relief.
L Includes S25.3 milionprvisionforresttlonentofwhichS22.9million was ulmaelypaidftomabudget undrarun  fscal
1994.V Te rmaining 82.4 mInio is the fiscal 1995 increment.



162   Other World Bank Group Services and AcHties
twenty-two staff in those skills areas were   respects. Staff indicated that they are generally
hired, and the recruitment strategy will be con-   satisfied with their work, pay, and benefits,
tinued in fiscal year 1995.              identify with the institution's goals, and feel
Improvement of skills is also being carried   that their managers are doing goodjobs; none-
out through training that is offered in a wide   theless, they feel ambivalent towards the insti-
range of new courses-environmental issues,  tution itself. Dissatisfaction with career
health management. women in development,  development, internal communications, and
poverty, private sector development, and pub-  the personnel function were cited as contnbut-
lic sector management-to enhance technical  ing causes of ambivalence; stress is also greater
and professional skills of staff. In response to   now than in 1990. Managers were directed to
the recommendations of the Task Force on   work with their staff and to take action on local
Portfolio Management and the "next steps"   issues.
action program, an integrated training curricu-  Problems encountered by staff (particularly
lum on portfolio management and lending op-   expatriates or those who must travel fre-
erations has been developed. The content   quently) in balancing the demands of work and
addresses several major themes of portfolio  their family obligations frequendy contnbute
management and lending operations devedoped   to stress. As a result, adjustments to policy and
from analyses of reports on portfolio manage-   new programs complementing existing benefits
ment, business and institutional priorities, and   were introduced. They include enhanced pro-
staff training needs.                     visions for emergency and family leave, greater
Occupancy of the Phase I building of the   flexibility in working hours and schedules,
new main complex by Bank staff began in the   counselingforfamiy members on seeking em-
first quarter of fiscal 1994. Work preparatory to   ployment in the Washington area, and assis-
the further demorition of buildings started in  tance in identifying appropriate child and clder
October 1993, demolition was completed in   care arrangements It is anticipated that these
May 1994, and excavation and construction of   measures will improve the Bank's ability to at-
the foundations for the Phase 2 building started   tact the diversified and highly skilled staff re-
in the same month. Completion of the Phase 2   quired to carry out its mission.
building is scheduled for late fiscal 1996.  FoDlowing a review by the Health Services
In. December 1993, a new department, the   Department into the possible causes and rem-
Headquarters Construction Department, was   edies of stress, a stress clinic was established.
formed to manage the main complex rebuilding   Bank Staff running the program provide indi-
project. Itis managed and staffed by personnel   vidual stress-management consultations, dis-
experienced in construction.              tribute educational materials, hold monthly
The second Quadrennial Benefits Survey   health-promotion talks on-stress, and are cur-
was conducted by the Bank and the Incena-  rently developing a training course in stress
tional Monetary Fund in 1993. The survey re-   management
vealed that the value of staff benefits (net of  Standardized occupational streams were de-
staff contnrbutions) was at an intermediate po-   veloped to assist staff and managers in achiev-
sition in relation to those of 109 comparator   ing greater mobility across the institution. The
oganizations in the United States, France, and   streams, which cover more than 85 percent of
Germany. European comparators were found   all nonmanagerial jobs, clarify the require-
to have more generous leave and subsidy pro-   ments for entry and growth within various job
visions. The review concluded that the Bank's  families and are used for staffing and career
overall benefits envelope was reasonably re-   counseing, as wel as forjob-grading and pro-
lated to those of comparators.            motion decisions-
On January. 1, 1994 the Bank adopted a    Substantial changes, designed to create a
worldwide business class travel policy. Since   better, more balanced dialogue between super-
the Bank moved toward changes in its opera-   visors and staff about performance effective-
tional travel policy in 1993,-the cost of airfres   ness and skill development, were made in the
from headquarters has decreased by about 25   Bank's performance-management process for
percent The fiscal year also marked the first   headquarters-based staff. A key element is the
full year of operations of the dual-contractor   use of job-family competencies to enhance the
arrangements for travl service and food ser-  specificity and usefilness ofperformance feed-
vices, contracted for through a competitive   baclk The competencies are integrated into the
bidding process.                          annual performance rview using streamlined
Results of the fifth Attitude Survey, made   forms and procedures that focus attention on
available in September, showed that despite   dialogue rather than on text The outcome is a
improvements on some institutional indices,  joint staWmanager plan for increasing the staff
work group responses deteriorated in several   member's effectiveness.



Intem-at.onal Rnnce Caporatfon   163
In January 1994 the Personnel and Adminis-   spreadsheets and an Electronic Document
tration vice presidency was reorganized and   Management System that provides new capa-
became the Management and Personnel Ser-  bilities of electronically capturing, storing, and
vices vice presidency. The reorganization was   managing information from the desktop. Ac-
designed to make the vice presidency, which is  complishments in the information-management
a service arm to the rest of the Bank, become   field include the establishment of a new Field
more responsive to the needs of its clients, per-   Office Information Services Unit; the develop-
form to a higher standard of service, and im-   ment of policies, guidelines, and procedures for
prove the effectiveness of the Bank's business   managing Bank records; and the conversion
processes, both within its own areas of respon-   from microfiche to optical storage of internal
sibility and without, by helping other areas of   Bank reports.
the Bank improve business processes. A new
department-Organization and Business   International Fmance Corporation
Practices-was created by merging the Orga-  The International Fmance Corporation (IFC),
nization Planning Group and units of the Infor-   a member of the World Bank Group, promotes
mation Technology and Facilities Department.  private enterprise in its developing member
The new departnent will bring the power of   countries. It does this by financing sound pri-
information technology and systems to the de-   vate sector projects, mobilizing debt and equity
sign of new work processes and organization   financing in the international markets for pri-
struclturs. Its primary responsibility is to im-   vate companies, and providing technical assis-
prove existing business practices, processes,  tance and advisory services to businesses and
and procedures. At the same time, the facilities   governments.
units of the Information Technology and Facil-    The growth of the IFC's operations in fiscal
ities Department were merged with the General   1994 was strong. Financing approved for IFCCs
Services Department                       own account was $2.5 bilion for 231 projects,
The management team of the new vice pres-   compared with $2.1 billion for 185 projects in
idency, in collaboration with its clients, estab-   fiscal 1993. It was also a good. year for the
fished a set of business objectives and plans for   IFC's resource-mobflization activities. The
fiscal years 1994 and 1995 that will lead to re-   corporation approved $1.8 billion in financing
duced costs and improved quality of services,  to be mobilized through loan syndications and
with particular focus on the Organization and   the underwriting ofsecurities issues and invest-
Business Practices, Gencral Services, and the   meni flunds. Projects approved by the IEC had
Personnel Management departments. The   total investment costs of $15.8 billion; this
plans address the need to support the efforts of   means that other investors and lenders wil pro-
other vice presidencies to redesign their busi-  vide a total of $5.43 for every dollar approved
ness processes and service delivery. Two vice   by the IEFC.
presidencies-the East Asia and Pacific Region  The corporation approved projects in sixty-
and Development Economics-have launched   five countries, compared with fifty-four coun-
redesign efforts. One department in each vice   tries in fiscal 1993, as well as a number of
presidency, with the support of Management   projects with a regional or international scope.
and Personnel Services, nas undertaken a com-   Approvals increased in most regions. IFCs ap-
prehensive redesign of its core work processes.   provals in Central Asia, the Middle East, and
These redesign efforts were initiated because   North Africa increased by 42 percent, to $383
many-of the work prmcesses have become too   million; in Asia, by 16 percent, to $605 milion;
cumbersome and costy and lack client partic-  in Latin Amenca and the Caribbean, by 15 per-
ipation. The redesign work will be completed   cent, to $815 million; and in Europe, by 6 per-
in the fall of 1994, with implementation sched-   cent, to $443 million. In sub-Saharan Afirica,
uled to take place in 1995. Once the redesign   the number of projects approved increased
work is finished it will be evaluated and then   from forty-five to fifty-seven, but the volume of
expanded to other departments and regions.    financing decreased to $157 million; as more
Information technology initatives currently  than half of the projects involved small and.
being implemented on a Bankwide basis in-   medium-sized enterprises.
clude centrally managed and supported tech-  The IFC was active in many sector, includ-
nology service that allows voice, video,   ing capital markets, power, telecommunica-
graphic, image, text, and numeric data to be   tions, agnrbusiness, tourism, manufacturing, oil
shared easily throughout the institution and   and gas, mining, and petrochemicals, among
with external entities. Initiatives at early stages   others. Capital markets activities-for exam-
of development include a new desktop elec-   pie, investments in banks and nonbank finan-
tronic mail service that is better integrated with   cial institutions and various funds, credit lines
standard software such as word processors and   for intermediaries, and securities under-



164   Other World Bank Group Seivces and ActIvtes
writing-accounted ror 24 percent of the dollar   growth rate of 12 percent to 13 percent annu-
volume approved. A new product launched by   ally in new investment approvals for the fore-
the IFC in fiscal 1994, the State Street Bank &    seeable future.
Trust Company/IFC Emerging Markets Index-    During the year the corporation's mem-
Common Trust Fund, will invest in twenty-   bership increased to 161 countries. The IFC
three stock mark-ets covered by the IFC Invest-   welcomed five new members-Estonia, Kaza-
able Composite Index, a series launched in   khstan, Latvia, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
fiscal 1993.                                Because of the growth of its operations and
The IFC approved a number of projects in   staff during the past decade, the corporation
sectors such as telecommunications, power,   has outgrown its present office space, which is
transport, and water supply, and made a $50   leased fom the World Bank. After careful con-
million investment in a global fund that will  sideradion, IFC management decided to buy a
provide mezzanine financing for power   site near World Bank headquarters in down-
projects throughout the developing world, as   town Washington, D.C. and construct new
well as a $1 million investment in the fund   headquarters. The site was purchased in 1992,
management company.                       and excavation began in fiscal 1994. The IFC
New commitments signed during the year   expects to move into its new headquarters in
reached $1.8 billion, up from $1.4 billion in fis-  fiscal 1997.
cal 1993. Disbursements were also up; they  Details of the IEC's fiscal year can be found
reached $1.5 billion, compared with $1.2 billion   in its Annual Report, published separately.
last year. The IFC's disbursed portfolio grew
by 14 percent during the fiscal year, to reach   Multilateral Investment Guarantee
S6.2 billion at June 30, 1994.            Agency
The Foreign Investment Advisory Service   The Multilateral Investment Guarantee
(IAS), which is supervised by a committee   Agency (MIGA) has as its mandate to increase
consisting ofrepresentatives of the EFC, MIGA    the flow of productive investments to develop-
(until July 1, 1994), and the Bank, provides ad-   ing member countries by providing services
vice on matters related to foreign direct invest-  that are client-oriented, cost-efficient, and
menL In fiscal 1994, FIAS completed twenty-   complementary to those of other relevant pub-
eight advisory assignments in twenty-five   lic and private activities. It achieves this by
countries.                                (a) guaranteeing (or insuring) investments in
The IFC's financial performance was strong   developing countries made by private investors
during the year, with record net income of $258   against specific noncommercial risks; and (b)
million, a return of 8.8 percent on IFC's net   advising and assisting these countries' efforts
worth, which reached S3.2 billion at June 30,  to amtact and retain such investment.
1994. The IFC borrowed S1.5 billion in the in-  - During fiscal 1994, MIGA's board of direc-
ternational markets and $180 million from the   tors reviewed and approved changes in the
iBRD and issued bonds in six currencies, in-   agency's operational regulations; reviewed the
eluding its first in the drachma market The   agency's operations during its first five yearn of
IFC's Largest borrowing to date was a Eurodol-  activities; agreed to sever the relationship with
lar 500 million issue made in fiscal 1994.  the Bank Group's Foreign Investment Advi-
In fiscal 1994 the IFCs board approved a   sory Services (FIAS) as of July 1, 1994 so as to
revision of the corporation's leverage and   conserve the agency's resources and build up
capital-adequacy policies. Under the revised   reserves; approved an increase in the risk-to-
policies, the corporation would maintain at all  asset ratio to allow for further growth in the
tines a level of capital (including paid-in capi-  guarantees program; and concurred with the
tal, retained earnings, and general loss re-   president's decision on thirty-six insurance
serves) equal to at least 30 percent of risk-   projects conveyed to it.
weighted assets and would borrow no more    The number of countries paying their capital
than four times the amount of its net wordt (the   subscription in full and becoming members of
total of subscribed capital and retained earn-   the agency increased from 107 to 121.
ings). At June 30, 1994, IFC's capital adequacy  Guarantee program. In fiscal 1994, MIGA's
stood at 43 percent, well above the policy min-   guarantee program exceeded fiscal 1993 out-
imum of 30 percent, while IFC's leverage stood   puts in nearly every respect. Increases took
at 117:1, well within the permitted maximum.   place in the number of contacts executed (38
Those ratios convey the strong level ofthe cor-   as compared with 27), income earned from pre-
poration's capital and reserves in relation to   miums and commitment fees (S9.9 million as
its risk exposures and borrowings and should   opposed to $5.8 mfllioni, and commitments of
permit the IFC, provided that profitability re-   potential coverage ($140 million in contrast
mains satisfactory, to maintain its current   with $105 million).



-eIrnaemIonal Centre for Setlement of Investment DIsputes  165
The thirty-eight contracts issued in fiscal   MIGA will provide the secretariat for the net-.
1994 involved an associated total direct invest-   work, which will primarily enable members to
ment of some $1.3 billion and created 7,800   meet. and exchange information and experi--
jobs directly in fourteen host countries-a five-   ences.
fold increase in job creation over the previous  In compliance with its mandate, MIGA, di-
fiscal year. In fiscal 1994, investments were as-   rectly or with FIAS, provided advice to a num-
sisted in Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria,   ber of member countries on their foreign
Cameroon, Chile, China, the Czech Republic,   investment legislation. MIGA also actively
Hungary, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Peru, Trin-   promoted the conclusion of bilateral invest-
idad and Tobago, Uganda, and Uzbekistan.   ment treaties among several members and en-
Several milestones in the evolution of   couraged the amiable settlement of a number of
MIGA's guarantees progmm were reached in   investment disputes.
fiscal 1994. MIIGA signed its 100th contract of  Detaits of MIGA's activities in fiscal 1994 ap-
guarantee; total contingent liabilities exceeded    pear in the MIGA Annuar Report for fiscal
.the $1 billion mark; the 1,500th preliminary ap-   1994, which is published separately.
plication for coverage was received; and the
agency was formally admitted as a member of   International Centre for Settlement of
the International Union of Credit and Invest-  Investment Disputes
ment Insurers (the Berne Union).            The International Centre for Settlement of
Technical assistance activities. MIGA fur-  Investment Disputes (ICSID) is a separate in-
nishes a variety of technical assistance services   ternational organization established under the
to assist efforts to stimulate foreign direct in-   Convention on the Settlement of Investment
vestment in the developing world and the tran-   Disputes between States and Nationals of
sitional economies (collectively referred to by   Other States (the Convention), which was
MIGA as Category Two countries). Through   opened for signature in 1965 and entered into
the end of fiscal 1994, these services were fur-  force the following year.
nished both directly and through the FIAS.  ICSID seeks tc encourage greater flows of
Technical assistance is now focused primarily  international investment by providing facilities
on investment promotion and information dis-  for the conciliation and arbitration of disputes
semination on investment opportunities in Cat-   between govermnents and foreign investors. In
egory Two countries and the related capacity   addition, ICSID undertakes advisory, re-
building of those countries' investment-   search, and publications activities in thearea of
promotion agencies.                       foreign investment law.
. During fiscal 1994, and in coUlaboration with  During the past fiscal year, ICSID's mem-
other agencies, MIGA conducted two major   bership continued to grow with the ratification
multicountry promotional events and related   of the Convention by Peru, the Slovak Repub-
activities-the first for the tourism sector of   tic, Slovenia, and Zimbabwe. As of June 30.
South America and the second for the mining   1994, 113 countries had become members of
sector of sub-Saharan Africa.              ICSD; an additional seventeen countries had
Other promotion activities carried out during   signed but not yet ratified the Convention.
the year included strategy workshops designed  During the same period, two new requests,
to help member countries in capacity building   one for arbitration and one for conciliation,
for marketing, workshops to strengthen inves-   were registered, and two awards were ren-
tor services and linkages, and assistance in   dered. As of June 30, 1994, three cases were
launching investment-promotion missions.   pending before the centre.
Reflecting MIGA's new emphasis to assist    ICSID's publications include a semiannual
member countries in information dissemination   law journal, 'ICSID Review-Foreign Invest-
on investment opportunities, work began on   ment Law Journal," and multivolume coliec-
some major initiatives during fiscal year 1994.  tions of Investment Laws of the World and
The most important was preparation for the   Investment Treaties. Two issues of the law
launching of a global investment-promotion   journal and four releases of the investment
agency to be supported by a planned global  laws and treaties coUections were published in
electronic information exchange (IPAnet)- The   fiscal 1994.
IPAnet will link official investment-promotion  - Details of ICSID's activities during fiscal
agencies, business associations, financial and    1994 appear in its AnnualReport, which is pub-
other intermediaries, and ultimately, investors.  fished separately.



166
Section Seven
World Bank Finances
The IBRD currently has 177 members. These   development in the IBRD's borrowing coun-
members have subscribed about 1.41 million   tries. The maintenance of a strong AAA rating
shares of the Bank's capital stock valued at   or its equivalent from the bond-rating services
$170 billion. The subscription price of the   is critical to all shareholders, since it reflects
IBRD's shares is divided into a paid-in portion   the IBRD's outstanding financial strength and
(currently 3 percent) and a larger callable por-   permits the institution to provide loans at low-
tion. The former is payable to the IBRD at the   est cost and to ensure continued access to cap-
time of subscription; the latter ray be called   ital markets.
only when required to meet IBR1) obligations  The EBRD's AAA rating is underpinned by
arising out of its borrowings or loan guaran-   three factors: shareholder support for capital
tees. The paid-in portion is divided in turn into   increases and access to their capital markets,
a portion payable in gold or United States dol-  the preferred-creditor status granted the IBRD
tars and another payable in a members own   by its borrowers, and the IBRD's prudent fi-
currency. The amount payable in a member's   nancial policies that keep risks well contained.
own currency is to be maintained in terns of its  The EBRD accepts and manages the risk of
value against the standard value of the Bank's  lending to its developing member countries.
capital, which is expressed in United States   That risk is assessed and managed at the coun-
dollars.                                  try level and in aggregate. At the country level,
The IBRD's Articles of Agreement, as ap-   the IBRD's lending levels are related explicitly
plied, require that the total amount outstanding   to country creditworthiness and IBRD expo-
of disbursed loans, participations in loans, and   sure. Creditworthiness is assessed in relation
callable guarantees not exceed the total value   to a country's current and expected future abil-
of subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus.  ity to repay IBTD loans. At the aggregate level,
This defines the JBRD's statutory lending limit.  the IBRD's oveUll country-portfolio risk is
The difference between that limit and the ac-   regularly reviewed by Bank staff, manage-
tual total of disbursed loans, participations,   ment, and the executive directors. The overaU
and caBlable guarantees is known as 'head-   assessment of aggregate and country risk and
room." Under current policy, the adequacy of   their expected evolution are important factors
the IBRD's capital is reviewed every three   in determining annual IBRD lending alloca-
years, or more often if necessary.         tions and longer-term country-assistance strat-
Capital increases are the subject of negotia-   egies- They also help determine what levels of
tion and agreement among EBRD members.  loan-loss provisions and reserves are required.
Two indicators are used to determine when and  Market risks-currency, interest, and fund-
how large a capital increase may be required.   ing risk-are kept limited and are shared with
One indicator is the amount of available head-   borrowers.
room and the date by which it can reasonably  Currency risk is limited by the EBRD's Arti-
be expected to be exhausted. Another is the   cles of Agreement. The IBRID does not take
"sustainable levrel of lending." This indicator is   currency risk on its borrowings; assets are held
a useful planning tool since it identifies the   in the same currencies to match these liabili-
level of lending that can be sustained indefi-  ties. In addition, the IBRD's reserves and suir-
nitely, under certain assumptions, without an   plus are kept in the same currency composition
increase in capital. The IBRD's current sus-   as its outstanding loans. Interest risk is passed
tainable level of lending stands at about $27 bil-   on to borrowers thrugh the variable rate loans
lion, compared with a commitment level for   the IBRD makes. Funding risk (that is. the in-
fiscal 1994 of $14.2 billion.              ability to gain access to sufficient funds to meet
The objective, of the IBRD's financial poli-   obligations at a particular time) is managed by
cies is to provide the capacity to be an efficient   borrowing medium term to long term and by
intermediary of long-term funds borrowed   carrying liquidity sufficient to meet 45 percent
from international capital markets to support   of the next three years' cash needs.



Loans  167
The lending rate on IBRD loans is based on    mark, French francs, and pounds storming, with
the IBRD's own cost of borrowings. A spread   an interest rate tied to six-month LIBOR in
of ifty basis points is added to this cost basis.   each loan currency (PIBOR in the case of
This spread may be reduced by waivers that   French francs). By the end of fiscal 1994, a to-
are annually decided by the executive directors   tal of $1,715 million had been approved. in-
in light of available net income.          volving nine loans to as many countries. Of
The IBRD's net income is calculated net of   that amount, $845 million was approved in
expenses, which include loan-loss provisions.   fiscal 1994, involving five loans. All of these
The IBRD's objective is to optimize, not max-   were United States dollar loans. At June 30,
imize, net income so that reserves are ade-   1994, disbursements had begun on four
quate, while at the same time loan charges are   single-currency loans. The IBRD will review
kept low. Reserves are maintained to enable  the results of the pilot program during fiscal
the IBRD to absorb potentially large but low-   1995.
probability risks, such as a sizable unexpected  Review of currency-pool targets. During fis-
increase in loan arrears, without resorting to a   cal 1994, the executive directors undertook an
call on capital. A portion of net income is al-  interim review of the target ratios for the com-
located annually in an amount sufficient to   position of the currency pool that were estab-
maintain the target level of reserves, currently   lished in January 1989. The objective of the
set at a range of 13 percent to 14 percent of   1989 policy was to achieve better predictabil-
loans.                                     ity, balance, and understandability for borrow-
ers by targeting the composition of their loan
obligations within narrow tolerances. The ex-
IBRD Financial Highlights                  ecutive directors affirmed that it is the inten-
Financial highlights of the fiscal year ending   tion of the IBRD to maintain at least 90 percent
June 30, 1994 included:                    of the United States dollar equivalent value of
* disbursements to countries of$10.4 bilion;   the pool in targeted ratios of I United States
* borrowing the equivalent of $8-9 billion in   doUar t25 yen: 2 deutsche mark equivalent
twelve currencies, four after swaps; and   (comprised of deutsche mark, Swiss francs,
* net income of $1,051 million, well within   and/or Netherlands guilders) until at least June
the range that satisfies the IBRD's financial ob-   1996. At the end of the year, 97.7 percent of
jectives.                                   currency-pool loans were in the targeted cur-
In the first quarter of fiscal 1994, net income   rencies.
earned during fiscal 1993 was allocated as fol-  Accumutated provisions for loan losses.
lows:                                      The level of loan-loss provisions is based on an
* $675 million to the general reserve, which,   assessment of the collectibility of loans in non-
together with $1,090 million transferred from    accrual status, together with an evaluation of
surplus to the general reserve, was intended to   coliecttbility risks in the remainder of the port-
increase the IBRD's reserves-to-loan ratio at   folio. For fiscal year 1994, loan-loss provisions
the end of fiscal 1994 1o a minimum of 13 per-   were maintained at a level equal to 3 percent of
cent, excluding amounts allocated for prefind-   total loans disbursed and outstanding plus the
ing of interest waivers;                   present valiue of guarantees for an amount
* $215 million to the general reserve for pre-   equivalent to $3,324 milion at the end of the
funding of interest waivers to be granted in fis-  fiscal year.
cal 1994;
* $100 million to the Debt-reduction Facility   Loans
for DA-only Countries; and                   Disbursements. Gross disbursements by the
* $140 million to IDA.                   IBRD to -countries during fiscal 1994 were
Other funds transferredtfrom surplus during   $10,447 miflion, down $2,495 million from fis-
the year included $325 million transferred to   cal 1993's total of $12,942 million. Net dis-
IDA and $50 million (from fiscal 1992 net in-   bursements were negative, at -$731 million,
come) to establish a trust fund for Gaza.  down from $2,331 million in fiiscal 1993. The
dcline in net disbursements is the result of
Fimancial Policies                 1993, the lower level of gross disbursements com-
Single-currency loans. During fiscal     bined with a high level of prepayments, at
the IBRD began a $3 billion, two-year pilot pro-   $970 milion, in fiscal 1994. Excluding prepay-
gram to offereligible borrowers a choice of cur-   ments, net disbursements declined $2,557 mil-
rencies as an alternative to the existing   lion to $239 million.
standard loan product, the targeted currency-  Lending rate. Under the IBRD's current
pool loan. The IBRD offers single-currency   semiannual variable lending-rate system, the
loans in United States dollars, yen, deutsche   interest rate was 7.43 percent for the first se-



168   World Bank Finances
mester and 7.27 percent for the second semes-  traded. The attendant portfolio-management
ter of fiscal 1994. By comparison, the other   activities are fully supported by comprehen-
variable lending rate-applicable to loans for   sive risk-management and monitoring proce-
which invitations to negotiate were sent before   dures covering both credit risk and interest-
May 18, 1989, and not converned by borrowers   rate risk. Trading performaLnce is mcasured
to the new system-was 7.42 percent and 7.25   daily against detailed benchmark portfolios.
percent for the first and second semesters, re-  Areas of continued enhancements in the
spectively, of fiscal 1994. The difference be-   management of the IBRD'5 liquid assets in-
tween the rates is due to differences in   cluded the following areas: development
allocations of borrowings to lending and/or to   of multiple trading approaches; integration of
investments and to the weights applied to   computer systems across trading, account-
currency-specific costs.                 ing, and control functions; and improvements
The single-currency lending rates applicable  in performance-measurement and risk-
in the second semester of 1994 (based on the   monitoring systems.
IBRD's cost of six-month LIBOR-based fund-  During fiscal 1994, the IBRD's financial re-
ing in each loan currency (PIBOR in the case-of  turn on its portfolio was 3.53 percenL The fi-
French francs)) were 3.66 percent in United   nancial return on investments in fiscal 1993 was
States dollars, 2.41 percent in yen, 5.91 percent   6.07 percent. The portfolio continues to be
in deutsche mark, 6.28 percent in French    managed in relation to a benchmark strategy of
francs, and 5.72 percent in pounds sterling.  one-year duration. The low retums in fiscal
Interest waivers. During fiscal 1994, the   1994 reflect the combination of the absolute
IBRD waived twenty-five basis points of the   low level of short-term interest rates and cap-
semester interest rate on loans to all borrowers  ital losses due to the increase in rates since the
that had made all loan-service payments within   middle of the year.
thirty days of their due date. (Approximately
83 percent of the IBRD's total volume of out-  wings and Liability Management
standing loans is currently eligible for the  The objectives of the IBRD's borrowing and
interest-spread waiver.) This waiver was in ad-   liability-management strategy are to ensure the
dition to the continuation during the year of a   long-term availability of funds to the IBRD for
waiver on part of the IBRD's commitment fee   lending and liquidity and to minimize the costs
on undisbursed balances that resulted in a re-   of funds for the IBRD and its borrowers. The
duction of that fee from seventy-five to twenty-   IBRD seeks to ensure the avaability of funds
five basis points.                        by developing borrowing capacity in markets in
Loans in nonaccrual status. At the end of'  advance of need and by diversifying its bor-
fiscal 1994, five member countries (Iraq,   rowings by currency, source, and maturity to
Liberia, Sudan, Syria, and Zaire), as well as   provide maximum flexibility in funding. It also
two successor republics of the former Socialist  seeks to strengthen the continuing appeal of its
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the Federal   securities by offering features that are tailored
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montene-  to satisfy investors' asset preferences and by
gro) and Bosnia-Herzegovina) were in nonac-   positioning its securities advantageously in
crual status. Sudan and Zaire were new    each capital market (for example, from a
entrants to nonaccrual status in fiscal 1994,   regulatory-tax and investment-classification
while the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace-   perspective).
donia and Congo cleared all arrears on Febru-  Within the framework of the currency com-
ary 14, 1994 and on June 29,1994, respectively.   position of borrowings required to fund its
Moreover, Syria has been making periodic  lending products, the IBRD seeks to minimize
debt-service payments to the IBRD.        the cost of borrowed fiunds by using, among
other things, currency swaps to obtain cost
Liquid-assets Management                  savings compared with the cost of direct bor-
At the end of fiscal 1994, the IBRD's liquid-   rowings in target currencies; structured financ-
ity totaled $19 billion, or about 45 percent of  ings converted to conventional liabilities using
anticipated net cash requirements over the next   over-the-counter financial derivatives; the use
three fiscal years. At the end of fiscat 1993, li-  of short-term and variable rate instruments;
quidity amounted to $18.5 billion. The IBRD's  and prepayments. market repurchases. and re-
primary objective in holding such liquidity is to   financings of higher-cost borrowings.
ensure flexibility in its borrowings decisions  Medium-term and long-term (MLT) funding.
should borrowing be adversely affected by ten-   During fiscal year 1994, the IBRD raised $89
porary conditions in the capital markets.  billion through MLT borrowings in twelve cur-
The IBRD's liquid assets are invested exclu-   rencies. including $7.8 biRion of fixed rate bor-
sively in fixed-income markets and are actively   rowings and $1.1 billion of variable rate



BorrowAngs and Uobflity Management   169
Tabk 7-1. IBRD Borrowings, Thcai Year 1994
(amounts in millions)
US-daUar
Type                                   Issue                    Currency of issue    equivalnt
Medium- and long- erm public offerings
Global               5.875% ten-year bonds, due 2003         DUI        3.000  =1,15.3
4.5% sven-ycar bonds, due 2000         V         225,000    2,1143
5.250% ten-year bonds. due 2003        USS         I,250    1,242.5
Eurobond market      5.5% three-year notes, due 1997        SA            100       67.4
6.25% five-year bonds, due 1998        canS         .200      151.6
6.25% five-year bonds,due 1998         CanS          150      111.9
Ten-year structured notes, due 2004    DU         -  100       57.5
9.45% ten-year notes, due 2003         Lit       300,000      192.7
Five-year floating-rate notes due 1998  Lit      150,000      962.
Seven-year structued notes due 2001    V          50,000     481A
Eight-year stmctured notes, due 2002   V           2.000.-  19.3
Three-year structurd notes, duc 1996   US$          '100      100.0
Two-year structued notes, due 1996     US$           100      101.0
Seven-year structured notes. due 2001  Lit       200,000      126.7
Germany              Fnie-year strucured notes,. due. 1999  DUM           125       73.7
Greece               1550% thrve-year notes, due 1997. -    Dr          15,000      61.4
-  Hong Kong          4.608% thre-year bonds, due 1996          KS      - 1.000     129.7
Japan                Zero-coupoi bonds. due 1999             V -100.000            832.2.
Portugal             85% five-year bonds, due 1998          Esc        11,600.    67.4
Spain- r             9.75% five-year bonds, due 1998        Ptas-       10,000      75.0
ninted States.       Four-year sructured notes, due 1997    USS      -    25-       25.0
Two-year stuctured nots, due 1995      USS            10      .10.0
Two-year structured notes due 1996     USS            10       10.0
Total medium- and long-term public of ferings.                                 7-962.6
Mediun- and long-tenn placements witk central banks and govemrwnes
Giermany             6.15% five-yar note, due 1998          DM            250- .   145.3
5:27% five-yearnote, due 1999          DM:          250       143.1
Interational         4.00% two-year notes due L995           Sw F .    189         132.8
Total medium- and long-term placements wih central banks and govcrmnents           4212
Median- .nd long-term other placements
Belgium      .       6.85% two-year loan. due 1995-:         BF         5,080      148.3
Switzerland          4.25% seven-year notes, due 2000W       Sw F -    300;        200.8
4.00%  eiht-year notes, due 2002       Sw F          250      1743
Total medium- and long-term other placemncts.                                    5231-
Total nedium- and long-ten borrowings, fiscal 1994                                 8.907.6
Short-tenn borrowings ou,tsanding.
Central bank fadihtfy.                                      USS         2,599    25992
Discount notes                                              USS           560      560.0
Structured financings.                                      US5           131-     131.0
Structured financigs.                                                   2,000    :. 20.2
Short-term      ngs outstandficg as of June 30,1994                            3,3105
a Medium- and long-term bonrwing amonts based on grss proceeds, exprssed at exchag ates prevailing at the time
of launch.
b. Maturing wihin on-e year.
c. These isues VAwe placed with central banksgovernent. agencies, and intematiom   izais.
borrowings(seeTable7-1).After$1.1billionof   nated in United States dollars. yen, deutsche
currency swaps and a notional par volume of    mark, and Swiss francs. The average maturity
$2.5 billion of interest-rate swaps, all of the    of all this finding was 7.4 years, and the after-
year's borrowings, except for $193 million    swap cost was 5.03 percent (see Table 7-2).
raised in United States dollars to fund single-   Noteworthy among the transactions in the
currency loans and minor residuals in vehicle   IBRD's core currencies during the past year
currencies, were fixed rate liabilities denomi-    was the IBRD's first deutsche mark. global



10   World Bank Rrnances
Tablk 7-2. IBD Bormwings, after Swaps, Fia Year .994
(amounts in ;lons of US dollars equivalent)
Befoi swaps      C                 After swaps
Maturity  swaps                Maturity  Cost
Item                A-nount  9   (years)  (amount)  Amount    -  (ve'ars)   (%)
Medfum- and long-term borrowings
U.S. dollanr                    1.4883S  17   7.9       256.4  1,744.9  20   7.9    5.18
Japanese yen                    3,447.2  39   6.6         -    3,447.2  39    6.6    4.26
Deutsche mark                   2,235.3  25   8.5       811.4  3,046.7  34    8.5    5.91
Swiss francs                     508.3    6   6.0         -      508.3    6    6.0    4.02
1228.3   14   5.0   (1.067.9)   160.    2   2        6.88
Total           -             8307.6  100   7A                8,907.6  100   7.4    503b
Short-term borrowigs ouwrtanding
Central bank faciity (U.S. dollUars)  2.5993   79   05                                5.36
Discount notes (US. dollars)     560.0   17   0.4                                     3.60
Stucured financings:
U.S.. dollars                   131.0    4   0.3             .                      3.14
-Japanese yen                    202    1   0.7                                      1.33
Totar as of June 30. 19940    3,3105  100   0.6                              .      495
- zero.,
Normz Details nay not add t totals becma  of mending.
a. Repmsents bormwi  in A_saliandoUs Begian fanA Canadin dollars Grekdduna, Hong Kong dollrs.Italn
ire, Portuguese escudos, and Spanish pescas. After-swap fqps mclude a Belgi finc bowig farSI48 mion equiv-
ale which mas heded into Netherlands soilders with an eistg currncy swap.
b. Excludes the cost of S193 mllion of singkl-currency.loan fding which was held at floatng rates as of Junc 30. 1994.
c. Short-tem borroina outstanding on June 30, 1993 totaed 53.789 mIlionL
Box 7-L IDA's Nur Replmbbment Paiod (Fscal 1991-3)
The three-year period of IDA's ninth replenish-   itation imcrased sharply, from 20 percw t of the
ment (DA-9)-July 1, 1990 to June 30. 1993-   total in IDA4 to 31 pecentL
was marked by a difficult internatinal economic-  At the time of the agreemnt, reached on De-
envonmcnt characteried by.a slowdown in the    cember .14, 1989, on a ninth replenishment of
growth of world trade, recession in the industri-   IDAs resources, donor-country negotiators
alizod world, a plunge in real prices for nonoll    (IDA deputies) identified three progam  areas d--
commodities and a stagnation in flows ofofricial   serving of the highest priority during the ninth
development assistance.                      replenishment periodk poverty reduction, support
Drmaidc political changes also took place. The   for sound macroeconomic and secral policies,
end of the Cold War saw new IDA borrowes,   and the environmutThe deputiesalso rcquested
such as Albania Belarus, and Mongolia, all brin  that IDA's eecutierc directors review on an an-
ing with them fareaching agendas for transfor-   nual basis how well those prionties were being
mation of their counties into market conoies. According to the final revicw of IDA7s
Movemnrttoward political docracy gave tipe-   operations and policies during the IDA-9 period,
tus to reform in several counties but distracted    a subject of discusson by the executive board in
atenton frm reform programs in others.       iscal4,substantialprogress was made in each
economic impact of the1 991 Gulf War, although-  progam area-
shorter and less seve than initially feared, called  Newandrefinedistrumentsfordieclyreach-
for (and subsequently received a response from    ing the poor-poverty assessments that analyze
the association that could not have been antici-   country poverty issues and focus the policy dia-
pated. at the reptenishment's outseL    :    logue on poverty-reduction strategies; poverty-
During the three-year period, the association    focused actions in adjustment lending; and
provided funding to sixty countries. Lending    poverty-targeted investment credits-were either
commitmcnts totaled SDR13.7 billion, an in-   initited during the IDA-9 period: or were in an
crease of 20 percent in nominal terms ovcr the    early phase of implementation By the end.of the
previus three-year peod                           year penod   question,-onnal poverty as
African countries received 46 percent of total   sessments had been completed for sixteen IDA
IDA-9 conimitnents, as did the countries of   countries, adjustment operations increasingly
South Asia and East Asia together. Adjustment   contained measures to mitigate poverty, and 40
lending accounted for about 22 percent of total   percent of the association's investment commit-
lending, while lending for education, population, -ments dmuing the final two years of the replenish-
health, and nutrition; and water supply and san-   ment period were targeted direy at the poor.-



Capfalt  171
bond for DM3 billion. The IBRD raised $2.1   including $151 million raised through short-
billion through structured financing transac-   term structured financings. The cost of these
tions and vehicle-currency bond issues, includ-   borrowings was 4.95 percent compared with
ing $61 million through the IBRD's first issue in   3.58 percent at the end of fiscal 1993.
Greek drachma.                                   On June 30, 1994. short-term and variable
During the past fiscal year, the IBRD called    rate funding aggregated $3.5 billion equivalent.
an aggregate volume of $1.0 billion of borrow-   representing about 3 percent of total outstand-
ings for prepayment, including borrowings in   ing debt.
yen, deutsche mark, European Currency
Units, Belgian francs, and Luxembourg francs.   Capital
In addition, it redeemed S0. billion of United   On June 30,1994, the total subscribed capital
States dollar and yen borrowings through mar-   of the IBRD was $170.0 billion, or 92 percent of
ket repurchases.                              authorized capital of S184 billion. During fiscal
At the end of the fiscal year, MLT borrow-   year 1994, subscriptions to the S74.8 billion
jugs outstanding amounted to S95.6 bilion, or   general capital increase (GCI). approved in
97 percent of total debt outstanding. As of June    April 1988, continued on schedule. Eighteen
30. 1994. the average maturity of total MLT    countries subscnrbed an aggregate S4.4 bilion.
debt was 6.0 years, and its average cost, after   A total of 555,328 GCI shares ($67 billion, or 84
swaps, was 6.72 percent.                      percent of total allocations. including addi-
Sltorr-term funding. As of June 30, 1994.   tional GCI shares allocated to new members
short-term borrowings outstanding were $3.3   that joined the IBRD after Apnl 1988) have
billion, down $0.5 biRion compared with the    been subscnrbed. At the end of fiscal 1994. the
level of June 30, 1993. Short-term borrowings    permissible increase of net disbursements
outstanding at June 30 comprised $2.6 billion    (-headroom'") was $79.9 billion, or 42.2 per-
from official sources through the IBRD's cen-   cent of the IBRD's lending limit
tral bank ficility and $0.7 billion from market  In 1988, the executive directors agreed to re-
borrowings in United States dollars and yen,   view the adequacy of the IBRD's capital every
More emphasis was placed on key groups and   support for cvironmentaly sustainable develop-
services. The role of women was given signifi-   ment in all countries. National environmental ac-
candy. greater recognition,- and gender issues   tion planis (NEAPs)-the most iinportant tool for
were incorporated more frequently into project   developing a country's environmental srategy-
desig. About half of al MDA-supported- projects   were completed by twenty-two IDA recipient
during fiscal 1991-93  duded components that   governmentsand,bytheendofthereplenishment
addressed the specific needs of women- Greater   period, were well under way for almost all of the
efforts were also made to encourage the partici-   otheractive MlAborrowers. Oncecompleted, the
pation of beneficiares in projcct design and im-   findings of a NEAP ar factored int country pn-
plementation. Support for the provision of basic   orties and the plans of IDA and other donors for
social services, including basic education, health,   projects, sector studies, and the poliky dialogue.
and 'nuly plamning, increased substantialy.   IIDA's policies in envionmentally sensitive
In the second progm area-supportfor sound   sectors, such as foresty and agriculture, energy,
macroeconomic and sectoral policies-progress   and water-resource emnagement, wer revamped
was made in most adjusting countries, notwith-   to ensure thatthey promote enviromental obec-
standing the difficulties involved. Among some   tives in IDA's policy dialogue with governments
seventeen countries that continued to rceve ad-   and in the .design of IDA's lending prgram. In
justment assistance in the IDA-9.period, refonns   addition, new environmenal-assessment proce-
focused .increasingly - rationalizing the public   dures were introduced to ensure that the views of
sector (by bringng government expenditures in   people affected by the impact of projects on the
line with available resources and capacities,   environment would be taken into account.
streamlining the civil service, and restucturing    Greater emphasis was also placed on active par-
public enterprses) and on enabling the private   ticipation at the national and community levels in
sector to respond to inproved incentives. Nearly   both the preparation and implementation of envi-
120 credits during the IDA-9 period contained   roninental plans and programs.
components aimed at improving the business cli-
ate, while a quarter of al investment tending         -
supported ifrastrucral development. New n MIDA gMss disbursements durng the period fiscal
form programs were supported in an additionaalucrid-notalCd
ten countries.                                                            -a
ten counlrics.  -    : -     - .: ~~S14_261 mittion (of which S6.196 miRion wsdiracd
To help protect the environment, the founda-    towards the Afnca rqeon and S5.008 mlLion towards
tion was laid during IDA-9 for comprehensive    the countnies of South Asia).



172   World Bank Finances
three years. In the second triennial review  The commitment period for IDA-10 began on
(June 1994). they agreed with the conclusions   July 1, 1993. As of June 30. 1994. available con-
of a management report-that the IBRD's cap-   tributions to IDA-10 totaled SDR3,700 million.
ital is expected to remain adequate to support   In addition, the executive directors approved
the projected range of iending programs for the   advance commitment authority from future re-
rest of the decade. They also agreed that the   flows amounting to SDR8OO million annually
IBRD's current repayment options-first en-   for the period fiscal 1994-96 and further annual
dorsed in March 1991-continue, unchanged,   allocations in fiscal 1994 of SDR190 million for
thereby providing borrowing member coun-   the "Fifth Dimension" program.' Other re-
tries greater flexibility in choosing repayment   sources that were made available during the fis-
terms that best serve their particular country or   cal year included the transfer from the IBRD's
project needs.                             surplus account totaling SDR333 mition and
Reserves. On June 30, 1994, reserves   additional resources amounting to SDR200 mil-
amounted to S14.8 bilion, and the reserves-to-   lion as a result of a change in IDA's liquidity
loan ratio stood at 13.9 percent.          policy. The total available resources for the
IDA-1O period during fiscal 1994 amounted,
II)A Finances      -                       therefore. to SDR5,223 million.
In October 1993, the executive directors dis-  Against these resources. the association
cussed a report on the use of resources during   made IDA-10 commiunents of SDR4,734 mil-
the IDA-9 period-fiscal years 1991-93-took-  lion. Of this amount, 41 percent went to Africa,
note o.Tit, and expressed their satisfaction with   21 percent to East Asia and the Pacific, 29 per-
the use of resources during the period (see Box   cent to South Asia, 3 percent to Europe and
7-1 for details).                          Central Asia,- 2 percent to the Middle East and
LDA's commitment authority- On December   North Africa. and 5 percent to Latin America
17, 1993. the tenth replenishment resotution   and the Car'bbean. The fiscal 1994 lending pro-
(IDA-10) became effective. As of June 30,   gram also reflected the approval of SDR45o
1994. the association had received notifications   milion in additional lending to the countries of
of participation from Australia. Austria, Brazil,  the CFA Zone.
.Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark. Fn-    IDA's commirment fee. For each fiscal
land, France, Germany, Hungary. Iceland. Ire-   year. the level of commitment fee is set by the
land, Japan. the Republic of Korea,   exccltive directors based on an annual review
Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, New    of IDA's financial position. The commitment
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Saudi Arabia,   fee for fiscal 1995 was set at 0 percent for all
South Africa. Sweden. Switzerland, Turkey,   IDA credits. IDA's commitment fce was 0 per-
the United Kingdom, and the United States-    cent from fiscal 1989 through fiscal 1994.
During the course of the year, the requests of
Spain and Portugal to change their membership
status in the association from Part II to Part I
members were approved- In addition to tech-   ITe "Fih Dmeision'' prm prorides supplementary
nical differences between Part I and Part U1    IDA resources to tbose IMA-only countries tiat have out-
memberships, Part I members are expected to    staQdingdebttotheiBRD.arecurrntintheirdebt-scrvicc
make significant contributions to each IDA re-    Paynets wo both the IBRD and IDA, and have im place
IDA-supported adjstnmnt operations. Such supplcmcn-
plenishment. commensurate with their eco-    tarY resources. thercefac. takc into account debt impact
nomic standing.                             arising from IBRD interest payments.



173
Financial Statements of the
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Balance Sheet 174
Statement of Income 176
Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings 176
Statenment of Changes In Cumulative Translaton Adjustment 176
Statement of Cash Flows 177
Summary Statement of Loans  178
Summary Statement of Borrowings 181
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stck and 'Votng Power 183
Notes to Fimanidal Statements  187
Report of Independent Accountns  194



174    lORD Finanil Statements
Balance Sheet
June 30. 1994 and June 30, 1993
Expressed In mlfkbns of US. dollar
1994          1993
Assets
DUE FROM BANKS
Unregrflctecurrendes.S   216                                                                        S    68
Umes curmu'es............  -............................S..26. 6
Curncies subject to restrictions-Note A       ..                                          544           511
760           639
INVESTMENTS-Nols C and D
Obligatiors of governments and ogtw officil enbTes ............... ...............      9.703         10,407
rme depsits and oher iolgairns of banks and ather clirncal istutions  .      .          11.622         9.392
21.325        19.799
SECURMES PURCHASED UNDER RESALE AGREEMENS-Mote C .........................    57                           567
NONNEGOTIABLE. NONINTEREST-BEARING DEMAND OBLIGATIONS ON ACCOUNT OF
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL (subject to restrictions-Note A) ....... .......................     1,5            1.547
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Ndle A
-Amnounts receivable .........                                                           1.133    1.210
- Amountecenqble............................................ -1t3,0
Amouns derred ........................................                                    542            480
1.675  .      1.690
OTHER RECEIVABLES
Net reeves Itom cuarncysaps-NaNes C and D . ............................                  513            775
Reaivables trom investent seurities sold ............ ..........................        23             1,526
Accrued income on loans .2294  2248
Ac=ued mleresta n instm  ts106                                                                           123
5.302         4.672
LOANS OUTSTANDING
(see Summary StatTen of Loans, Notes B and C)
*Total loans.........                                                                   164.300       158&879
- oalan.... ............................. ....................................... 6J0187
I.ess loans approved but not yet fective ........1................                     11,349         10,964
Les undisbursed babace ol eechivelas l..                                               43.660         43.464
1O(91         104,451
OTHER ASSErS
Unamrtized issure costs of borrowings .........................  ........                 494           501
Miscelameous ................................................                           1.245          1,135
1.739         1,636
Total asents .142.176 -135,001



Balance Sheet    175
1994           1993
Uabl lites
BORROWtNGS (see Sumalry Semet of Bowowings, Notes C and D)
S        h         ort                   -t er                       n ......................m..............S. .  3.304  S  3.775
Merfun- and long4er-n                                                                       95.615         92,48B
98.919          26.23
SECURMES SOLD UNDER AGREEMENTS TO REPURCHASE AND PAYABLE FOR CASH
COLLAERAL R           E       C         EE                              D ............ ........................................  1,927  1,772
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Note A
Amounts pyable .........................................................                    - 6                4
Amourts deerred .874  754
8BO            758
OTiER LUABILMIES
Accrued dcarges on borrowings .............................................                                 Z750
Net payables for curq  seps-Noaes C and D ....................................                623           1,972
Payables for inrestment secunties purchased ..........    ........................           3.381          1,715
Due tD the ltnational Developent Asociaion and facilities admnitered by the
Intrnatiornl Deelopment Association-Note E ..........................,........            12             1,013
Accounts payable and other liabilities  ...........................................           579             485
10.512          7,935
ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES-4Note B .......             ......................       3.324          3.150
Total riabil es   .....................................................       .       115562         109.878
Equity
CAPITAL STOCK (see Stament of Subsciptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power and Note A)
Autorized capitl (1,525248 shres-June 30,1994; 1,25,659 share-une 30. 1993)
Subscnted capitl (1.40925 shares-June 30.1994;1,372.648 sga-June 30Q1993)..             170,003         165.589
Less uncalled portion of subscriptions .........................                        159,338        155.058
10.665         10.531
PAYMENTS ON ACCOUNT OF PENDING SUBSCRIPTIONS-Note A ................            ......            87             19
RETAINED EARNINGS (see Statenent of Chagxes in Retined Earnings and Nate E) ...........       14,468         14,032
CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENT (see Staement of Chages in Cunmtative
Translaion Adjusrnent) .......................................................               1394            541
TolW equity .......................................................                    26.614         25.123
Total labIlItles and equity ..............................................                   142176        S135,001
The Nots o FlancIal Staements are an intraI part of tUe S_m-mnt.



176    IORD Finrncial Statements
Statement of Income
For dhe fiscal years ended June 30, 1994 and June 30, 1993
Exprssed in mUlons of U.S. dolars
1994       1993
Income
Incane from loans-Nole B
Interest                                                                                   $7,707      $7.957
Commitment charges.115                                                                                   124.....................................
Income from Invesmn lt-Note C
Interest                                          .841 1.091
Securilies Net gains/(losses)
Realized                                                                                    (33)  167
Unrealizedn...                                                                             (127)  19
Income Irom  secaiies purchased under resale agrment ......... . .......................         86          84
Other income .11 g
Total income ...........................8.. I .                                                    9.451
Expenses- 
Borowing exen
Interest on bormrwings-Note C ...........................................5- 6.549                       6,654
Prepayment Dosts .................................................                             31        108
Amortzation of issuance costs and other borrowing ci .................................         76         109
-neest an seaufies sold under agrments to repurrlse and payable for cash collaeral reWcved ....  46          81
Adinirdstaive expenses-Notes F. G and H .............     ...............................       731         679
Provision for loan losses-Note B ....................................................            -578
Other   expenses    ............................... 6......................
Total expenses.   8........................................................            7      .     3 8215
Operating Income                                                                                 1,161       1.236
Less contributions to spaial progms-Note F ...........................1................             10        106
Net Income .......................................  S151  S1130
Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings
For the fiscal years ended June 30. 1994 and June 30, 1993
Expressed in mllons of US. dollars
1994       1993
Reained earnings at beginning of the fiscal year .... .......                ............. S14.032  n13.202
Transfer to Intemational Deveopment Assocaion-Nole E .(465)                                                (300)
Transfer to Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries-Note E .(100)
-  Tranfer to Trust Fund for Gam-Note E ...(5)
Net incm  forthe fiscal year ....... ....................                                      1.051      1,130
Retained earnings at end of the fiscal year .........$ .......-...........      ......-..   S14,468  -14.032
Statement of Changes in Cumulative
Translation Adjustment
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1994 and June 30, 1993
Expressed In millos of US. dollars
1i94       1993
Cuubthive anslation adjustnent at beginning of the fiscal year ................................    $ 541    5378
Transtion adjustmn  for the fiscal year .............................................           853        163
Cumuative translation adjustment at end d the fis   year ...................................  .1394         5541
The Noets to FlnancIa Sbtmtels aream Intral Pftt o thus SlatSuIUt.



Statement of Cmsh Flows    177
Statement of Cash Flows
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1994 and June 30, 1993
Exessed in millions of U.S. dollars
1994           1993
Cash flows from lending and dvelopment activities
Loan disbursemnts .......................................................                    5(10=2)           (13.0T7
Loan principal  re       p       a      ymfen ts             .       ......................................1-............    .  10-l86
Loan principal prpayments   ...................................................                  -970             460
Payments to International Development Association                                                (452)           1303)
Paymnffs to Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries  ..........................            (23)             (29)
Net cash provided by (used) in lending and development activities . ....................       343           (.Z763)
Cash flows trm finncing activities
Medium- and long-teen borrwrings
New issues.  8.178 1Z445
Retiements ....  .........................                                                   (9,121)        (12282
Net cash flows form short-tenrin borrowings                                          .           (504)          (1.652)
Net cash fIows frmn currency s wap                                      s          .             (176)    (357)
Net cash flows from capital tansactions .........................................                 199             344
Net cash flows tor financing actvities                    ..                                 (.424)          (1,502)
Cash flows Irom operating actvities
Net income .......................................................1..... .                       1.051           1,130
Adjusments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating actiWities
Depreciation and amortization ...............................................                   197             244
Provision for loan losses ................                                                      -               578
Changes in assets and liabililies
Deco        in amcued income an loam  and investnents ..........................              92             110
Incse in miscellaneous        .................a..s.................... :(24)                               .(210)
Decrease in accrued charges on borrowings ...........................                       (180)            (174)
Increase in accounts payble and other lIabilities .........  .....................          05                 8
Net cash provided by operating acivities ......................1......2.....             1;211          1.686
Eect of exchange rate changes on uniresticed cash and liquid invmestens ....... ...........         586              188
Net increase (decrease) in unesktred cash and liquid iestments ..                                   -726.         (2.391)
Unmrsricted cash and liquid irnestmnts at beginning of the fiscal year .                   .  ;18,473             20.864
Unrestricted cash and liquid investments at end of the fiscal year ..... ...................     19,199         S 18,473
Composed of
Irwestments .............S -              ................. .  S2t,325                                         19.799
Unrestricted currencies .....................................................                     216              68
Net payable for inveslmnt securities purchasedsold .........    .......................          (992)           (189)
Net payable for securilies purchasedlsld under resale/repurchase agremnts and payable for
cash collateral received ...........(......                                                                  (1:05)........ ...  13
519.199         S 18.473
Supplemental disclosure
Incrase resulting from echange rate flutaions
Loans oustanding .      ......................................................             S 5.658         S 1.210
Borrowings ......... ........................5..........................                       .- 525
Net payable for currency swaps                                                                1......................... ...................: 1,084  992
The MNes to Financial Statennts wean Integral part of these Statements.



178    IBRD FtnKianol Statements
Summary Statemers of Loans
June 30,1994
Expressed In riNions of U.S. dollars
Loans                              Pefurcl
apaved                                d btal.
TOtl    but notyft LJ_stuu       Loans         loans
Barrower or guarntr                                    l koans    eleciwet en         c  aunsbi-n    auflandhtg
Algera .$ 2,931  S 140  $1.140   $ 1,651                                                               1.51
Agertin..                                              5.696   509   1.298   3,889    3.56
Anmenia .12  -   11   1
Australib.   -
Babums, Tle                                               22       -            4          18          0.02
Bagladesh .60  -   -    60  0.05
Barbados .48   8   20   20  0.02
Beanus .172  42  g9  39  0.04
Bele -.                                                   49  -   25  24  0.02
Bolnia .128  -   -   128  0.12
Bosnia-Herzagavina/Federal Republic al Yugoslavia5...........    1.673  -      2    1   1,652          1.51
Botsvana ....                                            128   -                4    124   0.11
Brazl.                                                11,904       496      4.867        6,541         5.98
Bulgaria.612                                                       148        216         248          0.23
Ca aen8oon.888  -   165  723  0.66
Chile ......................................... 2,491              -          527        1.964         1.80
Ch                        i       n          a ......................................... 11,283  2.145  3.829  5.309  4.86
Colombia .....                                         3,996   179   1,097    2,720                    2.49
Colgo ........                             .....  .      143        16          4         123          0.11
Costa Rica.                                              568  148   79   341   0.31
Coe dilvoir.                                           1.899       -          124        1,775         1.62
Craa...                                                  245  128  18   99   0.09
Cyprus .                                                 153  -   90  63  0.06
Czch Republic ...........................                649        -         308         341          0.31
Dominican Repubric .......... ....................       368        -          93         275          025
Emuador ... . .                   .                    1.33    35   444    824    0.75
Eypt Arab Republicol ..                                2.081       184        454        1,443         1.32
EJSahadoo .369  -   100  269  025
Estonia .                                                 82  50    4    28  0.03
Ethiopia .4  -  -   4
Fii .74  -   31  43  0.04
Gabn.                                                    140  30  24  86  0.08
Ghana .76  -   -   76  0.07
Gnree ...             ; .-.......   1   -    -                                               1
Guatea a....                                             319  --  123   196   0.18
Guyaa .42  -   -   42  0.04
Hondua s.504   -    12  492  0.45
Hungary .3,167   -    993  2,174   1.99
IWand                                                      4       -           -            4
India .......................   14325                               94       4,109      10.122         9.26
Indonesia           ................   17,334                    1,054       3.988      12292         1124
Iran, Islamic Republic f .867                                      -          672         195          0.18
Iraq .                                                    48  -  -   48  0.04
Jama ica .837  48  169  620  0.57
Jordan .....                      ...............        812        20        155          637         0.58
Kazakhstan                              ...........  279  56  101  122   0.11
Ken                         y        a       ? -.......  551        -          -          551          0.50
Korea. Republic ot ............................  ....    3,247      -         B02        2.445         2.24
Knya, Tanzania and Uganda'a..
Lata. .71  -  35  36  .03
Lebanon ................................              .   269       77        151           41         0.04
stho -. 112  -   77  35  0.03
Uberia.                                                   51       -           -           151         0.14
LUhuaia.8 8  26  14  48  0.04
Macedonia. tanner Yugoslav Republic a o                  105       -            3          102         0.09



Summary Statement of Loans    179
Loansewl
approved                             oltobli
TOW     butmtWyS  Unisbursend    Loans         loans
Borrower or goamnlor                                  loans     divelve    loansa    outsianclng    outstnding
Madagascar .......................................        16   $   -      s           $    16          0.01
Ma.a w i.    67   -   _67    06
maa     a         l a       y     s..                  1,501        70        348        1.03          0.99
Miu iau.................                                  14        -          -            14         0.01
Ma ul tiu  s.    224                                                 8         61         156          0.14
Mexc  ......i                     co.............     17.2187     1.530      2.716      13.041        11.93
'Modoa..................                      a...        89        -          1 0          79         0.07
MoroccDo.....................                          5,440       312       1.368       3,760         3.44
Nicaragua................-                                                     -                     d 0.08
Nigeria .                   .......                    4,630 l               1'256    3.374            3.09
Omarn .....49                                                       - ....................  S  6  43   0.04
Pakistan.....................                          4.106       230       1.079      2Z797          2.56
anma .6349  -   118  231  021
Papua New Guineet................                        410        11        119         280          0.26
PaMrguay. .. . .343  115   49   179   0.16
Peru.2, 024  184  404  1.436   1.31
Iau'llni .......    ... " ,I',.-,"14.14..0.01
Philippines ......6...1.4.......    61                             4T8       1.323       4.910         4.49.
Poland.3i593                                                        -       2,716       13291          1.18
Portugal .177   -    48  -129   0.12
Rome.....................                              1,381       401        437         543          (3.50
Rutssia ..2..................                            919      1.590       713         616          0.56
Sltts and Nevis ....1 .. 5,440.312                         1,36B 3,760   3.4
SNcLueia. .3 -  -2   1
SVincetand the Grendines.1                                          -           1,2                !     ;6-  - 3   3
SUN* .49 -  -   49  0.05
SePlles. ..9 -    .4   5
Sierra Leone .....................119..83                                      -            3
Slovak Republic3..296                                                         118    178    0.16
Slvenia .255   1    106   149   0.14
SriLanka .....................                            57        .--                    57          0.05
Sudan.6....-66                                                                                         0.01
Swaziland.9                                                                    -           23          0.02
Syrian Arab Republic.418    -                                                  -          418    0.38
Tanzania. .128  1                                                              -    128  0.12
Thai land .2...................                          078        -315                 1,763         1.61
TSnidad and Tbago .........99    -                                             39                      0.05
Tisia ...                                              Z357  115   574   1667   1.53
Turkey....................                             7.797       100       2.270       5.427         4.97
Uganda .                                                  13  -                            13  0.01
Ukriane .27  -   26   1
Uruguay ....................                             779        67        165         547          0.50
Uzbea. Republi    22  -   21   1
Venezuelao.2741   394   701   1,646    1.51
Zaire8 8..                                                -         -          -           88          0.08
Zmbia.. .                                                232  -   -    232  0.21
yianbabwe ........... ..................803                         90        155         558          0.51
Subtolal Members...............                    163.079    11.329     43,347      108,403        99.19
CabbeanDeopment zanka                                                          17          2           0.2
ITeriona  Finance Corpoation .1.159                                 -         296         B6           0.79
Tot-june 3. 1994..164.300   811.349    843,660    8109.2                                             100.00
Total-June 30, 1993.8158.879   810.964    843.464    5104,451
Indates amounts lmss tn $0.5 million or 0.005 p15                                                   (
V s 2 u  e     l    a         2,741       394       - 701       1,646         1.5t~~~~~~~~~(andued



180     IBRD Financial Stotements
Summary Statement of Loans  rcenuec                                                                      -
June 30, 1994
Expressed In mdilons of U.S. dollars
Nons
.Loans toting S5,196 million (5J996 m1 ll. -June 30 199IS  have been approed by the I3RD but the related agreeris hwe a  been sied. Loan
agmens ttling 56,153'nillion (54,96B million-une30 19931 have be  siguned. bulihe loansdo nt becoa  ieri e and disbuw ens theridefr
do N san until dhe bhamm and guanlorshn iany. s krtin aetons and bnnish  tain drarfs to On IWRD.
2. 01 he undisbursd batance. the lEBD hs enled into irncable commnibnens; to disburse SI,El million (51.53t millio-June 30.1993.
3. Tofl loans outstanding as of June 30. 1994 includes 9X9588 million (580.132 millior-June 30. 1993) at variable intesl rates and S;9,703 millioni
(S230619 millIon-June 30.1993) at fixed intenest Raes.
4. In some b cs  lans lwere nde. wih the garantee o a member, in countries atdi at the In were IWcIuded in ta muser's lterrits but which
subsequenfy became Independent and separate mebers d     IIIRD. Liabilities lor tese loans ace shn under tIre name d the uioinal nmeber (whose
grantee cadinues unatleted). Loans with outstndirg balnces equivalent to SD14 million Ml million.-Jme 30.1993) ate stown under husiha, the
ur,antct. bul repront obligatis ol Pap  New Ginea
5. See Noles lo inandal Statemenls-Noles A ad i.
6. One loan with an outsandn balace equivalent to S1 millon ($I niKIon une 30. 1993 Is shOn under Cite d'Sirs (Guamrto) but is also parlialy
guaranleed by Burlina Fase.
T. Includes portions d loans made to corporations ol de loamer last Alican Coonmtny.
& Members are jointy and severally abie.
9. t      hese loansare trt benefit alfBe Dians, Baeatdos. GmG lQre    JanaadLTrinidadad Tobago, and ierntories ot the UntedlKng2m (Aciated
Sift eand Dependencies) in bie Caribbean ellionr who are sewmatly liable as guantos to fth ext  ot subloans made In tr lenit
Summary of Currencies Repayable on Loans Disbursed and Outstanding
-                                     194            99         Currecy                               1994          1993
Austian schillings .........          S 189         S 175       L m       m francs.                 S.    35      S     63
Belgian Itancs .                        235           220       Malayian driggits ..-:-...41                            42
Canadian dollis ...........-164                       178       Netherlndsguilders N:.2.701                          2808
Danish kroner .                          75            71  Norwegian kroner e..- 65                                     62
Deutsche naL ......          .        26B142        23.412      Portuguese esds ..........                22            21
European cuffency units .......           17           19       Pounds sterling -.-.',           25                    245
Finnushnmaddwa .-.                       48            44       SaudiArahian rlas            '            91            91
French fancs ..... ......... .          783           732       South Atrimn rand ...........             41            42
Inian rupees...............    26  Spanish peetas. .                                                     116           116
Irish pounds .......-.-....             -28            24       Swedish krnor ....... .  .---72                         73
talin   .................               183            185                  .....11855                              12.235
Japanese yerL ..     ..               37,175        35,190      United States doliars .               28,753        28M20I
Kuwaiti dinars .                        154           151   Other curencies .....22 -                                   26
Lens outu      g dg.....           $109291       5104.451
Maturity Structure of Loans Outstanding
Perod 
July 1 1994 thmugh June 30, 1995 .............................................................:  S                        1,
July 1. 1995 through June 30. 1996 .................... ....                                                         11,638
July 1. 1996 thmugh June 30.1997.. ......... :11,893
- Jul 1,19t fmgh Jue 30,199J................... .......... ..... ............................ ..;1Ui
July 1. 1997 through June 30. 1995 ...................3.... ...........                                            1,245
July 1. 1998 through June 30. 1999 .11;245
July 1. 1999 through June 30. 2004 .36,194
July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2009                                                                                  12...................  ' Z947
-         July 1. 2009 through June 30, 2014 ...........           .          .      . .............                             233
Toal .5109.291
The Notes b Rinabl Stement are an Ibepl pat of tese Statment



Summcxy Statemnent of Borroilngs   181
Summary Statement of Borrowings.
June 30, 1994 and June 30, 1993
Expressed In millions of U.S. dollars
Medium- and Long-term Borrowings and Swaps
tarni- NW mm-mm bmnhinps                        Sew agwnu'ls                   Na    ltyibloiphns
Weiglhd                                 igt
aviap           Cnnq sgm             anmp a
RPricia awtdint           Cat (%)       piSSes (uceiviles       [MMa) (.)
199           1993          199t         1994        1993          1994           1994        1993
Ausbjianlats....                     504          5  498         11.15       5(95)       5(5q3          (lIt?)        s(1 5lG         (5)
Aausltan Chip                3~~~~~~25      274         7,1           In3          (58)        (&44)           222          206
Odanimba .......c                      523           483          7.39         (4111        (434)        (175             52          49
CaSm diabs                            1.345'        1.719'        9.05        (1I5)        11.5114)      (575?           IS?          134
Daishi* rnu e   ....r.                  48            122        10.0           (41)        (121)       c1lam)             I            1
Deasa nk ......         .    .       11.111w        9.12$d        705         11I4        10.129
(49).        2fl         22.595       19W?
Eumpeoinhljmq wiis211                                4            7.25        (1=93        (11131        4225)           158        .311
Ftih url     .......                   114            zm          968          (112)        (26          PA70              2           .3
French Inc.     .     .1...42..1'                   tilT7         924          (7            97             9            564          530
Gu*adrixi .......      .    ..        .63             -          15.22(2                                (1522)             1          -
Hoq Kuigdbil...... . .                 40             271         7.84         f0)          (257)        1rm                            4
ltisipiads ..    ....     .61                         -           7.75          (80)                                       I 75       -
hia Ike  ....... .         .          sia         3a10'         10.74        Q2490)       (1295        (10.7c            16i          12
aNEMM i......                 s.p$301              suI            5.4           549    in                nw
(155  1.855)        (r.1*1        3421        3310
Kuaiultdus ......       .    .         1AM            99          7865           ---102                                               99
Luwnbcwglzacs                          .92            142         826           (5)          (84)        PA 3)s
MSflnS gidn ~. ... .            3187          31154         7.35          559          554          .680
(-1q35      (1271)         (270)         1251         2.497
Nm eaZIm ddlk..... ... .                6             175        itt           4148)        (174)       (1240)            -             I
)Jomegiakme..       ..                  35            34          9.55                       -                            36          .34
Powulupese .m    ..... . ..           327            195         10178         (5)          (194)       (10.3n             3            1
PO.NS daft    ......    .    .       271l           23'           18u         (1.415)      (12681)       (9.19          1.35        1311-
SpI~~~S paths . .      .~~~ 1.801          1117         111         - (17        (1.054)       (nIl              14          13
Swedi5h kinn .......    .    .         118a          .219        11.42        -(118)        (27l        (11.43).          -             1
bwbs km........        .     .       5.758          592           1.08         4*442       4.680          5.0r         10am        10372
Uni's SlM   Wilas . . .. ...        24.71?'        25,01?13       1103       .2164         4.030          U
(27   3 '.15)       (7ii1F        24-15        MM85
Pkus ndmuudzetl (Swsuns)
~uI........                     (24)           (47)
Taw ..........59525    SI9S
aL See Noles to Financial Stalements-Nole C.
b. Indtudes mo-mupn4N bIIoIWEgs which hav  bemn Tecorded at Mur discouted values The aggregat tame amounts and discxWded yatieS. MmIn
bwuowings at June 30.1994 aid une fl1 1993 are:
in millions af U.S&-dolIar equkitaents                                                      Dscwtdin
Cuners                                           1994:               1993              1994                1993
Canadman dolLars 1.......                         :145'            S  156              $120                5117
Deuscie nwrf          .......1n                                     1tie                319                 2m
Italianrim .......                                  64                 64               - 51 .               47
United Stae dollns .......                         84                25w-               572                 60B
C. Includes incomfe and   oms  ftraInIqP ratrest     asu   At June 3D1 1994 and June 30. 1993.3uf D I as to  ed into ntremt fal sM  apec.'fl with
respecto maonlmal pxinc#ial monotms as folows&
hi million                                                Currecy remint                   U.S..doltar equuient
Currecy                                               .1994.            19               1994              1993
Cmadlurdallas...........149                                               149           5 106             5 11?
Deutsche nut  ...........-14J9                                         13.5               9.442            7.932
*FiendhItracs............964  98                                                             182               in1
1Iaan rire.......                                    20000                 -              -12?               -
*Japaneseyen.......                                    12=               97SO0                                922
Pounds sledlng......             . ....100                                100           ill155               149
Swedish krnor .......             .- ...300                                                 -35
Swiss francs.............                               13124            1.124            -841.              742
United States dollars...........                        I,9             4.2              3.91              4.521



182      IBRD Rnancial Staements
Summary Statement of Borrowings  confinuscQ
June 30, 1994 and June 30, 1993
Expressed In millions of U.S. dollars
As dl June30 199 ard June 30 1993. 95 pemw  Sl tde aboe notional oriolpal aounis of tese Interest rale swo aeents are Imm lulting ries
Into fbl  lales
d. Indudes te followig variable bitr re boowins at June 30.1994 and June 30.1993. which bough swaps have been lrasonned inl he financial
equivalent at fixed rate borrowings
In minions
Curenc amin                 LUS.-dhllar equhialnt-
Currny                                           1994            1993            1994            1993
Catudiandollas .100   100   S 72   S 78
Oetsce mnad- ..-..........            .            425             2- 268                         117
.irapeancurrmncyunfls                              640             640            -774            734
lbiat lir  .......                              550P00         20DJ0-   351                       129
apanese yi e     .         ...........          14950            97=1     0      1.494            922
Poundssterling .       ...................          25              25             39              37
UniteSlesd las .......... ..fl                                   1.377.          1.602           137
e. IncLudes $175 minion ($173 minior-_e 3Q 1993)  rmwed frm He bntler  Subsidy Fud The Inemst Subsidy Fni. ien SMined its resours
Irmn volnt  contriburions hom menber governmerenv was e isht to ssidie the ines paryt lo die OM0 or        losn
1. The weighted aver  cost al medm  and long-h  boroIngs ousnding aiJune 301994, alte djushnli bor sapaii .ws 572prt (6.9
pemit-ne 30,1193M.
g. Indudes borrowings d S125 milon or Unitd tas dolbs an! S69 mullion a Autalian dollr equivalenlt hriwch efective ires rate has not yp been
tied. These tran tins are allocaed to single sricy [lo
Maturity Structure of Medium- and Long-term Borrowings
July 1. 1994 though June 30.1995 .     ........................................................                    S0.674
July 1. 1995 thhmugh June 30, 1996 ..........................................................                        9.527
July 1, 1996 through June 30.1997 ...................................................                               12,685
July 1 1997 thmugh June 30.1998 ....................-....                                                           13.225
July 1 1998 thmugh June 30,1999.    ..........................................................                        72
July 1 1999 thmugh June 30. 2004 .........................................................663
Ju 1, a2O4 through June 30. 2009 ....................-.                          ....... .                           3.182
July 1. 22O thrmugh Jure 30,.2D1                                                  1 .029
--July 1, 2l4through June 30.2019 ..............................                                    ..... .          3,591
July 1, 2019 thmugh June 30. 2024. .                                                                                 1.4
Thereafter .........................                                                                                   335
Short-term Borrowings
-ghte
-tbidpal uding              cos 1%)
1994            1993       -T94
Short-erm Notes (U.S. dollarsr
Prncipal outstanding at lam value .......................                  .        S 691            1,306.
Net unamoid d discounts and psrriwis .(8)                                                              ( -13)
- - Subtotal                                                                    .. -             -..................683 1i23
Short-term  Notes (Japanese yenr   ...21 ..-                                                                          1J5..
Central Bank FacIllty (U.S. dollars) .-2600                                                             2.482          5.3-
Total .............................S3.304  3J775    4.94
-  Inclues intel rate sup agremets wit rpe  to noional prinapa amout of S652 mrillion d tiNted Ss doabs and $21 nllon eqalnt o
Japnese ye
The Notes to Rnueial Statmennts are an kItga pat of the  Stmtmemta.



Statement af Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power    183
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power
June 30, 1994
Expressd In amilons of U.S. dollars
Subsalipfln                               Ydng powe
Purmtlage              Ammmis.                     Nwuter    PewsSa
at        rOWt      puidhin    AInOuds subject    o           of
Member                              Shr         fWw       amounts   (Note A)    to Call (NWt A)   votes       toa
Alghaistan..........                  300       0.02      5      36   $  3.6        $     33        550       0.04
Albanima...........                   830       0.06         100         3.6           97         1.08        0.01
Algeria............                 9,252       0.66        1.115       67.1         1.049        9.50        0.65
Angola.....2.676                                0.19         323        17.5          305         2.926       0.20
Antigu and Brbuda292                        0.02          35         CA            35           542       0.04
Arentima........... 10.052                      an7         1213       103.8         11          10.30        an7
Amunia ...........                  1.139       0.08         137         5.9          131         1.38        0.10
Australia .....21.610                           1.53        2.607      171A          2.435       21.85D       1.50
Attstia............                11.063       0.79        1.335.      80.7         1.254       11.313       0.78
Azertbaijan ...........               924       0.07         ill         1.1          104         1.174       0.08
Baluns. Tihe.........               1,071       0.08         129         5.4          124         1.321       0.09
Baran ............                  1.103       0.08         133         5.7          127        1I35         0.09
Baingladesh-----------              4,854       0.34         586        33.9          552         5.104       0.35
Barbados ...........                  948       0.07         114         4.5          11i         1,198       0.05
Beim.ar     .......s..              1.865       0-13         225        17.0          208         2.115       0.15
Belgium............ 2-                          Z06        3A495       215.8         3,281       29.233       2.01
eFelb............                     329       0.02          40         0.6          .39           579       0.94
Benlin......487                                 0.0           59         2.5          .56           137'      0.95
Bhufan.....479   0.03                                         58         tO0           57           729    0.05
EBoliv(ia............               1.002       0.07         121        8L0           113         1.25        0.09
Botswarna...........                  615       0.04          74         2.0           72           885       0.06
Bzi.............24.946                       1.77        3.009      185.1         2.824        25.196      1.73
Bulgaia ...........                 5215        0.37         629        36.5          593         5.465       0.38
BurldnaPawo.......487                           0.03          59         2.5           56           737       0.05
BuundL ...........                    402       0.0           48         1.8           47           652       0.04
Cambodia...........                   214       02.0          26'        2.6           23           464       0.03
Canrooatn...........                  857       0.06         103         6.6           97         1.107       0.0
canada ............                 4,795       3.18       5.404       334.9         5.069       45,045       3.10
Cape Verde...........                 508       0.04          61         1.2           60           758       0.05
Cenral African Republic .......         4       0.03          58         2.5           55           734       0.05
Chad ............                     484       0.03          58         2.5           56           734       0.05
Chile.............                  6,931       0.49         836        49.6          787         7,181       0.49
China.............44.799                       '3.18       5,404       335.0         5.069       45.049       3.10
Colombia ...........                   352      0.45         766        45.2          721         6.602       0.45
Comors ...........                    282       0.02          34         0.3           34           532       0.04
CDngo.......                          520    0.04             63         2.9           60           770    0.05
costa                 .233                      0.02          28         1.9           26           483       0.03
CkeOt dlvre .2........                516       0.18         304        164           287         2.766       0.19
Croatia ...........                  12871      0.09         155        13.6          142         1.537       0.11
Cyprus............                  1.461       0.10         176         6.4          168         1.711       0.12
Czech Republic ...6.308                         0.45         761        45.9          715         6,55        0.45
DEnmark............                10.251       0.73        1.237       74.6         1.162       10.501       0.72
Ojibauti ...........                  314       0.02          38         0.7           37           564       0.04
Dominlica...........                  283       0.02          .34        0.3           34           533       0.04
Dominrican Republic .......         1,174       0.08         142         9.8          132         1.424       0.10
Ecuador.2.771                                   0.20         334        1182          316         3.021       021
EptArab Repubic 'of     .        7.108       0.50         857        50.9          80?         7.358       0.51
El Salvador...........                141       0.01          17         1.7           15           391       0.03



184    lIBR) Financial Statements
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and -Voting Power (coMiued.
June 30. 1994
Expressed hin miNions of U.S. dollws
asubrriplions                             fladg PoMn
Pearfige        ~~Anowuls                   Natty    Percntag
ot        TOMa      paidIn    Amaurts sbilc      of          GI
Member                   ~~~~~~~~~star  low     amouns    (NoW A)    to call (Note A)  wiles      tkwa
EquatorialGtine .........            401       0.03      $   48    S  t.6        5   47           651       0.04
Estonia .............                518       0.04           62       2.8            60          768       0.05
Ethioia............ 978                        0.07          118       4.7           113         1,22       0.08
Fiji. ---728   0.05                                           88       3984                       9Th   0.07
Finland.                            8.560      0.61        1,033      61.9           971        8.810       0.61
Fenrce.69,397                                  4.92        8.372     520.4         7.851       69.647       4.79
Gabn ............                    554       0.04           67       3.6            63          604       0.06
Garrbia. The..........               305       0.02          37        0.7            36          555       0.04
Georgia..                           1.584      0.11          191       9.3           182         1.834      0.13
*        ~~~~Germany.                        72.399      5.14        8.734      542.9         8,191       72,649      5.00
*         61w.~~Dm-856                                   (WA           103       1023            93        1.106       0.08
Greee............                    945       0.07          114       11.4          103         1,195      0.08
GIifada.531.                                   0.04           64        1.4           63          781       0.05
Guatemaa....                        1.123      P0.0          135       9.3           126        1.373       0.09
Guina............                    725       0.05           87       5.0            82          975       0.07
Guinea-Bissau .........              303       0.02           37        0.6           36          553       0.04
Guyana ..t.........                 1058       0.0           128       5.3           122        1.30        0.09
Haifi.............                   599       0.04           72       1.7            69          849       0.06
Hondums.---360                                 0.03           43        1.3           42          610       0.04
Hunga'y.8.0--                       B50        0.57         971       511.0          913        8,300       0.57
Icelad ............                 1258       (109         152        6.8           145        11508       0.10
India ..............                 .795      3.18        5.404     333.7         5.070       45.045       1.10
*         ~~~~Indonesia ...... 14.981                     1.06        1,807      11023         1.697       15.231      1.05
aran,slamc Repubic..t23.686                 1.68         2.85      175.8         2.682       23.936       16
Iraq ......08O                                 0.20         339       27.1           312        3.058       021
Ireland............                 5.271      0.37         536       37.1           599        5~5211      0.38
sal............                  4.750      0.34          573       33,2          540         5.000      0.34
Italy....44,795.    3118                                   5.404     334.8         5.069       45.045       1.10
Jamaica.2...-                        578       0.18         311        10.8          294        2.828       0.19
Japan.....93.770                               6.65       11.312      703.5        10.608       94.020      6.47
Jordan .1.....388....               I          0.10          167        7.8          160         1.638      0.11
Kazalihslarn..........              1.675      0.12         202        15.0          187        1.925       0.13
Kerpa.............                  2.481      0.17          297       15.9          281        Z.711       0.1 9
Kiribati............                 261       0.02           31        0.1           31           511      0.04
Korea, Republic of ........         9.372      0.87        1.131      67.9          1.063       9.622       0.66
Kuwmait ....13.280                             0.94       1l60        97.4          1.5035     13.530       0.9
Kyrgyz Republic .6.......             21       0.04           75       3.9            71          871       0.06
Lao Peoples Democratic Republic.    100       0.01           12       1.2            11          350       0.02
Latvia .77..........                 T7        0.06          94        5.6            go         1.027      0.07
Lebarnon ...340                                0.02          41        1.1            40          590       0.04-
Lesofth............                  372       0.03          45         1.3           44          622       0.04
Liberia............                  463       0.031         56         2.6           53          713       0.05
Libya ............                  7.840      0.56         946       57.0           889        8.090       0.56
tulmfani...........                  846       0.06          102       6.3            96        1,096      .0.08
Luxembourg ..........               1.652      0.12         199        9.8           189        1.90        0.13
Macedonia. fomer Yugoslav
Republic of..........              240      0.02           29        2.5            26          490      0.03
Madagascar ..........               1.422      0.10          172       8.1           163        1.672       0.12C
Malawi...........                   1.094      0.08          132       5.6           126        1.344       0.09



Statement of Ubscriptions to Capitol Stock aind youing Power           185
SubsopipUnS                              Vtn paw.
Peflp                  hnawjts                    Number    Percenage
ci        Total     paid In    knaurts subjec    at         af
Menber                    own~~~ire   low       amouts    INa A)    tn oan (Note A)    vates       tow
.................    8244       0.5        $ 995     8 59.5        $ 935         8.494       0.5
M aldv        di....... es...        469       0.03          57        0.9           55           719.    0.05
M       a li 5...........             52       DAIS          79        4.3           74           902       0.06
Malta.............                 1.074       0.08         130        5.4          124        .1.324       0.09
Marshall Islands, h l.263.....0.012                          32        0.1           32           513       0.04
Mauritaia.                           505       0.04          61        2.            58           755       0.05
%trudtlus ..........               1242        0.09         150        6.7          143         1.492       0.10
Mic...........                 118.804      1.33       2.268      139.0         2.129       19,054       1.31
Microneia ..........                 479       0.0           58        1.0           57           729       0.05
Moldova ..1..........                  8l      0.10         165        7.6          .157        1.618       0.11
Mongolia...........                  466       0.03          56 .        3           54           716       0.05
Morocco:...........                2.791       020          33?       26.9          310         3.041       0.21
M.ozambiique...522                             0.04          63        3.3           60           772       0.05
Myanina    ..........              2.484       0.18         300       16.1          284         Z.734       0.19
Namnibka...........                  855       0.06         103        6.4           97         1.105      .0.08
Nepal ............                   958       0.0          117        4.6          112         1,218       0.08
Netielands..35.503                             2.52       4283       264.8         4.018       35.753       2.46
New Zjealand..........             7.236       0.51         873       51.9          821         7.486       0.52
NMwdga............                     e0      0.04          73        2.1           71           ass       oi06
Niger.............                   478       (103          58        2.4           55           728       0.05
Nigeria...........                 7.102       0.50         857       72.5          784         7.35        0.51
Normey .....9,982                              0.71       't.2134     72.6         1,132       10,232       0.70
Oman .....1.561                                0.11         1889a                   179         1.811       0.12
Pakistan ...........               9.339       0165       1.127       67.8         1.059        9.58        0.66
Panama......216                                0.02          26        2.            23           466       0.03
Papua New Guinea. .......            726       0.05          B8        5.0           83           976       0.7
Paraguay ...........                 690       0.05          83        4.7           19           940       0.06
Peru .2...........                   992       021          361       29.1          332         3,242       0.22
Phirippines ..........             6.844       0.49         826       489           777         7.094       0A49
Poland.1.......908... I                        0.77       1.316       79.6         1.236       11.158       0.77
Portugal                  ...      5.460       0.39         659       38.5          620         5.710       0.39
(aWar............                  1.096       0.08         132        9.0          123         1.346       0.09
Roniania ...........               4,011       0.28         484       30.5          453         4.261       0.29
Russia............ 25.140                      1.78       3.033      262.7         2.77        252390       1.75
Riwanda ...........                  587       0.04          71        as6           si           837       0.05
SLlUtts andNeis ........            275       0.02          33        0.3           33           525       0.04
SL LCia ...........                  552       0.04          67        1.5           65           802       0.05
St Vincent andthe Grernadines ..     278       0.02          34.       0.3           33          -528       0.04
SicoTomt and Prncipe......           278       0.02          34        0.3           33           528       0.04
Saudi Arabia .......... 44.795                .3.18       5.404      335.0         5.069       45.04        1.10
Senegal............                1,163       0.08         140-       9.7           131        1.413       0.10
Seychelles...........                263       0.02          32        02            32           513       0.04
SimrrLeone..........                 403-      0.03          49        tO8           47           653       0.04
Singapore.........320                          0.02          39        3.9           35           570       0.04
Slovak Republic .........           1.823      0.13         220       17.9           202        Z.073       0.14
Slavenia...........1261                        0.09         152        9.5           143        1.511       0.10
SalomonisWands.                      288       0.02          35'       0A             34          538       0.04
Somalia ...........                  552       0.04          67        3.3            63          802       0.06



186    1BD Financial Statements
Statement of Subscripftons to
Capital Stock and Voting Power (
June 30. 1994
Expressed in millons of U.S. dollars
S&ubsritons                               Voting pow
Percentge              Amounts                       uwr    Petage
of        TolW      paid in    Amounts suibe     d           et
MuTt        -                      Shes        lotal     anmlts   (NaMA)   tle jl(NoteA'         waias       toW
South Africa .13462                             0.96    S  1.624  S   98.8        S  1.525      13.712        0.94
Spain                              23.686       1.68        2.857     175.6          2.682      23.936        1.65
Sri Lanka                           3,817       0.27         460       26.1           434        4.067        028
Sudan .850    0.06                                           103    7.2                95    1.100    0.08
Suriame. .412    0.03                                         50    20.    48                      662    0.05
Swaziland ..................         440        0.03          53        2.0            51          690        0.05
Sweden ................            14974        1.06        1.806     110.2          1.696      15.224        1.05
Switzerland . .................    26,606       1.89        3.210     197.2          3,012      26856         1.85
Syrian Arab Republic ...........    1;236       0.09         149        105           139        1.486        0.10
Tajikstan ...................       1 060       0.08         128        53            123        1.310        0.09
Tanuiia ..................            727       0.05          88        7.9            80          977        0.0?
Thaiand ......        . .           6,349       0.45         766       452            721        6,599        0.45
Togo .                               620   0.04               75    3.9                71    570   0.06
Tonqa.  ...        --m---            2o7        0.0           33        0Q3             33         527   Q     .04
Trinidad and Tobago.1.495                       0.11         180       13.4           167        1.745        012
Tunisia ......         .              719       0.05          87        5.7            81          969        0.0?
Turkey ......                       7.379       0.52         890       529            837        7.629        0.52
Turkriistan ...... ..........       526        O004          63        29             61          776        0.05
Uganda ..................            617         .04          74        4.4            70          861        0Q06
Ukaine ..................          10,908       Q77        1,316       793           1,237      11.158   - o.n
United Amb Eirate  ....... ..     -             0.17         288       22.6           265        2.635        0.18
United Kngdom ...............   69.397          4.92       8B372      539.5          7.832      69.647        4-79
United Sttes ......        .      24893        17.66     3M.025    1.9402           28.085     249.143       17.14
Uruguay ..1      .....1....                  ,   .           190       14.1    '      176        1.828        0.13
Uzteluistmn ...... .,,,.,           1,399       0.10         169       12.1           157        1.649        0.11
Varn.                                 d6  0x04  71  1.8   69  836  0.06
Venezuela .11.427    0.81    1,4aI   118.5                                           1.260   11.7             0.0
VietNam.                             543    0.04              66    6.6                59          793    0.05
WesternSam a . .............         298        0.02          36        0.5            35          548        0.04
Yemen. hepublic of ............     1.241       0.09         150       10.5           139        1,491        0.10
Zaire .2............ .           . 2,543        0.19         319       25.4            293       2,893        020
Zambia ...                          1,577       0.11         190       15.6           175        1,827        0.13
Zimbabwe.. ..... ....         .    3.325        024          401       22.4  -        379        3,575       -025
Total-June 30. 1994 ..1.4091ZS                lO. M -- 110.66418                  S159t338                 -loom5= 8  1.00
Total-4une 30, 1993 .......... 1.372648                 S165,589  510.5307        S155.058    1.416.648
May dow fm te s-m o indl fges sn becus o roundg.
The Notes to  cialattlumfl -n Inbtal pta of turn SbutmLmt4.



Notes to Financiad  Statement            187.
Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
The IlEMrs fnncal sblat   are pmd in cmnbomity wih ft    -          discstinued in 1964 with respect to subee  tms and no luher ad-
coutng pdnciples gealy ac lptd in the Unitd Sues and with Inter-    dilns are being made to iL
ulft    Accounting Standiars
-sianS Accounting .madoni.             Tlre General renm consists al mmings [mm prior fiscyeals which, in the
judo lt el be xeufive Directors, snould be rained in the tWs busi-
Transladon of Currencies                                            ness     -
The Ws8lf ncalcW st      areressed in urnsto U.S doilssely          Surplus  nss at eamrings tra  pri rg ye   wtich are td by
tar the rposeo sunmmrWrig Mte IRD's financi position and flserts    ft IM   ui  a tibet decision Is made on their diswasiion or It  con-
d its opeaons tr the covenience ot is m   s and other in re         diVans a tanser lr specie uses havne een met
parties                 --                                          Uniiacaed rt irae cosiss    o eanings in te currt tis2  year.
The lORD is art intmatul irgazalian witch co ts ii operations in -t Commuting in 195D a   eoror all at the Unalltolad net incme his 
mraedest all at its astbes The IBtRs esou   are deive  umn its      been allocated to the General rse    Addtiually, upon approa oat fe
capitla. borwings. ard acacuulied eanins bn to  wmos nemnies.            dto Gmos         lshave been made outo Unallocaed net inmn
The lDRD hasanuonber ot g a policies aind at mirimizingechrnge-rae  tofthle   alet nalBt DelapriAssodan (IDA) oartaciliesadminmrted
risk in a rmjaurcv envinm         The no 8I  mathes its borrowing jg..  by IDA). te Global Evio it Tnrst Fund. he Tmtea AssstTanceTst
gatans in any one  amur (u (altr   p acities) WM asff in de swe     Fud tar te Union   Sovie Sacialist Republics art Su
arr;st as prrbest by its Ares af Agren    tna,ly by holding or
telding te paceds  its bmowings in the sDacencies in which fly     Loans
ate bMmed In addti. te IBRD peiadially exlertakus  scy  mner-
sions to more dosey math the mencies undeflying its rnd ei          All o ftl s  ou s are nude itn o  guaraneed bymern s  em pt knis
withth    at ft oa   uding loan Wnh espet to its e erns the         tin the timatinal hnce Crporation (FC) The nujomity oat lhe lD's
IiR[) does not covat ane  mncy into anolter ee  for smal amwouts    tans have repyent liatns in various crecies detmined on Iru
requr  to meet certail obliations and opatoal nees                  tusis a a ar    Wy ,Raolin ssnm, whc is designed to equalie exlrge-
rate risks among boroe   Snge curency loans are being alerd on a
Assets ard liabRiliie are trainslate at ffwie errctrage rafte at the end ofpt o *ft  Ecpt  gfh Cerain Wm  whh   e  lr to the cuwenc
ft pered. peioc e and enpese a s are translated at the mady ad   ateand all sle uncy
at  athes on whIch qt are ecognzed or at aae        e exchange      loans a repaate in tte arnmcies disuseL intest on all Wmas is
ras in ad  dubring each month Trastatirn adus     wm ft aeep          ui d in tre curencies dised and oustand
lion at h     elting i capil  subsipfiom described in Nae & are
chaged er credite to Equtiq                                         Inorent drffe costs assacia   wit originating loan - epensed as
incured as such maants ate consided im   ntma
Valuatton of Capital Stock                                          Tre 1BM  does not resed   interest or princi  paymt osn it loans or
paripate in debt rech iing ag    nt       respec to its  as In
In the Ats at AgrernL the capitl stak at the IBO is upxessed in      cept  cass. her, such as wven il rnta at a harmed
tents oa 'uS. dlas at the weigt and fineness in eket an July 1, 1944-  proecd has been dayed.   lon morization scedule mar be mordife
(1944 dollars). Following the abolibmon o gold as a cainrnci denoainatr I to awa substnti repayments pruir to projet cmletion. It is fe polity
ol the manelarysrstem and the repeal at tleprovision o te US law    o the IBRD to pla   in naccrl saus all lWm made lo or. guane
deiing ft par value   be U.S. dollar in rms at gg    ftl pre-tistng  by a mrnber ottfe lORD il p a . ltn. orcher  ds ilb respect-
basis tor hanslatinq 1944 dollars into arert dollars ar into any atm  to ary such lan are aordue by more thn six montrless the 1311
cwrncy disapea  The Ejmtive Direrws ot the END have dcidedL         taTent deermines tt the overda amount will be calleed in Die
until suh time as the releant  visions at te Aticles of Ageemen are  irmnediae htr   in adSdti  I develMoptrt cred.ls by IDA to a  snter
aend, ht te wrds 'U.S. dollars t the wt and fineess in et           gemmrrent are plae in nonaccnjal sabs, all loans    a ta mseber ga-
on Julytg. 1944- in Arfide U. Seion 2(a) at tE Afides of A tre e dtt  entwrIaim sobe pLced in nonauaW stas by Ie  fD. On the dae
te 1011 are intpreted to mci theSpedal Dmwing Fight (SOI) introduced  a menmes kon are plaed in nonacra stabs unpaid inest and air
by tIe hitatial Monetar Fund as the SOF was valted in Wms a US.     charges acned on toWrs tstanding to te in ber ame deducted Irm the
dollars inmmediately beone the introuction atte btai mthd ofvalring  incone at re orent Perbd. i       ard other chages an nornuing
ft SUR on July 1. 1914. such value being S120635 tar one SDN.       lans are induded in incont only to the   tM   payments h ve acataly
been receied by the IBRa On  t date a nmuter pays in hull all owerm
R etain e d- E arnin g s                                             3tiOI  I =. k  n  e5 %   cm     Z walo     staIrs   its    eligibility   tor   rw
rnEa g- a  orttt and all 's oveW intee and other chges including
Retained earnings consists ot allocated snout (Spe    rse    General   font pu  ys are reconized as ne in the curent Perio
resere, and Surplus) and Unallocated ret income The ORD hUs not de-  The IBRD deterininesftaccumulat  pvwision  r loan lsses based on an
dared or paid any dividends to its menbers.                         assessnent f colleotihility rif in ft lott loan pordfio. including loans
The Special reserve consists oft loan cemnhsiens wt        ns se    in noaual sII  Tthe accumulted povsiwon is pericalty adjused
The Special 9ma consists ofe-e S is-me-oOrts s_ aside Pwb _in    asdana reviwotftprevICiranes andwoldbeusedto meet
Artde [V.Samti6.SofftAatdleofAlDceenuntwlase to be hdd in                 Wma   as  M            ui   moiu r  wf  f   =o
liquid assets. Thes asst may he used only lot ft purpose at meeting  tIne  cn spvrovsin (and of the snot ot ft Special reserve). fte
liabuiiesm at tHe END on its borrowngs and guarantee in Ire event at ecs  odb  nlde  nM   d iO                fnt iioe 4sref
ddauts on lo(m made, ptdpatt in, or guarned by te 1R0D. The         to the aImeuluded vin ate deontent  at nwe  or oa   to irnes
Specia resrv assets are irtluderi under lnvestrnents. comprising bOga-                '''   ead!scaoccetnnon
lirs ot the United Stles Govermt its agecie and other olficial en-
Lies. The allocatiap a such co  asions to fe Special resere was                                                        (                          -n-



188      IBRD Rnarclal Statements
Notes to Financial Statements  tx
Investments                                                       opeira onwly wt I  cnEt Dth rmpeiw  netr  and tr ad-
ninishain e eess. The eqiialenerl t 5 at.444 million (55.197 million-
Th 1BR10 canies its imen securies at nwketivalue. Bot realized ad  Jme 30.1993) has been ubeltr ending prposes, wilt sch comet
undized gahis ad losss ae indued in income trm invesb ns From
tie to ime. the ERD etbrs it  vorad conacts tarb te sale orpurise  Miananance of Valie: Aue IL Sedon 9 at ll Arddes al Aree-
at imement seudlies. hese t     _scti    ;e ecorded at the lime at  rntn proides tar mainance at wat-. as f the lime at suzbscripble at
cattitunenL                                                       sud  rshimed enides. riing (1) te mnuer to male addifnal
pa-ents to lie ILRD in tle neot aw le par vaiue a its osenq is
Dute tohe nane d de invesnw   htld by he  EID and ils polices      edud or be bre      hange va l its ar   cy Is sin le   opinirn 0
gawming te level and use at su   ie nts. the BRD dassiles tMe       eIBRDdeprd'toasipficanteasinitsltriosanrd( beIBRD
investnenl poto  as an deleent d liquidily in the Stbu  of Ca      D torein   thseinernbe   m ev erl   1 the D par walued its curecyis
Flows                                                             irased.
Shiafreoencis no loge hiave par vallues mainlertance-ol-value aonts
Fair Value of Financial Instruments                               a         eb n u             m   r    a      afls
Thetefii carris lls tinveStteSsE nuSwa iu Arvs atdaer tinarci     crncagansnthedad s     w iu d    teEID  4 capUtd basedan dm1974
iteneb are ni  t ierded in tet accatmis a  dm IN the,l   a re disclosed  SORL Uenbesaresrequied to make paetsto lie  Dil theiraows
in Note Cat additional  itrea      scond dadeprecialte sill* d relaIv to  tandard ou vale. FurTllmnior. me
i Cioe Off1i s dcde to adopt a polio' at reimwsu4y r,el5rs
mhetairvle d finanl inswumelu Ms  are shunerm appraitiates teir  whose cumricis atiwae sgnicanty in  fl at ie Sit. eot vlue
carrying Wa2U'k                                                                           urece   ar   on nrtetc-tvu
-   -         -      -         -             l~~~~~~~~~ith nspec to mgrktacd cwimes o  anulo0an. mawo -tvue
.  bica insburnmets for which market quobas awe avaitable hae bee  obigations bmT w ective od as sit curencis are rcverd by me
valuedat flpevailingmaedevalue Fancial  tumetsforwhich nwk        39f. The maintnie4-vaue amnt  rlating l rsticted arencies
quofm  wre no; teamly avile have been va'ued using metoidologies  outfnlan aie inIukd in Aonts rured to nuiin vale of currency
and assumptions that necessanly equire the use of subjediec judgments.  hodings-amou   deferred.
Accortgly tbe amu  waue at whidsch n lrimnna  irumnnts coudd bh
erwipd in acufentnaisa n orwterweyareadltalyrehangable            Mrnbershlp: On FuMny 25. 1993. t i lOWs ective Dirctos
is not deteminiabt-                                               decidedliatifieSocialistFedeal Republic al Yupslavia (SF)hatand
tobeamerrteratme ERDanduthteRepublictdosBiaandmrginaL
RertssjflaUlons                                                   Ie ReApuic at Crmaia. the   mr Yugaaw Republic at  _Mceia, me
Republic of Sowenia and the Federal Repubic at Yugavia Sebia and
CUrin regasslians d tm prior yeas kMrntio bve bee made to         Montenegro) we audrizEd to simad to the SFtrs mentbship whe
cnfm to mte o,rn  erN pntUr.                                       mitn equirent are met. Thme at Me fe tsuasa Repubjtsfl
Re lcs    Croatia and Soenia ard V  tfer Yugslav Republi: of
Macedonia--tnve situ' hrwn muemes at Me 1BRD. The paid-in portio
Note Ai-C      Ital StOck, Restricted CurrencisM                  a the SFrissisuted captli allocatd tol the r smsso  Repucs
Maintenance of Value, and Membership                              (pe Repubtk ol Bosl arl Htaeoa and die Feda  Republic ot Yu-
goasvia (Sebia and Morlenepa)) is included under Payments an aut
Capital SEcic  At June 30. 1994. te IBRD's captal comprsed        at perdng subsciirts.s
1.525248 (1.525.659-June 30. 1993) authorized shales. of which
1.409.235 (I.37.64-Jun 31L1993) share had been subscibed. Eacht
se has a par value otO.1 mirion 1974 SORS, valued at the rate ofinmncing and Guarantees
S12035 per 1974 SUR. Of the sbscribed capital. S10a,65 million    Loas: On Augt 3 1993. Me IBRD's Eotive Dir s approed a
(S10,531 mirinr-Juum 30. 199  has been paid in. aid t  reniuto    one-year ines wyir at 25 basis pt-s an dsbursed and ainstmg
S15935 malian (St55.058 mion-June 30. 1993 is subjectlo call only  liar al pantperiods    e          i meisat gear eldung June 3D.
when meuired to rfes lte obrigations of Me IBIRD creted by brrow    or  1994 for aiie bomrroW r For theti    ys endeo June 3. 1993. me
guranteing [mm As to S136002 mllion (St32471 milion-June 30 .  hamS waer axpowved ves 35 basis points. On August 3.1I93 the
1993) ie restridko on calls is imposed by the Artces ot Agment and  Ex ve Oi  isa  eIn   uteso endd mep etr   eoawiuwt lee wdaiv  alO50
as to 523336 million (5 7 minion-June 31 t9931  by resotutions oi  basis points an undsue  loansItil bor        tor anaditua priod
n3  Board oa Goveror                                              o  - year.
Restucad Currencies: The porion d mpital subsc ns paid i          On Fubrry 25. 199  Ihe ItROs Exetive  Dimors dedd     utblte
to the 1B0D is dlvicd into tW  part (1)S1p67 mailion (S1.053 mllio-  S ocis Fraal Republic Ygoslavia(gSIaM   had ceasd to be anentber
June 30. 1993) initially paid in gold or U.S. dolbls and 025959B mllion  d te 15ID and ft the Republic oa Bosnia and Heina. te Republic
(59478 milfioaune 3M1993) paid in cat or noninters-bearing de-    at crau. me tome Yuostav ReP ic of Moria. e Republic d
mand oblitllions denominaed eimer in the wrencies d tie r tdive   SIwePa ard me Feal Repuric S Yuosglaia (Sbia ad Montengo)
m bers or in US dollars. The ararntns mentioned in (1) above, and O)  OMlY) we auftrized to sucee b  m SFRY's _mtip whm coain
S779 millim (656i million-Jne 30 1993) which were rprctased by     mremus   were M  kindrig  ing ka a Ihal ae t with mhe
mmns with US. dolars and 2ii 5B54 million (S205 millio-June 30.    tIBRD on me IBRt lomss nad! to or prarated by Vt  SFRfY wici me
1993) which were me proceeds fromn encashments of US.-dollar-     pabcuar sces   Republic  asned.
denmina    otes wtidi are included in U' amints mentined in 2
abov are beely usable by te ID inany d is opeatoim The ption t     Thue t mte frie sussr Rqpublics-e Repblics oi Croatia and Sb-
me anoints paid in U5L-dollar-denont--ed nres are unshed by te    vuiia and me tommrYugosba RP ic of Macedonla-have sinre became
9  itamacordbwncewuakthessgt d beteeethememersandthe              muttrs of me Mn Wilth teseto me FRY. in Febiuay 1993 the M
MMD. The rernaiing anoints iaid in be cusacies dcOmen es. re-     reached an aPewi   tial Republic tor me appoiomet and serice
end to as rst          cumnces. ar usable by de IRD in ts let i   d debl due ID tl IBfD en loamwade to or guaanteed by reSfRYai



Notes to Financal Statements             189
assmted by  Fe FRY. whil chramimned a Fetna  1992 intim agmnit      Cofimuncing and Guarantow  The lBRD has ent     ito agre-
bwn  the SFRY  ls cnisting a die On publics ol Bosnia and Hzea-     nubs fr lamn syndiced by oer finsnial Institaions iter by a direct
gonia  Macedonia. Monlro and Serbia) and die IBRD pertaining.       pitpo  in, or a parti guarnie  . loans far    beneit d netr
arung othe things to mcr loans. A t o te date hureal nf debt suite  countries ora paia gpwlae ot scrities ssued byan enrty eligiMe for
payments have been received by the l3RD Imm te FRlY. Wit respec to the  IBRO loans. The liBRDs air  pauipations m  syndated loans am included
Republc of Rsnia and Heregovia. a preliminay undetndig was          In repded loan balans.
reached in June1993 on the loans nade to or guarantee by thei SFRY to
be as-nied by ht Reoubric. Untl an annm l is*         l      beS    Guarantes ot 11.181 million at June 3Dr 1994 (11.134 million-June 30.
rting bDa Republic are included wit ft Ians assumed by Ihe FRY in   1993 were not fnckled in reported loan bala   S173 million d Omse
accordance mitl die lORDsabov-metioned _ag nwih de FRY (Also       gIoaes we  subij to cal at Jine 30.1994 1150  aillion-itne 30.
se No A).                                                           1SM).
Al June 30. 1994. no loam payable to te lRD o  thean Mmae riterFed  The I0RD has pfaili guafled te timey papyntS ineresam tson
to in me following paraphs west overdue by more dun tree montes.    curiae Mms t Mav me been s&d At June 30. 1994. 1hs gnaree
approximatigS4 million (X5 million-June30. I993). wmeesunjotb tol.
Al June 3A  1994. de loans made lo o garanteed by certain member
ountrie and two oth cmunt-he FRY and de Republic of Bosnia and      Sb      ry Lein91- Limit Under the Akles  Agement It  tal
Hez ngaa-wdi an aggregate principal balance outstandingat o12363  -  amnoun amtnding of 9aranees. pDartiCipaions in loans  d diect loans
milrion (SZ497 million-Jue 30.  93  of which 51.009 milon pSM72 ad ebyl eURD maynot bantoceedmg                                  nt
million-Jne 31, 1993) wasoverdue. wer in namRua stas Asaosi0        of me sum at sub*ibat capital. resees. and surplis On te lOfs
date. overdue interest and other charges in n t d  t        loanstobled  lBaance Sheet msem and surplus correspond to  nm beled Rebined
$128 minion (509 mullion-June 3Q 19933 r these loam h   Mt bee      aamngs Cumul trn        adjionalustmrL and Accumuslat lwnvisibfr
in nicrl sau  income tam loans for de fisca year enied June 30M      lan losses. The IlBRDs Exeuti DireO storaises  guernespusup n
1994 wDuld have been ighe by S149 dilon (S244 millio-June 30.       tw viih aU gt iessued by tWRD        becounledlwards ts fliit
1993g. A smuny of netber cunties and reulics with ls or gpar-       at die tins Iey first become callble. irespee oflfie fihuitooud of an
ane  in nonaul status lolo                                          act  calL At June 30. 1994. such totl aaount as 1S09 billion or 58
pect (57 pee            30.1993)  die Satutary Lending Lhai
in millions  ;                 Note C-FlInancial Instruments
June 31 1994
Investments
Phtcipal andin ed
CmbyfiWpuir     agstning       haresde   Nm ua  ic            The lORDO carides dts invetmit secues including corrspoding deny-
outstandingc   overdu      e Nanaccrala, iu                 s. at rkaruet ataMoirgly. Me aryng mont rep-
Db egOvia4K                                                         resuits  fts lair value d tde partoFi. These lair values are based n "rWed
Faesd RepWic at                                                  mart Wi     where availble. i qwtd mats rices are not available, tair
Yugosia  .......   St.652        S SC      September 1992        values are based on quotd markd prices d compaable irssument..
traIl.    ....             48           43    DemenbeODw 1bbdo-lifblrteteaiisfufRDkhdngo
Liberia ....... 4 8    .....            43    De2June 1987          hr bothcn-and    r         st  secrilim t  IBRD li ii J uneg t a
SUdn ...........            6            1   January 1994           fist S afmnizned deales and owtrpame. Cedit limits have been es-
Syrian Arab Republc       418         42i   hebu;y 1E  -            faMishe tor each cunlerpty b Iype d inrfuMent and mauity category.
Zaire .............        88           24    Nov.Ter 1993          The annualbd rate at sun on avrage inmet net of apunient to
Totl .  ..          . 23           1.637                          repurdase and caslh olaeal rceivK  held during the lIscl year  ded
-           -                               June 30. 1994. including bo realized and muaized gains and osses ws
3.568 pecnt (6.09 pectune 30. 1993).
During the fiscal yearended une30. 1994. Congo and the omnrerYugoslav
Republic of Maedonia paid St all f their areas and therdore lons to  As pat O its aerSl portoia margaewnent state. de IBRD inests in
tern  mne oit aut arule sat  As a resul ioe Im nm ns tor            goenmet obigtons ana time depoits. These c       ies also include
fiscal yEar ended Jne 30.1994 incrsed by S52 minim corTespaoding to  financial insbnments with cf-baianme sheet risk induding ftie fboaid
-inome that would have beanacrued in rviou  l        For the Nifl   conts WPer  lowd contrats. opsons, and hort sales.
year ended June 30. 1993. the inrease in loan income from loans to                               G           o
unrie or        ut of nanaccu l status abring  i                    able secusiiles. bonds. nsal  aid otlher oigaldons ise or uncondtiion-
ANNUiorL                                                        -  ally guaranteed by govemments ot countries or other official enities
An anaWsis oa Ve changes to lte accunulaied provision for loan losses  inclding the agenies and Imnusumentalities o Ith govement at a cunty
appears belowr                                                      or by mIute  oerganians.
in-tWilrions         Thie Deposits: Trne deposits include certifies a deiL tIime de-
In milfiors          posits. btans acaptnce  and aow obligations issued or uncondgiwri
-__________________                   p1994-           1993       aNsy gianleed by banks and dber friaci institutions.
Balance, beginning of ft fisr wear      S3.is           S2540      Fhas and Forwardsc FRes and formard cor ace covnb
Proision tor loan losses .......                          578       fordeytedddleiyofsecurikisormoneymnaleinfwnefin viidithe
Tralation adjusnents    .........                                   seller agrees to make ddfivery t a specified b     dale od a speiied
- -Balance. e d o  tiefiscal year ................ Si4-    5        inrument, at a specified pmc or yie  Coveed brards are agreeme
:  _ _ _ _ __end_of_am_ _s_y                      -                             -.-....



190      IBRD Financdal-Stot sents
Notes to Financial Statements
in whSk  cash In one arncy is caned into a dffernt currency and.    based on dsuntedtsl ute shflawsusinglhe'atealthicthelBED could
sinvmhneously. atharD  dnea agreet is exemled proidrg for a         undetaeborrowings d pwpunle maturlties atJune 30. 1994 pbsa 50
tmre mange at te tWo curencies in order to rnver ft onncy           basis paint sprd
Variable rut. loans: In 1982, ft IBRD ntgad its intre  rale drs
Options: Opions ar contalts ta allow le holder at the edien to      by moving hrm tixed rat to wiable ra  lndin  The rae d       on
puodase or sell a financial Insnnun at a specied price and within a  varable ale ltans is bass an flu IERDs awn cost of ualified barwings
*es p fderlod al Ome ronm  e sener or to Ie prda    ohe Upow As     plus a 50 basis point sprea. result  In a passhrugh d ils average
aselro opdi,s.te 1BRD receives a premium at the ae and  nhears      howing cmsts to tose membes lg bened klmt 0BRD loans Sine te
tre risk a an unfaoable cne in te p;ice d the financia in nt       rlerest Wae for vaiable 'ate loans is based on Ie ieest rate at the
undeying ft apton.                                                  euliated booings. the ir dalue oa viable re tars tas been esfinmted
based an 1th  elatip al te fair vlue lo ote canyin  dlue of lhe
Short Saes: Sltr sales are sales t scurites not held in te l 's     underling bnorwings.
portolio at the tine oF te salt The IBRD nst pudue the socrdty al a
aer date and bmrs fe rsk tM  th mariue vaue at lIe seciy wil move   Single currwncy kmn  In 1993. te IRO intrUdued single anmy
adversly bet   en f  ime of lIe sale and the Ine the seaniy must be  loans onapitst basis.Te alesctrged an singecu r caam aeeua
deriered                                                            t the six4-ant rlerence inlemak dlered rate Ior the applicable aamrcy
Asuninrary -thecurrency .oipasihan at luvesirts. Inducing cur     prWevailn on tIe snim t rse date, plus a cast maginemulato de
A summary of de a    nny cmposition of n vegmentL alt_ lul   sBambs  laWs wetW  agenagn reate to the six-t London    ba
purdhsed under resale agreurts. atJune 30.1994  d June 30. 1993 is  Olre Fale en its borrowings kuing single curr   Ws. calcubled iro
as foam                                                             lie preWious smnester at aweraged ares crmncie  plus an int
Iii trillions      spread atSO basis pOals. Since Ihe interest rats for single curncy loans
arembased onte infe a rat qaied borrowintgs. te lairvakue oa single
Curec                              1994                 1993 lorrecy loans as br 9nated basl an tie reaionship of the lair vaue
Dae  mani .                       S3           -      S  774        to fe casing idue ' .Aderlying borowings
apanes yen  5...2                                       5.189
Poundssterin                        1.479               1.455
nited Staes dolas .1.11.491                       -    t9U8         Borrowings
Ote curFecies ...                   2211                1,999
TlOt  ...,,,,-521.911                               520.3         The flowing Uti  dles bM  canying and esinaed lait dues l e
borowigs portfolio as of Je 30. 1994 and he 30. 1993
Loans                                                                                                    In nllins
:Tetallowing table reflects the aryinand esmated airvalues alt e loan                            1994                 1993
portolio as oa June 30. 1994 and June 34. 1993.                                           Cying   E      d    Catying   Eu
In millions                                           du       fair value    vakue    lair value
7    - 19964- - -   - 1993               Short-tem   ....... S  334  S  3.34   53.75   S 375
Medium- and lang-
Carrning   Eed Carn              Esined           trm  .........       95115   iOtO2    92.488         99.5Q6
dWue    fairvalue    value       rvaltlue      Swas
Cuffen,         -      -y 
Fred ra ......s 1 3   S 219.3    S 23.619  5  26.340                                                                        1.196
rates  59.551  94.234  8(t932  u.~~~~~~~         Net payable..                 Z         197
VWGU%- Vaf    n     nes 89...        -1 94.234- Oq8l32 86              - Net receale         (513).    129)    (775)    (1.312)
Single currecy                                                         Ints rae               -          893                1.093
loan ras. ..          37         37 -           3
-                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~97,725   1M5W  93.6JS    10E,4B2
TTo ta..         109291    S115.8X9   S10.451  S12762              Toatal      S        lOt C 29   10.81   S97.460   S1D4257
All of the EROs loans dae  iae to or guardeed by countries that are  The esnaeo  fairwa   a         n a   qu oted nailt prces wer such
;sbersdo he lORD. exe        Irt mseloansnmeto the IFC. TheEPO don  pricesareavilabtt Wheeno quoted matuprice is avaitabtle the fairvalue
not currensell its loans nor isthent-mrl of loams mmparaleto tame   i eslinated based on the cost at whih te ER  could cm sty udrtake
made by the IB. Ihe IBRD has nemsuzert a toss on any of its las.    boringswiM similarternsand reaining maturities. using theseonday
altough from tine tD time certain borrowers hae Ionnd it diliult to aIne  tralS yield acu  The lair due at swaps epesen ft estmated ast S
timely pamls for Pobatrredpeniads resuling in t'Ar loans being plaed  - epacing iese contra  on r,   dat
in nonaccrual stabs, Several boowers have enrged tram nonaccar
sus alter a period af tine by brjing up-to-dam all prinipal  iemnes  Providingliqudlty andminiiing thecostultnmdsarekLa obtest e
and all ineest paymerts. indudn  -nterest and dher dg   an overdue   M's overll borrwing sbatey. The IBR1D uses swap in its bainaSg
principal payment In an  npt to regnize te rs inherent in these     stategy to lower t  oveall cost a its brwings for those r es who
werdue payments. te IORD maints a pavision ar lun lbes TIe          beret ban fm   t        The IBRD untes siap bausactns with a list
baanceot the IAm IuI    proision far loan lossesat June 30 1994 was  at antioneed conepati. Credit and maLtrity limits twe been estab-
* 3.324 milan (53.159 million-4ure 30. 1993).                      fishd for each couterpaty.
Fxed rat koens: On ans negoiated prior to Jty 1982. the IRD        Tlie aeage cost at borrowings out  ig. indudmrg sholderm borrw-
chrges intee  at fixed aes. The estimated air value of Mmn lans is  ings. dring the lisal sar ended Juoe 30. 1994 ws 6.74 peent (7.01



Notes to Financial Statements            191
percl-,wue 30 1293) recidng a reduclion  inest ense   of $34        Note E-Retalned  Earnings and Allocation of
mIllio (S3157 millon-June 3D. 1993) as a  sut sa Sps.               Net Income
Currency swaps: The IBR1   has eneed Into curencq swaps  which t    Retad EamW  Rined eRarigs cmriues te folloing dements as
poeeds el a bormWing art conveed Inlo a dIffert curency and. shnui-  GI June 30. 1994 and June3  1991 -.
tneonusly a fonwd  o agearnent is eaed priding  rasched-
ule Sh*rertnagesofithe bwowdes inrderorecorverthe urrency                                                        hI millins
convted The cornbinaltin ol a turwing and a currency sywa prodics               .1994                                       1993
the racia  equvalent d substihrting a bowing in Ie cunq   ained
inft iMUalcmvsionforeorigirnal bowg.                                Speda rese   ............              S  293          S  293
General reser   ............            13,124          11.144
Interest rat  swaps: The IBRD undertes itrst  re swaps. which       Supks -.- 1.465
brsom  a razed rate pyen ohbrlgion in a partiblar canocy ti  a      Unlocaled nd income lr lie
floag rte obliion in  a curency and vicersL acsal year .............u. 1.1,01                                               -1.130
Note D-RIsk Exposure of   nnclal                                      Tl                        ...           .49 S14.32
Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet RIsks                            On August  31993. fe Eudie DectosSallocated S890 illion otthen
=-ine earmed in Ihefisca yar endedJune 30.1993 to Ihe General res
In de nnumd course of business, tfe IBRD is a lt lo a Varietb Of    On Se1em9ber3audm oBtdnOaos awaov                   erns Slo
oil-balance sleet lianca instruntS to m1nae its  posure to matI     million to the Debt Raion FacTlyaamilstred by DA and a transfer to
fbIrs. ThesefInal is s hIvolveeleanentsdoaeltand manrtrss           VDk by way ot grant at S140 nilon In an erivaentamount In SDRs. ut-
meaess d theamounecu m   edan the balanceshes CrGaita nresents      d fnet iin*             h gm t yew psn      Jule3    1993t Ontbesame
the maiunm pd(flW aouunirng loss due to poss7be nonperfounce by     ofy. the Bad of Genors ao appoved a  aLser ot S1.010 milion to
olnligps and counteaIes wi  b  terms of the onnlrA  Marlet Tisk     t  Gere   e5n hn Sutus On Sep                24,1992, asamended on
rpresents the pteil loss dre to fhe deame in t value of an off-     Nonber 11.r193 fe e   Boadu or Glu eOn s appmbe 2   hansaer add So25
ralaw    e triancy a inrumt ntd prim aniq  d            in cia erest  million in an eqalert anout in SORs [rm Surplus as a gr   to IDA
.ii surcesien rik as atrJunThedsk        idmed 3.w-n mms            A     ien tlent replenisnet ot IDAs  mas  would becne ellctive
W.. f-.aam  eshetw rW sasatJtne30.1t994 and June 30. 193 is given   Wht  occured an December 1T. 1993. On Noemnber11. 1993. te Board
___________________________________                                 o .  Goenors apo.ul a baVser. by way of granK otl SS  million fram
bminlions          - . Sutplus to  tlheTst Fund kbrGaa, b be afhiniserf byq 10
;1994            1993        Transfers to ktdntm al Deeopment Association: The
Board   Goenors appoved tasfe  to ID  totaling S3.Omillion tomr
FuturME          .-S                                                           not inco me w fore macal r ars ended June 30, 1964 tou gh
.uhues  a-t- -..                         -                  -     June301981. ad June 30.1909 though June 30. 1993. On Septenber
-  T*latl cbact vlue ............   5.6.101       -  ssm         30. iii.1heBortfal GosmwvedabtsterTctkbywydfgrK
potGrentit  no Sonuae  bitoof S140 million inan equivalent amun in SDRs. In addition on September
counterpartis.                        10              13       24.199Z as amedr on Nomber 11. 1993 Te Board d Guemnors
- FarA! cont r a                                                    approved a         d SfW325 milrion to IDA,  trine trl r nishmt  o
* Totl contact Le ......le   4.                                    Is rnus would becne effective, wich occurred an Deember 17,
- *w Cdit exposure due to            - -  -1993. Trarner d 51 e23 million rnmied pable at June 30,1994 (9590
poilifl nunpenolnna  by                                        millionJune 3011993).
Cve efrodcwnt                                                  Tmrnses to Debt Reduction Facity for DA-Only Coun-
* G rossdt niceivaties                 1.485            9S        Mse The Board d GOvers apped  ates to Ibe Det Reducion
-          * Gmoss payables                      1.5113            997       FacKily for WA-Only Counties totaling S10O rlllon thmugh June30. 1993
a*Cmss paole s .........                                         On Spne3Q  99   e Bd  of Governors approed a urthe  anster
potential nonpefonarie  by           --                        dof St1O miNlion to l Debt Reducion Facility for IDA-Only Cwnies At
countsr .aries         - -            19              12       .i 30. 1994. St31 miNlion reraind pa e (55  million-4une 30.
Options sold                                                        1993).
Total conacvalue           -          .C117         -   48       TransfertotthTrustFundtaorGaz ;OnNovembrber1.1993. the
Short sals                                                           eard of Gvernors appmOfed a tasr to the Tnrut Nnd for Gaua byw  y
* Tda  c    t vue .      .           ,994              303       of gra  o 550 millio. At June 30 1994. SS   million remained payabte.
B ORRnSW
Currncy swaps
* Gross receivables  ....2                          18.947       Note F
* Gross payables         -          20.             20.144       Administrative   enses are net d the managemen te dl o545 minion
* Credit eposue due to                                           (S467 million-,une 31 1993) cged to IDA and s107 million S95.
potential nonrmance by                                         mUlionJtnme 311 993) chaDrged to reimnbrsable prir. kIduded in et
coLurterlarlhi                      -728           1.312       amounts  arged  to reimntrsable programs ae located dmges d.S21
lntere ate swaps                          -                         millon (S20 million.-une 311993) charged to IFC and SI million (SI
* Nonal principal                  *16.341          14,592       million-June 30. 199) charged to Tle Mullateral bvsre  Gurate
a* Cridt oeposure due to
potential nonpedomnarc  by                                     Ageny (Mtl.GA).
counterpftes .....-.....            . Il              98       Contbons to specda pgrams represent grtsragrinal rearh
- Less thn 0.5 minion                -the controlat od rhowdcsi. and ofter   o                                tdapO    activitie .



192      lOBIM  fnancial Statements
Notes to Financial Statementstn
As of Jut 30.1994.1 b  IED has prvided tar liabiiles asscaled vit   The weightedaeaage dismnt rae sed In dffmt ing theataal prese
Iheestimaltd costs al beneIts Wodoed tombmer or bdh   le yms aner M vwue et te praied bneft obligation was 825 perad ([75 percent-
enipone  but beoe nliremot The effc i not marIal to the tindal      Jue 30(1993). The d  el  projefd coqwisaton edes was calculaed
stateents                                                           based on a scale   t provides lo a deceasing rate at stay huse
depending on age, beginning wit 13. peret at age 20 and deceaq to
Note G-Staff Retirement Plan                                        65 percd at age64 ThI epeced long-tenn ral reha] -n assels ws
9 pecnt (9 perntJune 30. 1993).
The IBRD has a defined beit retirent plm cvering ubstanialtly aIl at
its sat. lTh Plan als cvrs sutislantialty all h stall ot IFC and M..GA
Under Ihe Plan.   fts am baud an te vr of atcnutbory smice and      Note H-Retred Staff Beneft  Plan
the highs hryer aveage ot pensionable mmeratma as dained in the
Pln. with the stafl conibLng a bed p qtge ot pensianala  rnmu-      The IBRD has a Retired Stall Beeits Pbl (IRSP) lD  prvides cobin
neratfaL ad lie Il1 contribuin the  naireder of the acarially ddef-  beMth ae and lde irancseu bflts to rims. All stall w   me enmiled
ra   cost oa fute PlaI bent The IBRD uses tie aggrgaW metod for     in f3  insurance pogms while in active seic and who med cain
demeiing its contribution to the Pbn. Tle amoundt of tat contribution  requlr- are eligible far bfts when Ith  rach early ar nmoat n-
apwprit es teet periiodc pension cost as deailed below. All cmbilions  tinent age while whg tfr the EMD. The RP also covers mes s al
to 1e Plan aid all adhr assets an inowe held torte pupss   dt Ite Pbn  IFC ad MJ.GA
are held by de 13 separately ran the afltiassets ard inon oe l e IBRD.
IDA IFC and M.lGA and art be ued onlr br the bent of the paticipants  Reiees cofibuna lel an t wad lile insnce based onteamol
h fhe Plan and their bneicaries, urtit all tWilities to tem hawe    pa  ot cveage  Reiecontibutions iwad healh care am based on tength al
or prvfad tor Ptn assets cnsist piily  f eqity atr bWd inom         surice and age at retirmend The END anually contbts the renuinder
seimudtis wt mailer holdts o rata  rd este and atv I 1tmnt         oa bie adtaraly detemnied cost lot huhe bents Ml contributions to me
SFPM and all a    ass  aid incomne held tor purposes d the RSuP are
Net periodic penon wst har END participats hor 3e fiscal years end  held bhe by Ihe  spRD  atelny frn f her asses arid iancme at ofe S.
June 30.1994 ad June30. 1993, cnsised oa te lolming amnpanent       IDA. IFC. and MJ.GA ard can be used only tar the benefilbfhe participants
in the RBP and ther beneficiaries uil all liabilities to em  have been paid
Irt n     -l e      or poWided tor R5P assets cnsist prinanrl oy fixed income arnd equy
1-994          1993       securties
Svie oe            eamed during                                     Du    the fiscal yr ended Ame i0. 1993. tIBe RD reviewed and modfied
It fl year ..... ......85                             S 155      cetin assmpions used in clcubltig its acmuated postrtirent ben-
Intest coastoen prised beit                                         efin obligation (AEO) to rlIed acta epoi  Thes moidicafins  -
agihon..tO                                              295      suled in an incase in the APBO. and a speiaal  etie  contrbution al
Actual return on plan assets              (342)           (0) 5 343 million was made to kocd this huse. N  ED's sme  f ths
Ne anrbzalion and debal                    (514           153       conributn son  315 artiton. The remainder was contrbuted by WC and
Ndpet p d  pension cost                  S 103           S 13    M1 LGA
Nd periodic postfiren  benefits cost tar IB   padicipants lor the lisl
The pattion of this costhd VW tes to Ihe IBRD and is incided in Adin-  yers en e Jui 30. 1994 aind JAe 3( 11993 cnstled i ft  tte flowing
istraiveexpenses for the fiocl year ended Jne 30. 1994 is 63n milion (564  coingnents
inillian-June 30. 1993). The bae   has bun inuded in the nagmet
eecharged to 0k                                                                                                   In milli'on
The kIlowing table sets fo  the Plns  idd  salts atJunie 30. 1994 and                                         1994          1993
June 30. 1993:                                                      Senie a s           earned duing
the Fscal year ....2...5..            S2            S 14
In millions         bnterest cost on amautated                 -
1994       1993           postretiwent benef abligalloar   .       39            26
Acktarial presen value at benefit oWgimN   mriaonadderd...                                                     (19)          (3
Accunuwlied benefit obligaton           .a
Vested .                              SO         S,047)                                                   34           S24
Nonvested                               W(4          (34)
Su- 91".bto..l....... ...(3.135)    (3A381)                 The portion of Tbis cost tit ltes to te IERD ad is icxluded in Adhhm-
Efct a poected opensaion leets           (1J743     (1G73)       Sirat veezf festor1fiscalyearendedJume30.1994 isS2l1 illron (S5
--            niilroniJ-ne 30.1993). The balance has been inuded in the magenl
Projected benetit obligation ........  (4,7)      (4.754)     lee cla      to IDA.
Plan asss at bair lue .                     5387    4.927
Plan assets in ex     praoieced beneit.
obligalion ..... ...                       5D9         173
.Herniang unrigolied net tiansition asset.   - 117)      (130)
Unreconized prior serice cost .91                         99
Unrecogized net gaii Iron past eeWence
difelrt from that assumed and kamn
chanob     in assumptions ....... ....     (43        (142)
Prepa7id  n cost ..............   .       S    0      S    0



Notes to Financi  Staternents           193
The Mblwing tablessets ad  lhe RSBP's lnded stbusal Jne30   1994 and  Of heS33 millin ppld as alJure 30.19943311 million Isathbubble
June 3  1993:                                                     to Me IBRD and Is induded In Miscellaneous asset an ne Bance   e.
The reruinder has beat atihaed to IFC and IAGA.
In Millions
19941millio       For Jute 310 1994, fte APBO vas deermn-ined using hina care cost ed
1994    19913      taes of 122 to 16.4 percenL dnasing gually lo 5.pe8tn In 2i10
Acomuiat postriremnnt bene   bligalon                              and Ihmefe The hfith we cost bend a  used lor June 31. 1993. was
Rfetrees                              $. SQ2&)   S1219)         11:5 to 162 percenl decreasing gradally to 5.0 percent in 2010 and fte-
Fully eigible active plan  rticlpans ....   (119)    1101)      ater.
Outer active plan patticiputs .... ...       (9       (         The 2*    ae cost trend a  assumpton has a signifiant mItt an the
(644)    (603)     amens qupard. To illustralt. icreasing Ite assumed health are CasI
Pbn assets at birf Iue . ....................  702    624       tend as by one pemtg pant would In e fte accsulaiad pos-
Plan assets in aess f accumulaed                                tetelment beril obligaion as t dJue 30 1994 by S132 milion and the
posretiranet beneit oblrab  .........      58       21       net periodic posrerit beft cost tor thescal f rs en ended byr SI5
huecognied tansbition o    i      o .....     -        29       million.
LhuecDgnized prior s=rve costs .             (16)      -                           discount a  ud i determining Ite acumo Wed
Unrecagobd not loss frm past
punce dhterert tram tat assumed                              pfstihmitW  bett obliglan Wa 825 prcl: (75 p         tJune 30.
ad from changes in assumpbons   .......    296     293        1993) g .Tdempee  g4ermraore mmonplauawiwasf825perent
Prid potretirenut bent cast    ........  S 33( S 343                l3une3 11993.



194
Report of Independent Accountants
Price Walerhouse   The Hague              New York
(International Firm)    Beijing          Tokyo
Hong Kong             Washinglon
London
Price Waterhouse
July 27, 1994
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 174 through 193 of this Report present fairly, in
all material respects, in terms of United States dollars. the financial position of the aternational Bank for
Reconstruction and DevelopmentatJune 30,1994and 1993, andthe results of its operations and itscashflows
for the years then ended m conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and
with International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management of
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards, including Intemational Standards on Auditing, which require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and signfficant estimates
mnade by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
Pnc U&Vfu



195
Financial Statements of the
International Development Association and
the Special Fund Administered by IDA
Statements of Develop.nent Resources 196
Statements of Changes In Accumulated Surplus 197
Statements of Cash Flows 197
Summary Statement of Development Credits 198
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscrptions and Contributions 201
Notes to Finandal Statements 205
Report of Independent Accountants 209



196   IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Statements of Development Resources
June 30, 1994 and June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
IDA                   Speual Fund
1911        1993         1994          1993
Development Resources
NET ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
Cash and inwstrments immedialey available lor disbwsement
Duefrom banks ............. ..............................                             S     65     S    54        3 2          S  I
Obligations ot governments and other otticial
enlities-Notes A and F ....... ................                                         1.368       1.457           5            24
Obligations of banks and other firuncial institutiuis-Notes A and F    .  .8.....         ,            1299         267           227
Net receivable (payable) on investMent secLrilies transactions-Notes A and F  ........      116          (22)      ___
2.425       2.788        274           252
Cash and inveslments not immediately availabie tor disbursement-Note 8
Duefrom banks ...........................................                                     2            4
Obligations af goernments and other official
entilies-Notes A and F ............................ ............                          136         133
Obligations of banks and Slier liriancial
inslitutions-Noles A and F .....................1.......... ......                       60           127
639         264         - _
Receivables on acount of subscriptions and contributions
Nonnegotable. noninterest-bearintgdemand
obligations    ..................................................                      21.548      19.952          33           49
Subscriptions and contributions-Note C
Ammints due ................................................                              342         26B
Amounts not yet due ......... ..................................                       10,843         119
Restricted asset ..........................................                               286         281
33.019      20.620         33            49
Receivable kram the Internatioral Bank for Reconstructiom
and Devetonomnt-Note D ... ................. ...................                           1.023        960
Other assets. net .................................................                             98          96         -               1
Total net assets available for developmer activites ....... .................          37204       24.728        307           302
DEVELOPMENT CREDITS OUTSTANDING
(see Summary Stament of Development Credits and Notes E and F)
Tow development credits ...............  ....8.....                                       37,880      80.090         21            39
Less undisbsed  ance ............. ......................... ..                          25,070       23.932         21            39
Total developmet credits distursed and outstanding ..............   .........          62.810      56.158         -             -
Total development resources .........1....................                          100,014    580.886        S307          5302
Funding of Development Resources
Member subscriptions and contribtmons (see Staumenl ot
Voting Powr, and Subsciptions and Conributions.
Note C)
Unrestricted  ................  I .................................                    S 89.258    S72.496         SZ26          S218
Restricted ...................................................                              286         251
89.544      72.777        206           218
Payments on account of pending mernbeship-Note C .......           ..................            9          10
Transter trom the IBRD-Note 0 ......             ..........................                  4.176       3.661
Cumulative translalion adjustment on devopment credits .......................               4.807       3266
Accurnulated surplus (see Statements of Changes in
Accumulated Surplus) ............................................                           .264       1.110        101            84
Securiies sold under agreenents to repurchase and payable for cash collateral
received-Note A ......... .....................................                           214          62
Total funding of development resources ......                  ...............    S100.014      S80.886       3307          5302
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral par of these Statements.



Statemenis of Cash Floms         197
Statements of Changes in Accumulated
Surplus
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994 and June 30,1993
Expressed in milions of U.S. dollars
IDA                            Special Fund
1994             1993              1994             1993
ACCUMULATED SURPWS
Income trom development credits-Notes E and G  . .           S 417            S 398
Income Irom investments-Nole   .     ..............            168               373             S 18             S 30
Management tee charged by the International Bank tor
Reconsiruction and Development-Note G     .......           (545)             (467)
Amortization of discount on subscription advances  ....          (9)              (7)
Changes from operations .......................31                                297               18               30
Effect af exchange rate changes an accumulated surplus          123             (446)              (1)             (50)
Net changes ...............                                  154              (149)              17             (20)
Balance at beginning of the tiscal year ............          1,110             1,259              84              104
Balance at end oa the iscal year .................            1264            S1.110             S101    5    B     84
Statements of Cash Flows
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994 and June 30. 1993
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
IDA                            Specal Fund
1994             1993             1994             1993
Cash flows from development activities
Development credit disbursements .......  ......        515.520]         S(4.913)           6(11)            S(33)
Development credit principal repayments    ........         420              366
Net cash used in development activities (......      5.100}          (4.547)            (11)             (33)
Cash flows from member subscriptions and
contributions .......                                     3.960            4.112              16                37
Cash flows from other contributions ....... .......           452              303
Cash flows from operating activities
Changes from operations ..........   ..........              31              297              18               30
Adjustments to reconcile changer. fmm operations to
net cash provided by operating acbtvifies
Amortization of discount on subscripion advances           9                 7
Net changes in other assets and liabilities   ......     163              108              -                 -
Net cash provided by operating activities   .....      203              412              18                30
Eftect of exchange rate changes on cash and
investnents immediately available for disbursement .        122             (462)             (1)              (501
Net (decrease) increase in cash and investments
immediately available far disbursement ...... ....         (363)            (182)             22               (16)
Cash and investments immediately avaiable tor
disbursement at beginning of the fiscal year  8......     2788               970             252              268
Cash and investments immediately available for
disbursement at end of the fiscal year .......$....         2.425        S 2J788            5274             $252
The Notes ti Financial Slatenents are an integral part of these Statemens.



198     IDA and Speclol Fund Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits
June 30, 1994
Expressed in millons of U.S. dollars
IDA                             Special Fund                       Total
Percentage of
Total    Undisbursed  Devdopment    Toa      Undisbursed  Deopnet  Developmmnl  dlopmenv
development development    credits    dewelopment  develpmnent    credits  credits      credits
Boram r or guarantor       credts      aedits'    ousutnding   credits      credits    outandig   outandig    outsadio
Afghanistan .........        S    75   S  -       S    75       5-             -           -       $    75        0.12
Albania .                     138         87           51         -           -           -             51    0.08
Angola .260   231                                      29    -                -           -             29   0.05
Armenia .29   26    3   -    -    -                                                                      3
Bangladesh.                 6.862       1,662       5,200          6          -             6        5.206        8.29
Benin .584    157                                     427    12               -            12          439    0.70
Bhutan                         29           9          20         -           -           -             20        0.03
Bolivia                     1,002        390          612         -           -           -            612        0.97
Botana                         12         -            12         -           -           -             12    0.02
Burkina Faso                  773        299          474         -           -           -            474        0.75
Burundi .748    202    546    -                                               -           -            546    0.87
Cambodia .65    35                                     30    -                -           -             30   0.05
Cameroon .408                             76    332    -                      -           -            332    0.53
Cape Verde                     48         23           25         -           -           -             25        0.04
Central Arican Republic       455         90          365         -           -           -            365        0.58
Chad .447   135    312    -                                                   -           -            312   0.50
Chile .12    -                                         12   -                 -           -             12  0.02
China .8.691                            2.983       5.708         82          -            82        5.790        9.22
Colombia .12    -                                      12    -                -           -             12   0.02
Comors .81    33                                       48    -                -                         48   0.08
Congo .173    -                                       173    -                -            -           173   020
CostaRica .3    -                                       3   -                 -           -              3
Cole d'ivoire                 549        132          417         -           -           -            417        0.66
Djibuui .51    9    42   -                                                    -           -             42   OD7
Dominica      .                12                      12         -           -           -             12         D02
Dominican Republic  ...        18        -             18         -           -           -             18        0.03
Ecuador.                       28    -                 26    -                -           -             28   0.04
Egypt Arab Republic of      1,323        385          938         -           -           -            938        1.49
ElSalvador                     21         -            21         -           -           -             21        0.03
Equatorial Guinea              59         11           48         -           -           -             48        O.0B
Ethiopia.                   1,950        653    1,297             -           -           -          1,297        2.07
Gambia. The                   186         43          143         -           -           -            143        0.23
Ghana          n         . 904           938         1,966        49          -            49       2015         321
brenada .7   -                                          7   -    -                        -              7   0.01
Guiea .960   220    740    -                                                  -           -            740   1.1B
Guinea-Bissau                225          38          187          6          -            6           193        0.31
Guyan .254    79    175    -                                                  -           -            175   0.28
Haiti .474    146                                     328         14          -            14          342    0.55
Honduras ...........         446         178          268         -           -           -            268        0.43
India ............         20.979       4,857      16,122         91          21           70       16,192       25.78
Indonesia ...........        787          -           787         -           -           -            787        1.25
Jordan ............            72         -            72         -                       -             72        0.12
Kenya ............          2,211        514        1,697         52          -           52         1.749        2.78
Koma. Republic of ....         87         -            87         -           -           -             87        0.14
Kyrgyz Republic ......        143         102          41         -           -           -             41        0.06
Lao People's Democratic
Republic .........         413         173         240         -           -            -           240         0.38
Lesoto ............          223          82          141                     - -         -            141        0.22
Liberia .............         110          4          106         -           -           -            106        0.17



Summary Stotement of Development Credits                  199
IDA                               Special Fund                        Tom
Percentage ol
ToWl     Undisbursed  Development     TOta      Undisbursed  Developmen   DevOelopmen   development
development  deelopment    credits    developmert  developime     cudb         credits       cedits
Borrower or guarantor       credits      credits1    musnding      credits     credits    ouanding   outsnding    outstanding
Macedonia, former
Yugoslav Republic ol.   S    42      S   -        S    42       S -          S -          S-          $    42        0.07
Madagascar.                  1.308          358          950         40           -            40           990         1.58
Malawi .1,412                               304        1,108         19           -            19         1,127         1.79
Maldives ...........            37            7           30         -            -            -             30         0.05
Mali .994    267    727    14                                                     -            14           741  I.t8
Mauritania .377                              84    293    -                       -            -            293    OAT
Mauiius            . .17    -                             17    -                 -           -              17   0.03
Mongolia .89    45    44    -                                                     -            -             44   0.07
Moroco.                         35    -                   35    -                 -           -              35   0.06
Mozambique.                   1,531         939          592         -            -            -            592         094
Myanmar .18                                  33    785               -            -            -            785   1.25
Nepal .1,453    561    892    -                                                   -           -             892    1.42
Nicargua           . .351    142    209                              -            -            -            209    0.33
Niger.                         686    138    548    -                             -           -             548   0.87
Nigeria .953    797    156                                           -            -           -             156    0.25
Pakistan.                    4492    1,599    2.893                  -            -            -          2.893         4.61
Papua New Guinea               110           -           110         -            -           -             110         0.17
Paraguay                        38           -            38         -            -           -              38         0.06
Philippines .280                            109          171         -            -           -             171    0.27
anda              . .716    242    474    -                                       -            -            474   0.75
SL Kitts and N    is .   . -                 - 2           2         -            -           -               2
St Lucia                          6                        6                      -            -              6         0.01
SL Vincent and the
Grenadines                     2          -              2          6          -              6             8        0.01
Sio Tome and Principe .         70           25           45         -                        -              45         0.07
Senegal .1,198                              232          966         26           -            26           992         158
Sierra Leone                   328          155          173         -            -           -            .173         0.2B
Solomon Islands                 37           16           21         -            -           -              21         0.03
Somala            . .555    131    424    -                                       -           -             424   0.68
Sri Lanka ..........          1.838         538        1,300         -            -           -            1.300        207
Sudan.                        1,237           1        1,236          14          -            14          1,250        1.99
Swiland                           6          -             6         -            -            -              6         0.01
Syrian Arab Republic ..         44           -            44         -            -            _             44         0.07
Tanzania.                    2,87           950    1,937             -            -            -          1,937         3.08
Thailand .104                                -           104    -                 -            -            104   0.17
TDo .607    141    466    26                                                      -            26           492    0.78
Tonga .6    2    4   -    -    -                                                                               4   0.01
Tunisia .53    -                                          53    -                 -            -             53   0.08
Turkey .139    -                                         139    -                 -            -            139   0.22
Uganda ... ......            2,361          888        1,473         -            -           -           1,473         235
Vanuatu .17                                   5           12    -                 -            -              12   0.02
Viet Nam .391    335                                      56    -                 -            -             56   0.09
WeslernSamoa                    48            6           42         -            -            -             42         0.07
Yemen, Republic of            1,102         349          753          14          -            14           767         1.22
Zaire.                        1,314          22   1.292    -                      -           -           1;292    206
Zambia.                       1,345         400          945           7          -             7           952         1.52
Zimbabwe .471    184    287                                          -            -            -            287    0.46
Subtotal members          87,306       25,067      62,299        478            21         457         62,756       99.92
(confinued)



200      IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits  (conhlfece
June 30, 1994
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars
IDA                               Special Fund                       Total
Percentage at
Total    Undishursed  Dvelopment     Total     Undisbursed  Development  Development  developmenl
development  development    credils    dvelopment  dweopmnent    credits      credits      credils
Borrower w guarantor        cedits      credits'    nuislanding   credits     credits    oubstandinp   outstanding    outstanding
West African
DevelopmentBank2..   S    64         S    40     $    24        S-          5-           5-         $    24         0.04
Caiibbean Development
Bank3 .45    23    22    -                                                    -            -             22   0.03
Othe' ..                                    -             8   _                  - .8a  0.01
Total-June 30. 1994;       587.423     525.070      562353        5478         S 21        S457        562.810       10010
Total-June 30. 19935       S79.659     S23.932      $55.727       S470         S 39        S431        S56.158
indimates amounts less than SO  million or 0.005 percent
NM,
1. 01 the undisbursed balance at June 30. 1994. IDA tas eteret into irrevocable commitments to disburse 5229 million (S277 million-June 30. 193).
2 These devetoment cradits are tor the beneit oa Benin, Burkina Faso. Cte crlvonre Mali, Niger. Senegal. and Toga.
3a These development credits are for the benefit at Grenada and territories ot the United Kingdom (Associated States and Dependencies) in the Caribbean region.
4. Represenis development credits nade at a time when the aulhorities on Taiwan represented China irn IDA (prior to May 15. 190S).
5. In the Statement at Development Resources at June 30. 1994. toal development credits oa SB7.8B0 million M0.090 million-June 30. 1993) and toal
development credits disnursed and outstanding of S62.810 millimn (586.158 million-June 30. 1993) include development credts outstanding at 5457 million
(S431 million-June 30. 1993) which were origiated under Ihe Special Fund. since such amouns ae repayable to IDA (see Noles to hFnaal Statenents-
Note E).
Maturity Structure of Development Credits Disbursed and Outstanding
Perod                                                                   (DA                   Special Fund              Total
July 1. 1994 hrough June 30. 1995       ...............               5   554                     S  5                S   559
July 1, 1995 through June 30. 1996      ...............                   587                        5                    592
July 1. 1996 through June 30. 1997      ...............                   653                        5                    658
July 1. 1997 through June 30. 1998 ...............                         740                       5                    745
July 1, 1998 through June 30. 1Q99 ...............                         902                       5                    907
July 1, 1999 through June 30. 2004 ...............                       7.407                      27                   7.434
July 1. 2004 through June 30. 2009      0...............                1.098                       69                  10.167
July 1. 2009 through June 30. 2014      l...............                11.01                       69                  11.660
July 1. 2014 through June 30. 2019      ...............                 10.663                      69                  10.732
July 1. 2019 through June 30. 2024 .......     ........                  9.050                      69                   9.119
July 1, 2024 through June 30. 2529      ...............                  6.583                      69                   6.652
July 1, 2029 through June 30. 2034  ...............                      3.069                      60                   3.129
July 1, 2034 through June 30. 2039 ...............                         456                      -                     456
Total . .....         .......................                       S62.353                    S457                 S62.810
NoTE
1. In the Stalement at Development Resources at June 30. 1994. total development credits disbursed and outstanding oa  6Z8D10 million (556.158 million-
June 30. 1993) include development credits oustanding of S457 mtlion (S431 million-June 30. 1993) which were originated under the Special Fund. since
sch amounts are repayable to IDA (see Notes to Financial Slatements-Note E).
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part ot hese Statements.



Voting Power, and Subscriptilons and Coniribullons    201
S"tatement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions
June 30, 1994
Expressed in millions of U.S. dollars except vote data
IDA
Number            Percenitage         Subscriptiorns              special
cl                  oi                   and                    Fund
Miember                                                                               VOteS                tota             centribuUflons          coniiibultims
Part I Members
Auistralia  .............                                ......                    131.094              1.36               S 1.5251                  8 -
Austria.---           .       .......-------                                        64.389              0567                    750.4
Belgium  .-..................                                                      103.228              1.07                 1.1792                     so
Cafndda .......--------- ....                                                      295.694              3.05                 3.818.5                   159
Dennmarki ....................                                                      92.868              0.96                 1.140.3                    34
Fminand .. ...........   ......65.952                                                                   0.68                    578.1 
France...............                                           ....               3901814              4 04                 614518                    149
Germarny.-5--------------------.521                                                                     6.81                10.426.4 
Iceland .........------   .....                                                     24.316               0.25                    16-4
Irelartd..........                              --------                            29.443               030                   103.1                   -
Italy. ~.~........   .........                                                     259.450               2.68                 2,941.?                   go
Japan..- ------------------                                                        988.143             10.22                20.756.2 
Kuwvait ...   ................                                                      69.824              0.72                   649.2 
L-urembourg   -........ ..........                                                  25.51T              0-26                     47.6 
Netherdands ...................                                                   205959                213                   3.355.0 
New Zealand.................29.602                                                                      0.31                   100.1 
Norway .          -            ------------                              -          9.1414              0.97                 1,075-4                    40
P'ortugal   .........                        .......                                18.617              0.19                      4-1 
Ruessia ...         ..............                                 ...              28.202              0.29                    143.3 
South Atica ...................                                                     29.813              0.31                     83-1 
Spain.............---------                                                         42.462               0.44                   302.3 
Sweden ...........                             ......              ...             192.95               2z00                 2.221.1                    74
S-witzerland  ...............I....                                                  80016               0.83                   984.? 
United Arab Emirasi.n             ..............                                     1.367              0.01                      5.6
Unfited Kingdom .................                                                 495.581               5-13                  6.524.2--
United States ....................                                               1.490.101             15A1                 21.831.5 
Subtotal Part I Members2..............                                     5.907.692             61.10                863718.9                   596
Plar II Members
Aighanistan...................                                                      13.557              ([14                      1.0 
Alban'ia .................                                                          19.711               0.20                     03
Algeria ................ ....                                                       24.494              ([25                      5.1 
Angola ................. ...                                                        45.662              0.47                      7.9 
Argerntina ....................                                                     96.503               1.00                    58.0 
Armenia ....................                                                           584               0.01                     0.5 
Bangladesh ...................                                                      57640               0HU                       7.3 
Belize......................                                                         1 788              0.02                      0.2                  -
Benin ............I...I...I....                                                      5.2977             0.05                      0.6 
ihta......................1223                                                                          0.13                      0.1 
Bolivia .....  ..............                                                       29.552              0.31                      1.4 
Boisuaria....................                                                       23.686              0.24                      0.2 
Brazil ~.....................                                                     158.7736              1.64                     92i3 
BuArina Faso...................                                                     19.065              0.20                      0.7 
Burunidi.....................                                                       22.398              0.23                      tO0 
Carnbodia...................                                                         2.826              ('08                     113 
CameroDn ...................                                                        18.56               0.19                      1.3 
Cape Verde ...................                                                       4.948              0.05                      0.1 
Centrl Akican Republic ...............                                              10.920              0.11                      ([6 
Chad -..~.................                                                          10.990              0-11                      0.6 
Chile ...-----------------                                                          31.782              0.33                      4.5 
China .....................                                                       193.370               2.00                    39.6 
Colombia....................                                                        34.350              0.36                    22.5 
Comoaos ....................                                                        13.141              0.14                      0.1 
Congo.----................                                                           6,685              ([07                      0.6 
Costa Rica.----             -----               ........                            12.32               ([13                      ([3 
C6le dlvoir ...................                                                     17886                0.18                     1.3 
(contimNued



202       IDA andi Special Fund Financial Statermens
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions   cnbed
Ju-ne 30, 1994
Euxpressed In millions of U.S. dollars except vote data
IDA
Nunmber       Perceitge        Sutscaiplions        Spcal
of             at               and                Fund
Pcnber'                                                             voles,          tml            cwrtribuioins      conlributionis
Part II Members (continued)
Croatia .......... ..........                                     28.087          0.29               5.5             S-
Cypru . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .                      27,628          0.29                1.1-
Czech Republic...... ..... .......                                3B.648          0.40               23.8               
Ojibeuli..........532    0.01                                                                         0.2  
Donminica .............                       .....               14.985          0.15                0.1-
Dominican Republic.................                               25.333          0.25                0.6       
Ecuador ................ ....                                     23279           0.24                0.8       
Egypt Arab Republic ali.... ...........                           45.364          0.47                6.7-
El Salvador .5..................                                    244           0.05                0.4 
Equataoia Guinea .....            ...            ....              6.167          0.60.4 
Elhilopia -.............. .. ....                                 21.353          0.22                0.7-
Fiji .......................                                        755           ao07                0.7 
Gabon .....................                                         093           0.02                0.5 
Ganrtie The  .....................i.5                                             am1                 0.a 
Georgia. ...................                                      22.523          0.23                0.9 
Glanm. ............  ......                                       22.131          0.23                3.0-
Grme....................                                          36.429          0.38               1812-
Grenada................ ....                                      11B930          0.20                0.1                -
Grsenala....................                                      20.750          0.21                as5                -
Gufinea.....................                                      27.284          0128                1.3                -
Guinea-issau . -.~...............                                  4.982          0.05                0.2                -
GUYn. ....................                                        18.180          0.19                1.0                -
Haiti...........    ..........                                    17,143          0.18                1.0                -
Honduras...... ...............                                    21.3            0.22               0D4                -
Hunga~ry.-------               ...........                        73.914          0.75               37.5                -
Irdia......................                                      300.767          3.11               55.1               -
Indoroesia.............. ......                                   94.802          0.98               14.8                -
Iran. Islamic Republic at................                         15.455          0.16                5-7                -
Iraq ......................                                        9.407          0.10                1.0-
israel ......    ..... .........                                  20.567          0.21                2.5-
Jordarn............ .........                                     24.627          0.25                0.4               -
Kazakhtrs .................n...                                     8065          0.01                1.8               -
Kenya.......... ............                                      25.750          0.27                22                 -
Kilibai . ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ... ... ..   4.777          1105                01                 -
Korea. Republic oft........ .........                             39.153          0140              113.5                -
Kyrgy Republic..................580                                               (101                0.5                -
Lao Peopie's Democatc Republic .. ..........                      11.723          0.12                0.5                -
Latvia .5...................                                         14           0.01                0.7                -
Lebanon ......................62                                                  0.09                0.6                -
Lesato.....................                                       23.744          0.25                0.2                -
Liberia ........    ............                                  22,771          0.24                1.1                -
Libya .................... .7571                                                  1108                1.3                -.
Macedonia loaner Yugcslav Rlepublic of .. ........                15.759          0.16                1.0                -
Madagascar ...................                                    10.797          0.11                1.2                -
Malawi.....................                                       27.352          0.28                1.0               -
Malaysia....................                                      39.045         0O40                 3.6               -
Maldives. .~..................                                    22,892          0.24
Mali.......... ..........                                         22A407          023                 1.2-
Marshall Islands. The.... ..         .........                     4.90           0.05
Mauritania ...................ia.sas                                             0u.n                 as 
Mairhiusa.....................                                    28.318          0.29                1-2-
Mexico .....................                                       8.128          0.70              124.8-
Micranesa .11..................                                   IB424           0.19



Voting Power, and Subs-criptions and Contributions    203
IDA
Number            Percentage          Subscriptions               Special
of                 0i                   and                     Fund
Member1                                                                               votes               total            contributios            CwIntributiois
MoldDva  5...........                                ....                              12              0.01.               S    0.7                  5 -
Mongolia ...         ..     . .......                     ----5.039                                    0.05                      0.3 
Meoroco.    .............. ....                                                   45.650              0.47                      48                    -
Mozambique .................--                                                      5.721              '1.06                     1.7 
Myanmnar..... ..                 .......                 ........                  35.1148             0.37                      2.9 
Nepal .............    ......25.765                                                                    0.27                      0.7 
Nicaraguia  .... .......                        .....             .                24.627              0.25                      0.4 
Niger ..........                           .      ........                         16.541              0.17                      0)7 
Nigeria        ..---------------     ----                                           8.257              009                       4.2 
Oman ..........                            ..........                              24.631              025                       CA 
Pakistan ............I...                                      ...                89.116               0.92                    13.7 
Panamfa............                             ....                                5 6570.05 
Papua New Guinea....             .....            ........                         13.050              0.13                      1.1 
Paraguay  ..........                          ......              ...              11.419              0.12                      0.4 
Peru 1................----990                                                                          (-10                      2.1 
Philippines ...................                                                    15.583              0.17                      65.5
Poland...................                                                        224.289               2.32                    52-1 
Rwanda .................      .                                                    17.371              0.19                     1III
SL. Kitts and Nevis ..........                          ......                      4.978              0.05                      0.2 
St. Luca                                                                           22....................416  0.23               0.2 
SI. Vinocent and fth  Grendines   .   ........---514                                                   0.01                      0.1 
Sao Torni and Principe............---                                               4)714              0.06                      0.1 
Saudi ArWabia        ..................                                          330.314                3A42                2,033.2 
Senegal ................. ..                                                       27.102              0.28                      2.2 
Sierra Leone...................                                                    12.657              0.13                      1.0 
Slovak Republic ................20893                                                                  0.22                      7.0 
Siovenia ...........                               .......                         18956                0.20                     3.0 
SoloTmn Islanrds..................                                                    518              0.01                      0.1 
Somalia ....................                                                       10506               0.11                      1.0 
Sri Lanka ....................                                                     42.359              0.44                      4.0 
Sudan  ..................                                             ..           22.886              024                       1.3 
Suaziland ...................                                    .l11.073                              0.11                      0.4
SyTiant Arab Republic ..........  ......                                            7.651               0.08                     1-2 
Talikistan. ....................                                                   20.568              0.21                      0.5 
Tanzania....................                                                       33.598               0.35                     2.2 
Thailand ....................                                                      42.359              0.44                      4.3 
Togo   .............                                 ......                        21.847              0.23                      1.0 
Toniga .....................                                                       11.380              0.12                     '1.1
Trinidad and Tobago .... .........770                                                                  0fli                      1.6 
Tunisia.....................                                                        2,793              0.03                      1.9 
Turke-y .......... .............................64.045                                                 0.66                     75.9 
Uganda ................. ...                                                       21.093              0.22                      Z2.2
UJzbekistan .....   ..............                                                    746               0.01                     1.5 
Vanuatu ....................                                                       13.670              0.14                      (12
Vilet Nam .8..............8.....9                                                                      0.09                      1.9 
Western Samoa ..................                                                   13.061              0.14                      0.1
Yeern.....................                                                         24,658              0.26                      2.1
Zaire......................                                                        12.164              0.13                      3.8
Zantbia ................ ..26 868                                                                      028                       3A
Zimbabwe....................                                                        7.368              0.08                      5.0
(continuied)



204       IDA and Speclal Fund Financial Slatements
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions (continued)
June 30, 1994
Expressed in millions ol U.S. dollars except vote data
IDA
Numner         Percentage      Subscriptions         Special
al             at                and               Fund
Mermber'                                                             votes           latal          conlribulions      contributions
Sublolal Pad 11 Members                ................          3,7,349           30.91           S 2.948t5            -
Total-June 30. 1994-'                                            9.668.041        1000            S89.66714             $596
Total-June 30. 19933 .......... .. ............                  8.862.437        10000            $72,911.3            $596
Indicaics arnounls less than $0.05 million.
1. See Notes to Financial Slatementsote C tor an explanation at the two categories al memnbership
2. May differ trom the sum oa individual figures shown because al rounding.
3. In the Statenents at Development Resources at June 30. 1994, member subscriptions and contributions al 5e9.544 million ($72.777 million-June 30.
1993) does not include $512 million (S512 million-June 30.1993) dl Switzedand's subscription and contribulions and includes Special Fund contributions
oa S389 million (S375 million-une 30. 1993).
S512 million ($512 million-June 30. 1993) ot Switzernd's-subscription and contribulions have not been included since this represents the diffenmc
between the toial cofinancing grants ot S580 million provided by Switzeland directly to IDA borrowers as corlinanring grants between Ihe fourth and the
ninth replenishmerts of IDA resources, and the July 1992 contribution by Switzernd ot Sfi million representing the present vlaue t tuture retlows on
thes graTfs it t   had been made through IDA on IDOs repryment terms.
Special Fund contributions oa S339 million (S378 miilion-June 30. 19931 have been includ, since the developrnent credits that were funded using these
resources are repayable to IDA (see Notas to Firancial Staements-Nole C!.
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.



Notes to Finonclal Statemenht              205
Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
IDA's linancial stalements are prpared in conlormity with the accounting  lhe Executie Direclors, IDA had valued these subscriplions and contrlbu-
principles generally accepted In the United Slates and with International    tlons on the basis al the SDR at Ithe current markut value oa the SDR.
Accounting Standards.                                                The subscrIPtons and cntrlbutlons provided under the laurt rplenish-
ment and therealter are expressed In menberse currencies or SDRs and are
Or ganization and Operations                                         payable In members currencies. Beginning July 1. 1985. subscriptlions and
contribullons made available tar disbursement In -ash to IDA are translated
IDA: IDA was established on September 24. 1960 to promote economic   at madfte rales o1 exchange on the dates they were mnade avalable. Prior to
development increase productivity. and raise the slandard ol Itving at its  that date, subscriplions and conlributions which had been disbursed or
developing country mernbers.                                         convented Into other currencies were translated at market rates of exchange
Special Fund: On Oclober 26. 1952. IDA establIshed the Special Fund  on dates ol disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not
constituted by hinds to be contributed by nembers of IDA and adminmistered  yet available for disburm ts are translated at marhke rates of exhange at
by IDA. to supplement the regular re ources available for lending by IDA.  the end 1l the accomnling perIod.
The arrangements governing the Special Fund may be amended or termi-  Special Fund: Beginning April 1. 1989, subscriptions and contributions
nated by IDA's Executive Directors subject to the dareement oa a qualitied  reeived but not yet disbursed. as well as subscriptions and contributons
majority ot the contributors to the Special Fund. The resources of the Special  disbursed or converted into other currencies, are transled at markelt rates
Fund are kept separale from Ithe resources of IDA.                   ol exchange on the dates they were made available tor disbursement in cash
to the Special Fund. Pdor lo that date, subscripions and conlributions which
Translation of Currencies                                            had been disbursed or convered inlo other currencies were translated at
marts rates of exchange on dates ol disbursement or conversion. Sub-
IDA7s tinanciat statements ae exressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely tar  scriptions and conmributions receivable are translated at market rates ot
te purpose ot summarizing IDA's financial position and the results of its  exchange at the end ot the accounting pedod.
operations for the covenience &f its members and oter interested parties.
IDA: IDA is an international organization which conduts its operations in  Development Credits
the currencies ot all of its myenbers. Assets ano liabilities are Iranslated at
market rates of exchange at the end ol the accounting period. Subscriptions  AJI development credits are miade to number govemments cr to the goa-
and contributions are Iranslated in the manner descrbed below. hnconie and  emment al a territory oa a member (except tor developmren credits which
expenses aretinslateat te maret rates ot exchane atte dates on whiich  have been made to regional development banks for the beneritmn dm bers
lwyare recognized r at anaverage ol he market ratesot exchange inetect  or tenitories at numbers oa IDA). It is the policy at IDA to place in non-
during each month. Translation adjusmrents relating to the tevaluation of  accrual status all development credits made to a member govnmenl or to
development credits denorminated in Special Drawing Rights (SIRs) are  thegovemmento a ternrory  a memberit principat or chrges with respect
charged or credited to Cumulative translation adjustnenl on developmenl  to anysuch devopment crefit are overdue by more than siK months, unless
credits. Other translation adjustments are charged or credited to the Accu-  IDA mangement determies thalt the overdue amount vwill be colleMted in the
mutated surplus.                                                     iuediate futre. In additi   I loanrs by the lORD to a nmember gowemment
Special Fund: Assets at the Special Fund are translated at rmaret rates  are placed in nonaccrual status all devopmenT credits to that member
of exchange at the end at tile period. Contributions are translated in the  government will also be placed in nonaccual status by IDA. On the date a
manner described below. Income is translated at market rates at exchange  member s development credits are placed in nonacenal status. charges that
on dates of remCgnition of inrme. Translation adjustments are charged or  had been accrued on devlopment credits outstanding to the member which
credited to the Accumulated surplus.                                 rmained unpaid are deducted Irm the income at the current period.
Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only
to the extent tha payments have alally been received by IDA On the date
Valuation of Subscriptions and Contributions                        a member pays in lull all overdue amounts the members credits emerge
trom nonacorual status. its eligibility tar new credits is restored. and all
IDA: The subscriptions and contributions provided through t  third m-  overduecharges (including thoseom prior years)arerecognizedasincame
plenishmnent are expressed in tes of "U.S dollars of the weight and  in the current periDd.
fineness in eilect on January 1. 1960" (1960 dollars). Following the abo-
lition al gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the  In projecting the rtepayments at principal which would be available tar new
repea of ttie provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S.  commitments, IDA takes into consideration any collectibility risks that may
dollar in terms of gold. the pm-existing basis tar translating 1960 dollars  exist in principal remeable tom development credits. No provision has
into current doltars or any oiher currency disappeared The Eecutive Di-  been established tar credit losses. Should losses occur arising from pin-
rectors ot IDA have decided, until such firne as the relevant provisions of the  cipal receivable trom develooment credits. they would be charged against
Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words "U.S. dollars at the  IDAKs Development Resources. To dat  IDA has not suffered any losses on
weight and fineness in effet on January,, 1960" in Artide Il Section 2(b)  receivables trom development credits, nor are any losses anticipated.
of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR intro-
duced by the tntemational Monetary Fund as the SOB was valued in terms  IDA: The repayment obligations t IDA's development credits tunded tram
df U.S. dollars immediately beore the introduction of the basket fthod of  resources through the ith t   plenishmenl are expressed in dte development
vatuing the SDR on July 1, 1974. such value being equal to $1.20635 for  credit agments in lerms of 1960 dollars. In June 1957, the  eculive
one SDR (the 1974 SDR. and have also decided to apply the sire sUndard  Directors decided iD vatue those development credits at th rate ot $1.2063
ot value to amnounts expressed in 1961 dollars in the relevan resolutions of  per 1960 dollar on a pemanent basis. Developmen credits funded 1rmm
the Board at Govremors.                                             reSourCDS ptovided under the sixthl replenishmpent adl thereafter are de-
nominated in SDRs the priciat amounts disbursed under such develop-
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenish-  ment credits are to be repaid in currency amounis currently equivalent lto he
ment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to Ihe decision of  SORs disbursed.
(Cficolued)



206       IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continueco
Specil Fund: Spedal Fund development aodits are denominaled In       $317 nilllion (5125 million-June 30, 1993). Al June 30, 1994, lDA's
SORs. The principal amfounis disbursed under such development credils are  exposure lo credll loss on covered forwards due to polenlial nonpirlormance
to be repaid In currency amounts currently equivlent to the SDAs disbursed  by counlerpanies was $6 million (nil-June 30. 1993).
Special Fund development credits are made on Ihe same terms as regular  Oplions are conlracts thal allow Ihe holder ot the oplion lo purchase or sell
IDA developnenl credils except thal the proceeds ol Special Fund devel-  a financial instrument at a specilled price and wllhin a specilled period ol
opment credits may be used only lo ltnance expendilures for gDads or  lime Irom Ihe seller or to Ihe purchaser al Ihe oplion. As a seller ol options,
services Iron (a) Part 11 members ol IDA. lb) Pan I members contributing  IDA receives a premium at Ihe oulsel and then bhars Ihe risk ol an unla-
lo the Special Fund. and (c) Part I members contributing to Ihe regular  vorable change in the price of the tinancial instrumeni underlying he oplion.
resources ol IDA Ihrough IDA's FY54 Account who have notitied IDA Ihal -   The total conlract value ol oplions sold at June 30. 1994 was $216 million
such contributions are to be trealed hi the same manner as contribulions lo  ($29 million-June 30, 1993).
the Special Furnd for purposes DI arry klure adjusUmrnl of the voting rights
ot the members d ItAr                                                Short sales ame sales o1 securities not held in IDKs porttolio at the lime oa
Ihe sale. IDA must puchase the secuity al a later date and beers Ite risk
that the markel value ol the security will move adversely between the lime
Investme0nts                                                         ol Ihe sale and Ihe time Ihe securily must be delivered. The lotal contract
IDA  attis Hs inlmel seumites l owet alue Bot maizedand amount o1 short sales at June 30. 1994 was $13 million ($7 million-june
nrealized cains anvd loses ase includerisd mak  valune. th ra lized and se301993). This amount is included in Net payable on invesment seuty
unreaized  ains nd lsses re inludedIn icome ran ivestmntsanisactions.
Reclassifications                                                    Note B-Cash and Investments Not Immediately
Certin reclassifications of the prior years inlormalion have been made lo  Available for Disbursement
conlorm to the current years presentabon.
Under the Articles ol Agreement aid the arrangements goveming replen
Note A-investments                                                   ishments. IDA must take appropriate steps to ensure that. over a reasonable
period oa fime. Ihe resources provided by donors lor lending by IDA are ued
A sumrmaty ol the currercy composition of the Investments at June 30. 1994  on an approximately pro rata basis. Donors sometimes cornribute resources
and June 30, 1993 is as tollows                                       substanially ahead of their pro rala share. Unless otherwise agreed. IDA
does not disburse Ihese funds ahead oa donors pro rala shares Cash and
In millions ol U5.-dollars equivalent                                investments not immediately available tar disbursement represents the dit-
ference between the amount contributed and the amount available lor dis-
IDA              Special Fund        bursements on a pro rate basis.
Currency                  1994       1993       1994      1993        Note C-Member Subscriptions and
Belgian francs ......    S  61      S  60       S 14      $ 12       Contributions
Canadian dottars .......... -           43        73        69       eRestricted Assets and Subscriptions: For the purposes at its fi-
Danish krener ...... .                  -         13         9       narcial resources. the membership of IDA is divided into two categories- (1)
Deutsche mark  .....      1.342      1.154        -         -        Part I members, which make payments ot subscriptions and contributions
French francs .20....      ao          197        37        45       provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may Ie Ieely used or
Japanese yen  ....         327         305        --        -         exchanged by IDA in its operations ano ,2) most Part It members, which
Itian lire .                            8......  80  5  91  80       make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in treely con-
Netherlands guilders . .    56         145        -         -        vertible currencires and the remaining ninety percent o1 their initial sub-
Pounds sterling            151         155        -         -        scriptians. and ali additional subscriplions and contributions in their own
currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certin Part II members pr-
Swedish kmnor .   .         67          75        44        36       vide a portion oh their subscriptons and contributions in the same manner
United Sbles dollars  .    683         744        -         -        as mentioned in (1) above. IONs Articles at Agreement and subsequent
Total ..........    52.997        52.994     S272      $51         repterishrneit agremnts provide that the currenry at any Part tl rnmber
= -   -   -          paidin byilmaynottbeusedby IDAlorprojesfitiancedbyIDAanlocated
outside the terrilories ot the member except by agoreement between INe
As part of its overall portfolio managanent strategy. IDA is party to financial  memsber ane IDAo
instruments with oft-balance sheel risk including ulures, covered forwardr
contracts. options. and short sales. Fuluresare contracts or dclayed delivery  Maintenance of Vatue: Article IV, Section 2(a) and (nl ot IDA's Artic es
of securities or money marks instruments in which the seller agrees to make  o Agreement pmvides for maintenance-af-value payments on account oh the
delivffy al a specified itue date of a specilied insirument al a specilied  local currenry portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of
price or yield. Al June 30. 1994 the total contact value of lutures contracts  the nmber's currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of
was $1,161 million (5211 million-June 30. 1993) and IDA's expsure to  IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant erdent vithin the members'
credit loss on futures contracts due to potential nonperormanrce of coun-  teritories. so Ing as and to the extent that such currency shall not have
terparties was S1 million (S7 millIon_June 30. 1993).                been ini ially disbursed or exchanged tar lhe currecy ot another member.
The proisions of Article IV. Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreerier't been
Covered forwards are agreements in which cash in one cunency isconverted  extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA Ihrough
into  ditterent curency and. simultaneously. a torward exchange agreement  the third replenishment but are not applicable to those ol the fourth and
is executed providinj for a luture exchange of the two currencies in order  subseent replenishments
to recover the currency converted. Al June 30. 1994. IDA had gross   sh-
ceivables rom coveed lorward agreements ofS323 million (S119 million-  The Executive Directors decided on June 3D. 1987. that sehiements aI
June 30. 1993) and gross payables Ironm covered forward agreements of  maintenance-of-value obligations, which woutd result from Ihe iesolulion of



Notes to Financial Statements             207
Ihe valuation Issue on the basis DI the 1974 SDR, would be detlrred unlil  Note D-Transfers from  the Intemational Bank
the Executive Directors decide lo resure such selilements.          for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Tenth Replenishment: On March 31, 1993. the Board ci Govemonors or:TeIE'  or a  o asapoe  iasa   oIAttln
IDA adopted a resolution authorizng the tenth replenIshment ot IDA's re- ID:TelDsBor01GvrrsapvdtantstoDAoaIg
sources. The tlnth replunish>nt prvIdes IDA with resoue lto lund credlis  $3,10  mlIllon through Jun 30d,1993. 01 the tIal amount, SE millon has
comnmittd during the period July 1. 1993 to June 30. 1996. The amount ol  been disbursed tar gaunts tor agricultural reserch, the conrolr or onchocer-
the replenishmenl ricluding supplemntary contribulions proyided by car-  clasis, and othrdevelopmrial acilvilltes On Seplember 30, 1993, the
lain members, Is equIvalent to SDR 12.000 mIllion (at the exdiange rates  iBRD's Board ai Governors approved a transfer of $140 mlilon to IDA by
deltrmined pursuant toa formula agreed by IDA and Lontribuling donors).    vaY of grant. On Sember 24. 19. as amended on November It. 1993.
The tenth replenishment becMMe uflectlve on December 17, 19931      the IB3RD's BoardSo Governors autihorized a transter 0l an amount equivalent
to $325 mlilion by way dl a grant to IDA when the tenh replenishmentwould
Subscriptlons and Contributions Not Yet Due: Al June 30, 1994.      become efteclive, which occurred on December 17, 1993.
unresircted subscriplions and contribullons not yet due wDii become due as
tallows:                                                            Note E-Development Credits
In mililons                                                         Special Fund developument credits disbursed and ouLstanding at 5457 mil-
Period                                           June 30. 1994      lion al June 3D. 1994 (3431 million-June 30, 1993) are Included in the
-Statemets of Development Resources ol IDA sice principal repayments on
July 1. 1994 lhrough June 30, 1995                  S 5.362         these development credits will become pad ol the geial resources of IDA,
July 1. 1995 through June 30, 1996 .5.366                           unless otherwise provided In a decIsIon ot IDA's Executive Direclors to
Thereater ....        .       .      ......            115          terminate admInistration dl the Special Fund by IDA
Total ....            ,......                    si0.843          At June 30, 1994, principal Installm4ts ol $0.6 million and dcarges ol $0.5
million payable to IDA on developnmqt credits were overdue by more than
three monihs. Al June 30. 1994. Ihe aggregate principal amounts outstand-
Contribudons to Spacial Fund: Member conlribulions to the Special   iog on all developmenl credits to any bortewer, olher Ihan Ihose referred to
Fund ltoting S596 millkn at June 30. 1U. I(596 million-June 30. 1993)  In the tollowing paragraph, with any deveopment credit overdue by moe
are retlected as Member subscriptions and contributions in Ihe Statemeis  han hree months vs 5474 millin
of Development Resources. Al June 30. 1994, the Special Fund total is
reflected net of $389 million (3378 mrilion-une 30. 1993). which rep-  Al June 30, 1994. the devopmtent credits made to or guaranleed by etain
resents deWvopment credit disbursements Ihal are repayable o and Included  member countrles vilh an aggregate prlncIpal balance outstanding ol $3,533
in Member subscriptions and mnlribulions o1 IDA.                    million ($1.046 million-June 30, 1993). ol which S42 mililon ($18
miliionJune 30.1993) vas overdue, were In nonaccrual status. As ol such
Mernbership: On February 25.1993, Ihe IBRD-s Executive Dlrectors    ddate, overdue charges In respect ol these development credits totaled $46
cided that the Socialist Federal Republic ol Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased  million (S21 million-June 30. 1993). t these development credits had not
to bea memberol the liRD and that the Republic of Bosnia dnd Herzegovna,  been in nonaccrual status, Income from deveopment credits for the year
the Republic of Croat  the tomer Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the  ended June 30,1994 would have been higher by $31 million (S7 mIilion-
Republic of Slovenia and the Federa Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and  June 30. 1993), which is net of charges receIed Irom such members during
Monbnegro) are authorized to succeed to the membership of the SFRY in  Ihe year. A summary ot mernOer counlries Wth credis at guardnlees in
the lORD when certain requiremenis are met. In accordance wilh the Arlicles  nonathrey al stuaus followsa
of Agreementl olthe Association, on February 25.1993, the SFRY ceased lo
be a member ol IDA due to the cessation of ils membership in IBRO. Three  In milions
of Vie live successor Republics-4he Republics ol Croatia and Slovenia and
the former Yugoslav Republic of MacedonIa-have since becme members                                       June 30, 1994
of IDA. As ot June 30. 1994, the subscription ard contributions allocated to
the other successor Republics (he Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. and                                 Principal
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)) are included                      Principal  and Charges    Nonaccrual
under Payments on acwunt of pending membership.                     Borrower                Outstanding    Overdue       Since
On May 29. 1992, Switzerland became a memnber ot IDA. Before thal date  Afghanistan ........ .   S  75      S 3     June 1992
Switzehrand had contributed to IDA an equivalent of $51 million. As agreed  Haiti .............  342         13     Aril 1992
beween Ihe Swiss Confederation and IDA. these grant contributions were  Uieria.10                                   April 198b
converted to an IDA subscription. Further, during te cornmtnent periods  n a                                 1      Jy9
beween Ute fourth and the ninth replenishments of e  IDA resources,  Somlia ..........           424         19     July 1991
Switzedland had coDinarced projects by making available to IDA borrowers  Sudan ............   1,250         17     Janury 1994
untiEd grants in the aggregale amount ot Swiss Irancs 1.055 million (his-  Syrian Arab Republic . . .  44     7     April 1988
toriral U.S. dollar amount of $580 million). On July T. 19Z as agreed  Zaire .............    1.292         18     November 1993
dween the Swiss Confederalion and IDA. these grant contributions were
converled to an IDA subscription and contribution vhen Switerland con-  Total      .$3,533
tributed a further S68 million, representing the present value of fldure rtlows
of Ihe cofinancing grants if they had been made through IDA on IDA's  During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994. Congo paid off all of its arrears
repayment tlers. At June 30, 1994. 5512 million (3512 millionJune 30.  and tlhretore credits to ft came out ol nonaccrual status. As a result. income
1993). representing the difference between the lotal ceinancing grants of    lIom credits for the fiscal year ended June 30. 1994 increased by $2 million
S580 million and Ihe present value of fulure reflows o0 S68 million, have not  corresponding to income that would have been accrued in previous liscal
been included in the Member subscriplions and contributions in the State-  years. For the fiscal year ended JJre 30. 1993, no credits came out of
nrits of Development Resources.                                     nonaccrual staus.
(continued)



208    IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (=ntinued)
Note F-Disclosures about Fair Value of                                   of the disbursed and outsianding balance is chargedt however, to cover the
Financial Instruments                                                    casts ol administering the credits. Due to the concessional nature ot these
credits. it is not meaninglul to calculate a tair value lor oulstanding credits.
Investments: Since IDA carries ils invesnts at market value, the carry-
ing amount represents the air value of the porSolio. These tair values are  Note G0-ncome and Expenses
based on quoted market prices. where avaibable It quoted narket prices are
not availabWt tair values are based on quoted market prices ot comparable  IDA: IDA pays a mamgermient lee to Uie IBRD representing its share t the
instruments. The hair value of linanciat insiruments thal are short lerm  administrative expenses incurred by thu IBRD.
approxirnate their carry value.                                          Special Fund: The service and commitment charges payable by borrow-
Credits: All at IDA's credits are mnade to or guaranteed by countries that  ers under Special Fund development credits are paid directly to IDA to
are menbers ot IDA. These credits are made to provide concessional as-   compensate it for services as atoinistrator ol the Special Fund. incorre trom
sistance to low-income developing countries. While the principal arnount is  inesbmentisof the Special Fund becomes patt aithe resources oa theSpecia
tully repayable no interest is charged b th e borrower. A service teed 0o.75%  Fund.



209
Report of Independent Accountants
Price Waterhouse   The Hague               New York
(International Firm)    Beijing           Tokyo
Hong Kong             Washington
London
Price Waterhouse
July 27. 1994
President and Board of Governors
International Development Association and the
Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association
In our opinion. the financial statements appearing on pages 1% through 208 of this Report present fairly. in
all material respects, in terms of United States dollars. the financial position of the International Development
Association and the Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association at June 30.
1994 and 1993. and the changes in their accumulated surplus and their cash flows for the years then ended in
confornity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and with International Ac-
counting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management: our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. including International Standards on
Auditing, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining. on a test basis. evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management. and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above-
PAC UaPt
( _ F~



211
IBRD/IDA Appendices
1   Govemors and Altemates of the World Bank 212
2   Executive Directors and Altemates of the World Bank and Their Voting Power  216
3   Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank 218
4   Offices of the World Bank 221
5   IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and Region 228
6   IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor 230
7   Statement of IBRD Loans Approved during Fiscal Year 1994 234
8   Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1994 240
9   Current IBRD, IDA, and Blend Borrowers 245
10   Development Committee Communiquds, Fiscal Year 1994 246



212     IBrD/"DA Appendices
Governors and Aiternates                                                                             Appendix I
of the World Bank
June 30, 1994
Member                                                   Governor                                 Allerrate
Mghanistan ....            ......    Abdul KarWm Kherili ............,    Mothmmad Ehia an
Albania ..........                        Piro Dishin  .............                Adrian Xheri
Algeria ...........  Ahmed Benbilour .................                                 In Bracherni
Angola ............. Jose Pcdro de MorAs.& Sebasio Bastos Lamdor
Antigua and Babud  ..........             Molwyn Joseph ....................  Ludolph Bmwn
Agt   ..........                          Domingo Felipe Cavalo ..............   Rque Benjamin Fernndez
Anmenia ........................  Hrant A. Bagratian ...................   Aren Yeghizarian
Ausaria ....                               alph Willis ......................  Gordon Bilney
Austria .. Ferdinand Ladm .                                                         Hans Dieta Sches
Azertai.an.                    .......  Gaib. A           .gaye ..... ...V..Uagif K     i  AldAnedov
Baharrus The .........                     . Hubert A. Igrham  ........... Ltr E Smith
Bar  .........                            l. rlbraim Abdul Katim.i .                        hashed AL Al-Mari
Bangldesh .-----------------------M. Sailur Rahman ................  Muha adi Lutfullahil MaIid
Barbadoe ...                              L Eraine Sand'dord t.--------------  Gerge Reid
Belat ..         ..                    ..N. N.NUW Filippoich       Ruras ....   Nikolai K Lisai
Belgium ........                          Phiippe Mayadt             /bAlns Verplasese
Beri-e... ... ... . Dea 0. Barrow  ........ .... Joseph D. Waight
Bin .------.....-----..--.--.  Robert Tagnon .                    .......   Rigobet Ledikpo
Bhutan                                    Dorli Tshering                            Yeshey imba
Broliia ..........................  Fernndo Alvaro Cossio .         ----------  G ab rrCand  de Meczdo
Bots   ....                     ...... Feshs a Mog ................... Goldie John Seoniam
Brai .l....... ...................  Rubens Ricupero ....... ......                  Pedro Sarnpio Malan
Bulgarie' ...Sta..n M.. S and                                                        Mileti Mkadenov
Burkina Faso .........hi.....  h rin Diabre .-------------------   T- Celestin liendeoo
Burundi .....   Tayi Salvaw. --.  Nestor Ntungwan
Camtodia ...                              Sam Rainsy .-----  Chain Prasidn
Canwoon.                      ......  Augtin Fredic Kodock .---------               Esther Dang Beribi
Caada ...                                   ul   ....................... Huguette Labelle
Cape Verde .Jose Tents Veiga ..........M..... Aeandre Yieira Fhntes
Central Afican Republic .Thierry Bingaba -                           ..             Gregoire Zowaye
Chad .t...                     .          In Ouner MaN anut Saleh ...........   Hassan Adoum Bakhit
Chile ...... .........            ....  Eduardo Aninat ..........          .....  Jose Pablo Arellano
China .----------------------Uu Zhangli...                                         irn Renqing
Colombia ...                              Rudolf Hoimmes .................... hndo Montenegro
Cmmras                 . .............. Assouman Aboudou -------------.- CaUbane Abdalakh Halk
Congo .. .................... Clement Meuarrba .----------                          Arnoine Banvidi
Costa Rica ---------------                Fernando Hern  Acosta .-----------   Leonardo Gamier Rfnolo
COle Er'voire ----------.-N---ia- NliGe ra  . ..................  Victor Kouame
Cmatia ...                                Zoran Jasic ................. Josip Kuris
Cyprus ...............  Ptfdos Economides ... ....i..                                 chael Emtdits
Czech Republic ....                       Wan Kocamik.Jan .Vit
Denmark .................. .              Helle Degn ..                             Ole Loema Paulsen
Ojibout ...                               Amed Aden Yoissoutf .Ibrhir.                   m assim Chehem
Dominica .........                        Mary Eugenia Chades ...............  Gilbert Williams
Dominican Republic ..........       ..   Maria Rad Vitlini ....          ....    fligio J. Bisano B.
Ecuador ....a..........r..........   O             Robain  Gonaga ............   Modesto Corea
Ebypt Arab Rep. of ......... .'           Kual Ahmed El-Gmoury ............   Youset Bwtos Ghali
El Salvador .........   Ramon Gonzalez Giner.                                       Jost Roberta Orellana Milla
EquatoTbl Guinea  ...     ..M..   Manuel-Enrique King Sorno.Felipe Hinestrosa Ika
Estonia' .............  Heib Kranich ........... ..........  Martin Poder
Ethiopia ...........                      Alemayehu Daba ...................  Abdulmejid Hussein
Fil .......u.............                 Paul F. Martuei ....               . -  Rigarnoto Taito
Finland ..........................  liro Viiarmen .......... .....Ton Karcamnnierni



Appendkx 1   213
Mernber                                                     Governor                                   Alternate
Fr          a n c e   ..........            Jean-Claude Tri             het ..................  ristian Nouer
Gabon          ..........                   Andre Dieudonne Bere .....              .   Richard Onuit
Gambia. The .......                         Baay B.a D          a b           o ................... Alieu M. Ngum
Georgia .......                             David lakobidze ....      .      .......a  Tengz Geleishnii
G e rany .......                            Cad-Dieter Spranger                          G.........e........  t Haller
Ghana  ......K.................  Kesi Botchusy  ........                                 Kwesi Amissah-Alur
Greece ..............                       Yanrinos Papmntoniou         ..........   George Romeos
G       r     eda .........................   NiChDIas  atal      w     aitee ...............  Noan K. Murray
G uat             eala ..............a..........   Ana Ordonez de Molina ..............   Willy W. 2apata Sagastume
G         uiinea ..........n                Soriba Kaba  ......................   KerulalaYnsarne
GuneaBisu ...........nea                    Filinto Barns                                 sso......  su  Sanha
G        u y ana ..........                  Asgarp              AI ..............       MihalSheerCtan
Haifi .......*....                          Marie  ichele Rey  .........                 Jean-Made Chersal
Honduras ...*..                             Juan Fe           r    re      r a           Hu...................   Hugo Noe Pino
H u njagy ...... .......   Ivan Szabo .... ....... ...                                   Almos Koacs
Iceland                                 .   Sighvatur Bjorgwinsson  ..............   Fridnik Sophusson
.ndia  ...........................   Manmohan Singh   ..............                     MoSak Singh Ahiuwalia
Indooes .       ...........                 Marie Mulnad    ..............   Boediono
Iran, Islamic ReV. of ..............        Mortm      o          ia -                   Mehdi Navab Mollagh
Iraq ......                                 Tari TM. Al Tuhi  ............   Hashim Ari Obaid
Ireland ......                              BertieAhem  .............   Pa     Mullake
I sa                       e       l      ...   Jmb A. Frenkel ...................   Aawn Fogef
ItlY                           .            Antonio Fazio                                Mario Draghi
Jar           nuliCal                       Omar D         a v.es   Morie Herpriques
Ja             pa.                           HirohisaFuji1i                              Yasushi ieno
Jordan ..                                     Listarm K        h at-b                    Marwan Aud
Kaza             .............    Ereshbay Zh Derbiv ..............   Mars Udrnbayev
Kerya ............                          W- Musalia Mudadi .............              Benjarmin Kipkoech Klpkulb
K    i       r ibadi ..........................  iaona  luti  ........IS.......S         Noua Tetinaniku
Koa,a  Republic of             ........  Jae-Hyong Hong .         ..............   Myung-Ho Kim
Kuaait ..........................   Nasser Abdulah Al-HRouan .......B...                  ader MesIWh  AI-Humaidhi
Kyrgyz Republic ....... . ..Ka...   K am hbkrov Sha              ................   Asr L Sarygulov
Lao People's Democratic Repubric ......   Khamay Souphanouvng  .            .Pany Yatholou
Labia .         .............                Ojars Kehris  .          .Uldis Osis
Lebanon .         .............Fd A.B. Siniora -                                         El-Fd Chalak
Lesotho   .            ............. Selornmesi Baholo ..               .E  Mate.L                  ns
Liberia .        .............              Amelia A. Ward .          .Wilson K Tarpeh
LUbya --.. .  ....---Mahamed A. Bait El Mal ..                                           Bashir Ali Khalat
Lithuni .              .                    Julius Vesdka  . .Eduardas Vilkelis
Lwembourg .             .                   Jean-Claude Juncker. .Yves Mersch
Macedonia. former Yugoslav Republic of - .   Dzevdet Hariredni   .      .Hari Kostov
Madaga  .. ............. Tovnahry Rabesitonta ..Raljona Anduiai a
Malawi .         .............              Louis Joseph Chimango . .Charles D. Nthenda
Malaysia               .         .          Anwr Ibrahim              . .                Moh. Sheriff Kassirn
Maidives .        ..............FaMla Jame   .                         .                 Mohaned Ahred Didi
Mali .......................   Soumaila Cisse ..............   Issaga Denbele
Mai   ........................   John Dalli .......                      .......    Albert A Allard
Marshall Islands ...................   Ruben R. Zackhias  ..............    Michel Konelios
Mauritania  .......................   Tald Ould Sidi .....             ..   Mohed Lenine Ould Deidah
Maumnus .......................   Paradmah s Nababsing ..............   Dharam Du Manrda
Mexico .......................   Pedro Aspe Amella ..............                        Guillerno Orfiz
Wcronesia Federated Stles of .......    Alysius J. Tuulh  ..............   Asterio Takesy
fanuW)



214  IBRDADA Appendkes
Governors and Aiternates                                                                                 PAppendix I
of the World Bank
June 30, 1994
Member                                                      Govremor                                   Altenate
Motdoua .....                               Valeriu Sergiu KIlsan ................    Dumitru Ursu
Mongolia .....                              Dedchigiavyn Molomzhamts ..........   Datin Davaasambuu
Morocco .......... M'Hammed Sagou .Omar Kabbal
Mozarnbique .....                           Eneas da Conceiao Comiche .Adriano Alonso Maleiane
Myannr .....                                Win Tin ................                     Thein ALing Lwin
Namibiea ..e.... .                            de.ha Ngairue ..........                  Godhey Gaoseb
Nepal    .       ......   Mahesh Aday.    ....... ..........  Tllu r Nath Pant
Neherlands ...Wirm Kok .J.P. Prank
New Zealand .....                           Murray Hom .John Whitehead
Nicaragua .. ........   Bniio Pereira Alegria  ..........                               Jose Evenor Taboada Arna
Niger .Abdallah Boureima ................. Kane Aichatou Boulama
Nigei ia .Ka..lu Idilm Kale .....                                                       Gidado ISkis
N 96z   I  ;     a      l      u        Idih It..u        .........    .............. 0dolri
Norway ......                     ...... Sgbioem Johnsen .........                      Kari Nordheim-Larsen
Oman ..O.a. Ots Abdul-Munirn Al-Zawawi .......... Mohammed Bin Musa Al Yousel
Pakstan..                                   VA Jaarey ...................... Aab Ahamd Khan
Panama .........    Delia Cardenas ......... ...   Luis H. Moreno, Jr.
Papua New Guinea ........... ... Mask langalio .Gera Aopi
Paraguay ...........  Crispiniano Sandoval ................  Julio Gonzalez Ugarte
Peru ....                                   Jorge Cant Dicknnn .... . ...... Altedo Jarilie Awapara
Philippines .........R.......   Rrberto F. de Ocampo .Gabriel C. Singson
Poland ............K......              . Hanma Gmniewjz-Waltz   .                  IWtold Kazinsid
Pworgal .                                   Eduardo de Almeida Caroga.                  F. Estves de Carvaiho
Dliat .                                     Mohammed bin Khallia A-Thmni .              Abdullah Khalid Al-Attiyh
Romaritraa .... ..         ....         .   Florin Ge .rgesai..            ....    Vladimir Sure
Russian Federain ..                         Aleksandr N. Shokhin ............           Vitor V. Gerashchenko
Rwanda ..                                   Marc Rugenera                     . . Feilcien Ntahandi
Sa lats and Nevis  ..          ...........   Kenedy A. Simmonds ...............   William V. Herbert
St Lucia ........    ................  John GM   Compt  ..........                      Zenith   mes
aL Vircet and the Grenadines .........    James F. Mitchell  .         ..................    Dwight Venner
SaO Tone and Prindpe ..............    Arlindo Alamo de Carvalho .. .........    Adelina Castelo David
Saudi Arabia ..............         ....   Mohamrnad Abalil ...............   Hamad Al-Sari
Senegal .-------------------------Papa Ousne Sakho ...                      ....... Awa Thiongane
Seychelles' ....................... Dani elle de SL Jorre .E..........m. Emanuel Fure
Sierra Leone .                              John A. Karim  ...... ..............   NahIaniel S.. Wellington
Singapore .............. Richard Hu Tsu Tau ........                                    Ngiam Tong Dow
Slovak Republic .......  Brigita Schmgnerova ...............   Vladimir Maser
Slovfnia ..                                 Mitia Gaspar ........... Bozo Jasovic
Solomon Ilands ..................  Andrew G.H Nord .......                              Manasseh Sogavare
Somalia .........................   (vaouX ........................  (vacan)
South Africa .....h........... 0ristian Lodewyk Stais ..............  Andries Benjamin La Grange
Spain ...                                   Pedro Solbes Mira ......                    Allredo Pastor Bodner
Sri Lanka ...... D.B. WVjtunga .. PasFakalingam
Sudan ......... Mohamed lar El Zubair ........... A Mhned Hassan
Suriname' ..                       .        Humphrey S. Hildenberg  ..........          Stanley B. Ramsaran
Swaziland ...  ............k... T                     e. .aaku .Musa 0D Faudze
Sweden ............. Anne Wibble ............- Alf Svensson
Switzerland ............                    Jean-Psal Delamnuraz .... Flaso Coffi
Syrian Amab Republic ..........             Mohammed Khaled Al-Mahayni.                 Adan Al-SaRi
Talikistan ..........                       Kayum K Kavmidinov .Normiat 1. lounoussov
Tanzania ......... .............   Horace Kolimba ....................   Peter J. Ngumbullu



Appendix 1   215
Member                                                        Governor                                    Altenate
Thailand ..........    Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda ............   Anan Thammano
Togo  ..........    Yandja Yenichabre .................     Kwassi Klutse
Tonga ..........    James Cecil Cocker ................                                     vacant)
Trinidad and Tobago ..........                Wendell Mottley .............          .     T. Ainsworth Harewoad
Tunisia ..........    Mohamed Ghannouchi .............                                     Toulik Baccar
Turkey ...........Osnan Birsen ............                                                Ayfer Yilmaz
Turkmenistanr  ....           ......    Hudalberdy A. Orzov  ............                  Annadurdy Khadjlev
Uganda ..........    Jehoash Mayanja-Niangi .............   Enmnu el T. MuLebile
Ukraine ..                                   Viktor Yushclenko .Michael 0. Goncharuk
United Arab Emirates .......         ...    Hamidan bin Rashid Al-Makioum   .......   Ahmed Humald AI-Tayer
United lKngdom  .....            .....    Kenneth Clarke .................                 Baroness  haker of Walbsey
United Stats  ....            ......    Lloyd Mt Bentsen  .................    Joan E Spero
Uniguy  ...........    Ignacio de Posadas .................   Javier de Haedo
Uzbeldstan .........                          Bakhtiyar S. Hamidv ...............   Vyasheslav A. Gotyshew
Vanmua   .........    Willie Jimmy ........... .....                                       Antoine Pikoure
Veneue .a.          ..........  Julio Sosa Rodriguez ................  Bo del BulWo
Viet Nam ...                ......   Cao Sy Kiem ................  Le Van Chau
Westen Samoa ....               .....    Tuilaepa S. Mialielegaoi ..............    Epa Tuioti
Yemenu  Republic oa  .....         ....    Abdul Kadm Al-Eryani ...............    Anwar Rizq AI-iarazi
Zaire  ..C.......                              elestin Tshibwabwa Kama .........    Kakese Mulume-Nda-Mumi
Zambia .........   Ronald Dasn Slt Pen   ..........   James K  Mtonga
Zimbabwe .........    B.T.G. Chidrero ................                                     Leonard Ladislas Tsumba
a. Not a member ofl he IDA.



216     IBRDtlDA Appendices
Excecutive Directors and Alternates                                                               Appendix 2
of the World Bank and
Their Voting Power
June 30, 1994
113RD   _    __OA
Tla    x of   Tda       %t d
Exuve direct                           Alenat                    CSang vae of            voaes   toa     votes    tow
Appaoined
Jan Piercy .............(vacn   ..t.....                Lhiited Slates ............... 249.143 17.42 1.490.101  15.67
Yasuykib Kawahara ......... Kiyoshi Kodurt  ........ Japan .                             94.02U  G.58   988.143 1039
Fritz Fischer .........       Hald Rehm ........... Germany. 7.649  .08   658,521   6.9
Marc-Antoine Aufxenn ......O Jrme Has .Fance .69.647 4.87 390,814 4.11
Hw ari ....                   DavidSb     o ..........St  United linrgdom .69.647  4.87   495,81  522
Elected
Walter Rill ....              Nurcan Akturk .. Austia. Belarus Belgium.
(Astia)                       (Tukey)                 Czech Republic, Hungary,
1khstaL Lweu gm,
Slovak Republi. Tudrey .......    71.048  4.97   391,440  4.12
Eveline Herfes ..      ..    lleana Ilonescu-   Armenia. Bulgara' Cyprus;
(Netherlands)                (Ramania)                Georgi  IsraeL Moldova,
Neterlands, Romania UkIue    68.189  4.77   277.873   2.9
Robert RB. de Cotret ......... Hubert Dean .. ......... Antigua and BarbuWdaa The
(Canada)                     (the Bahamas)            Bahara' Barbados.' Beliz
Canada. Dominica. Gnrada.
Guyarn. Ibrend Jamaica.
5 kitts and rti, SL Lucia.
SL Vincent and the Grenadines   61.511  4.30   406.908  428
Angel Tonres ...        ..  Gabriel Castellanos  ... Costa Rca. El Salvador
(Spain)                       (Guatemala)             GuatWlal Handuras. Mexico
Nicuagua. Panam. Spain,
Veneaela ............5....  5848  4.12   201D523   212
Birnal JaIan .                MA Syed  .-         .     Bangladesh Bhutan, India,
(India)                       (Bangladesh)            Sri L ak..                      54945  3.84  412999   4.34
Ero Grilli ...                Helena Cordeiro .   .---- Albania, Greece, laly. Mafia.'
(Itly)                       (Portugal                Portugal .54.354  3.80   334207  3.51
Jorunn Maehlum'  .......... Helga Jonsdotfir ........ Denmark Estonia' Finland,
(Norway)                      (Iceland)               kelnd. Latia. Lithuania'
Nonay, Sweden                   49,166  3.44   470,159  4.94
Mohtaed Benhcdrie ........ Abdul Karim Lodhi  ... Alfwnstan. Algeria. Glana.
(Algeria)                     (Pakistn)              Iran (Islamic Republicof)
Morocco, Pakistan. Tunisi .   ....  49693  3.41   213,196  2.24
Marcus Caramuw de Paiva ....    arcea Caragena  ... Brazil. Colombia, Dominican
(Brazil)                      (Ecuador)               Republic. Ecuador. Haii,
Philippiines, Suriname'
Trinidad and Tobago ..........  46.93  3.26   276.194  2.90
Wang Uansheng ..........  Bng Shengman .          .-----  Chia ........  45.049  115   193370   2.03
(China)                       (China)
Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf ......... Ibrahim Mh AI-Molfeh  .... Saudi Arabia .45,045  115   330.314  34T
(Saudi Arabia)                (Saudi Arabia)
John H. Cosgrove ........  Bang-Hee Won .........   Australia, Kiribati, Korea
(Australia)                   (Republic of Korea)     (Republic of. Marshall Islands.
Mongolia New Zeaand.
Papua New Guinea. Solomon
Isands, Vanuatu, Western Snma   43.606  105   254,870  2.68
JeanDaniel Gerber ..........  Jan Sulmic- i.... z. kerbaijane' Kyrgyz Republicr
(Swizerland)                  (Poland)                Poland Switzedand.
Turtienstan.' Uzbeldstan ......    42.484  2.97   305.631  3.21



AppendIx 2        217
IORD            IDA
Totl  Sod    TOW       t o
E    e director                       Alternate                  Casting voles at         votes  tkm      aS      tow
Faist A Al-Khaled ........ Mohwaed W    t   ......  Datuamia Egypt (Aflb Republic
(Kuwait)                    (Arab Republic of Egypt)  ofl), Jord    Kuwa  Lebanon.
Libya. Maldives 0man, Omatar
Synan Arab Republic, United
Arab Enires, Yemen (Republic of)  42047  2.94  237.357  2.50
Aris Oht         run....  . Jamnes Hutagalung  ....... F Indonesia, Lao Peoples
(Malasia)                   (Indonesia)              Democratic Republic, Malaysia,
Myanmar, Nepal, Sing r
Thailand, Tonga. Viet Nan ....... 37A494  2.62  276.566  2.91
O.K Matan-a                . . Hairy MI. Mapondo      . Angula. Botsw;an  Burundl
(Batswcn)                    (Malawi)                Ethiopa, The Gambia, Guinea.
Kena, Lesot. Liberia. M W.i,
Mozantique, Namibia? Nigeria,
Seychelles Serra Leon  Sudan,
Swaziand  Tanzania. Uganda.
Zambia, Zin   b  ............ 32,022  224  404,692  4.2
Andrei Ougrav             .  Aexnder NI Doumnov ... . Russian Fed          ation ............ 25,390  1.78   28202    .30
LRussim Fedaion)          .Rssian Federuion)
Nicols  a    .........o  - . Julia Nogues ........... ArgWeina, Bolima, Chile,
(Chile)                      (Argetina)              Parauay. Peru, Urugua ........ 24.745  1.73  176246  185
Jean-Pierre Le Bouder ......  AlI Bourhane.--. Benin, Burk   Faso, Cameror,
(Cenral Afriman              (Comores)               Cape Verde, Cetral African
Republic)                                         Repubrc, Chad Caom, Congo,
C(le dIvoire, Dj-ibouti Eqial
Gukn, Gabon. Guinea-Wet,
Ua~acr, Mali, Mauritania.
Mauritius, Niger, wanda, Sac
Torrt and Prindpe, Senegal
Togo, Zaire ..................  23,537  1.65  293,488  3.09
In addition to the eecutive directors and altes shown in the foregoing list fe following alo served alter June 30.1993:
Execulive director       End of pedod of sane                           Alterne director         End of period of srvice
Boris G. Fedrov ........       October 30, 1993                         Ahned M. Al-Ghannam ...... Decamter 28, 1993
(Rluian Federion)                                                       (Saudi Arabia
Jean-ierre Landau. .-..-.-August 3,1993                                  Fernando S. Cameir .Sepember 2,1993
(France)                                                                (Portgal)
Pedro Matan ............... October 30,1993                              MWak M. Collins, Jr .......... December 3,1993
(Bril)                                                                  (Uted Slates)
David Peretz ..........  .. Febray 18,1994                              Arshad Farooq .March 22 1994
(UUnited Kingdom)                                                       (Pakistn)
Frank Pater ................ August 19, 1993
(Cmada)
Brrmrd Snoy ............ Febnrary 28.1994
(Belgium)
Nmt Cambodei (464 votes in IBRD and 71.26 voles in IDA). Iraq (3.058 vats in lRD and 9.407 votes in IDA). Sond (02 mvles bi tBR1 and lOSOS votes
in IDA) and South Africa (12712 aesin l8RD and 29.813 votes in IDA) did not partiipat in te 1992 Regular Secdaon of Benive Diflt Coalia (1=537
votes ki IBRD and 28.087 votes in IA). fanner Yugasv Rlepublic a Madonia (490 vs in 1iR1D and 15.759 aes in IDA). Fedeated States of Mtrnesia
(729 votes in ItRO and 18,424 tes in IDA), Sovenia 0.511 vot in IBRD and 18.956 as in IDA) ard Taiilstan (1.310 voes in IBRO and 20.r  vaes
in IDA) beame rbrs arer a efecioin.
a. Memnber of 1l WARD on.
b. To be st    by Rintr ra    (Japan) deective July 1.1994.
C To be sieeded by RUlt tby (Adln) eltive AUgst 21994.



218  IBERDDAA             dloes
Officers and Department Directors    Appendix 3
of the World Bank
June30, 1994
President. ...........................................................    wis T. Preston
Mamging Direct  .........................................................                       Atla Karaosnanoglu
Managing Director ................................S.........................' Swn Sandstm
Managing Director .........................................................                        est Sten
Vice Presiden Ala ......A.............................. Edvward V. Jaycox
Vice President Colinrncing and    ncial Adisory.                  ...........................   Koji Kashiwaya
Vice Prsident and Controller . ..................................................               Stephen D. Ecles
Vice Presidnt and Chief Economist Development Economics ........          ...................    Micet Bruro
Vice Presiden East Asia and Pacific ...................                                         Gauam & Kaii
Vie Presidet  Environmentally Sustainable Developent ........         ......................    Ismail M. Serageldin
Vice President Eurompe and Central Asia ..............     ..............................       Wilfried P. Thulwiz
Ve President Finance and Privae Sedor Devdopment ...............................                 ea-Franvos Rischard
Vice President Fnancial Policy and Risk Manaement ........          ........................    Johannes F. ULn
Vice President Hur   Resourc  Developmet and Operafions Porly .............Aree.......             Aeme 1  Choksi
VWe President Latin Ameica and Caribbean ...........          ............................      S. Javed Bum
Vice President and Genval Counsel ................................_._._._......    Ibrahim F1I. Shihala
VWe President Management and Personnl Services ...........S......................                   Shahid Husain
Wce President  Middle East and North Afica .... ..             ..........            .          Caio K Koch-Weser
Director-GaerL Opeations Evaluation ..............................R .....c........    n                  ciotto
Vce President and Secretary .. ...............            ...........................    Tmot     Thhane
Vc President South Asia ..............................                                .....     Joseph D. Wood
Vice President and Treasrer ................          ..............................    Jessica P. Enhom
External Affairs
Director, Eernal Afairs Depart t ........................M...d...................    Aber Shalkw
Director. European Offmic ................... ..........  Hans Wmss
Legal
Assstant General Counse. Administraion and GaeW Atirs ...........................    Eva L Meigher
Assistant General Cotfsd, Fn mce ................................................    Stephen k Silard
A    ant General Counsel, Operaions .....................g........................    A                  Rigo
Secets
Deputy Secety, General Operations ...................... .........................               Anold   Clif
Africa Regional Offtce
Dinctor, Occidental and Central Africa Deairbnt Benin. Cameroon, Cental African Republic,
Congo, Cole dioire Equatorial Guinea, Gabonr Guinea, Togo .                                  OlMer Laourcade
Direcor. Eastem Africa Department Eibe, Ethiopia, Kerla Somalia, Sudan, Tamania. Uganda...    Francis XL Colaco
Director, South-C      and Indian Ocean Department Angola BuruJndi, Comoms Djibouti,
Madagascar, Mauritus Rwnda, Seychles, Zaire ...................................               ... AguinrSacasa
Director, Western Africa Departet Ghana,  bia. Nigia. Sierra Lone ..................           ian     Hune
Director, Sabelian Deparbet Buridna Faso, Cape Vedk  Chad, The Gambia Guinea-Bissau Mali,
Mauritania. Niger, Sao Tooe and Prindpe, Senegal .K--------------------------                Katherine Marshall
Director, Soutem Akica Depament Botwana, Lesoto. Malavui, Mozaribique, Naibiia, South
Africa. Swazibnd Zambia, Zimbabwe ......... ...................................             Slephen UL Denning
Director, Arica Technical Depantment .....................K. Kevin M. Cleaver
Asia Technical Department
Director ..................................................................    Harold W. Messenger
East Asia and Pacifc Regional Office
Director, Country Department 1: Cam-bodia, Republic of Koek Lao PDR, Malaysia. Mekong
Committ  Myanmar. Philippines. Thailand, Viet Nan  ........        ......................    Callisto E Madavo
Diretor. Country Deparment II: China, Mongolia ..............                                   Nicholas C. Hope
Director. Country Depa t ll Fiji Indonesia IGba, The Marshall Islands, Micmnesia. Papua
New Guinea. Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vatu. Western Samoa .......................    Marianne Hag
South Asia Regional Office
Director, Country  epartment 1: Bangladesh, Bhut   Nepal .......... ..................    Am 0. Hamillon
Director, Country Depamnt It: India ...........................................e. . i  Veigin
Director. Coutry Department Ill Afghanistan, Maldives, Palistan, Sri Lanka ...... ...........    Paul Isenman



Appendix 3        219
Europe and Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa Regions Technical
Department
Diredor .........................................................                          Anil Sood
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Directr. Country Departent I: Bulgaa, Cyprus. FYR of Macedontia, Pougal Romania, Tuky .. richdel H. VWehe
DirMeor, Country Dqeatent II: Albania. Republic of Bosnia and Huizegin  Cradia. Czech
Republic, Hungay, Poland, Sovlak Republic, Slovenia ...................el........... 1             Dervis
Director, Contry Deptentit IAzerbaijan, Kazakhtan Kyrgyz Republic, Russia, Tajilstan,
Turlnfenistan, Uzbedstan  ..... .............................................. Russell J. Cheuham
Director. Country Deparbtent [V: Armenia, Belarus, Estonia. Georgia, Lavia, Lithuania. Moldova.
Ub;ane .             ........... Basil G. Kavalsky
Director. Resource Mobilization and Prie.............................. Ghassan El-Rita]
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Director Coutry Depament 1: Algeria. Islamic Republic of Mran. Liba, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia .. Daniel Ritchie
Director, Country Department II: Bahrain, EgypL baq, Jordan. ruamtL Lebanon, Occupied
Territories, Oman. Qatar, Saud: Arabia, Syri  Arab Republic, United Arab Eirates,
Republic of Ym.en..................................................... am Kumar Chopra
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Ofike
Diredor. County Deparnent 1: Brazil. Peru Venezuela ..................                       ainer B. StEcidan
Director. Country Department II: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras. MIdco Nca,
Panam ...........                       ..................                           .Edilberto L Segura
Director, Country Deparment lit The Baham     Barbados. Berze, Bolivia, Caribbean Delopment
Bank Colomnbia, Dominican Republic, Guwana. Haiu. Jamaica, OEGS M tnber States, Suriname,
Trinidad and Tobago .Y.s........................ Yoshiai Abe
Director. Country Departient I: Argentina, Chile, Ecuador. Paraguay, Unuguay ...... ......... Fing-Cheung Loh
Director. Technil Deparment .........................             .M..G. SiRam Aiyer
Cofinancing and Flnancial Advisory ServiceE
Director ........................                                                          Inder SWu
Development Economics
Diecor Development Paricy .................................... ............... M                 ak W.  ird
Diector. Economic Developnent Institte . . . . . .Am........ kion Golan
Director, International Economics Depatent . . . . ........   Masood Ahnmed
Director, Policy Research Department ........................ Lyn Squire
Administator. Research Advisory Staff .................................- Sthaid Yusut (Acting)
Environmentally Sustainable Development
Director, Agriculture and Natural Resources Department ...                                 Micelt. J. Petit
Chief Environmental Adior to the President and Director, Environment Departnent .......... ....... Mohamed T. E-Ashry
Director. Tmnsportation, Water. and Urban Development Department ........................ Louis Y. Pouliquen
Execte Seretay, Cosultative Gmup On International Agricultural Reserch ......      ......... Alexmnder von der Osten
Finance and Private Sector Developnmnt
Director, Firncial Sector Development Department ............      ...................... Gary L Perin
Director. Industry and Energy Deparmt ........................................... Richard D. Stem
Director, Private Sector Deveopment Department ...............     ..................... Magdi R Isknder
Human Resources Development and Operatons Pol
Director, Educatior and Social Policy Department ............. .................           KY. Amoako
Director, Operations Policy Departent .....................J.........                      James W. Adams
Director. Population. Health and Nutriton D epartent ..........       .................J anet de Merode
Director, Public Sector Management .............................. Alberto de Capitani
(contiw4



220      IBRDIIDA Appendces
Officers and Department Directors                                                                       Appendix 3
of the World Bank (conYfnue
June 30, 1994
Financial Policy and Risk Management
Direclor. Resource Mobilization Departent .............        ...........................        Paula Donovan
Oitector. Risk Management and Financial Policy Department ........        ....................    Mieko Nishimizu
Treasurer's
Director. Cash Management Departen  ...............           ............................        Wtter Peyed
Director, irnancial Operations Department ..............     .............................        Kenneth G. Lay
Director. Invstmient Departent .   ................................................               Veronique Lavorel
Director. Pension Department .    .................................................               Nestor V. Saniago
Director, Too Oice ......... ................................................                     Shinichiro Kawamriata
Controllers
Director. Accounting Department.Mcael Euddy
Direclor, h::ounling DepaXnent .........................................................  Michxl E RuJoy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............................  ic
Auditor General, Intemal Auditing Departent.        ......................................        Alan D. Legg
Director. Loan Department ..................................                                      V.S. Raghavan
Direclor. Planning and Budgeting Department .............        ..........................       Richard B. Lynn
Management and Personnet Services
Director. Gneral Services Department ............................................    Pilar J. San Jose
Director. Headquarters Construction Deparment ...........         ..........................    Ernesto E. Henriod
Director Hadth Services Department                                                       ..... Bemhard H. Uese
Di rector, Organization and Busi ess Praclices Department'.t[an A. Scott
Director, Personnel Management Department .................................. ....                 Peter Karp
Director, Personnel Services and Compensation Deparmt ......................EIv......  -verardo Wessels
Operatons Evaluation
Director, Operations Evaluation Department ........................................iHarts-Eberard Kopp



Appendb  4       22
Offices of the World Bank                                                                         Appendix 4
June 30, 1994
Headquarters: 1818 H Streetl N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433, U.SA
New York Office                          Carlslon B. Boucher                     The World Bank Mlsslon to the
Special Representative to the              United Nations/New York Office
United Nations                        809 United Nallons Plaza Suite 900
New York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.
European Offlice                         Hans Wyss                               The World Bank
I)irector                               66, avenue d'lena
75116 Paris, France
London                                   (vacant)                                World Bank
Resident Administrative                 New Zealand House, 15th Floor
Officer                                 Hayrnarket
London. SW1 Y4TE, England
Tokyo Office                             Shnichmiro Kawanata                      The World Bank
Directr                                 Kokusai Building (Roam 916)
1-1, Marunauchli 3-chone
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan
Reglonal Mission                         F. Stephen O'Brien                      The World Bank
In Eastem Africa                      Chief, Resident Mission                  View Park Towers
Monrovia Street
Nairobi. Kerya
(maailing address: P.O. Box 30577)
Regional Mission                         Robert A. Calderisi                     The World Bank
in Westem Africa                      Chief, Resident Mission                  Comer of Booker Washington and
Jaques AA Streets
Cocady. Abidjan 01
Cole d'lvoire
(mailing address: B.P. 1850)
Regional Mission                         Bradley 0. Babsor?                      The World Barik
in Thailand                           Chief, Resident Mission                  14th Roor, Tower A. Diethelm Towers
9311 Wireless Road,
BangXku 10330 Thailand
Regional Mission in                      Lars Jeurling                           The World Bank
Latvia                                Chief, Resident Mission                  Kaliku Street, 15
Riga Latvia 1050
Baltics Regional Mission                 Hillar Laud                             The World BanklMaailmapank
Satellite in Estonia                  Operations Oficer                        Kohtu 8
Tallinn EED001
Estonia
Baitics Regional Mission                 Ramune Zabuliene                        The World Bank
Satellite in Uthuania                 Operations Orcer                         Gedimino Avenue 11
Vilnius 2039
Lithuania
Albania                                  Kuttay Ebiri                             The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Deshmoret e 4 Shkurtil No. 34
Tirana, Albania
Angola                                   Florent Agueh                           Bnco Mundial
Resident Representaive                  Rua Alfredo Troni (Edifico BPC)
140 Andar
CP 1331. Luanda, Angola
Argentina                                Patricio Millan                          Banco Mundiat
PResident Representative                Piso 12
Avenida Leandro N. AJem 628-30
Buenos Aires, Argentina
(continued



222     IBRD/IDA Appendlces
Offices of the World Bank  (confinued)                                                            Appendix 4
June 30, 1994
Bangladesh                                Chrhslopher Willoughbyb                The World Bank
Chiel, Resident Mission               3A Paribagh
Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
(mailing address: G.P.O. 97)
Belarus                                   (vacanQf                               The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission               6A Parizansky Avenue, 5th Floor
Minsk 220033
Republic ol Belarus
Benin                                      (vacant)                              The World Bank
Resident Representative               Zone Residunllelle de la Radio
Cotonou, Benin
(mailing address: B.P. 03-2112)
Bolivia                                    Constance A. Bernard                  Banco Mundial
Resident Representative               Edificlo BISA. Piso 9
16 de Julio 1628
La Paz, Bolivia
(mailing address: Casilla 8692)
Brazil                                     Braz Menezes (Acting)                 Banco Mundial
Resident Representative               Setor Comercial Sul, Quadra 1, Blocw H
Edilfclo Morro Vermelho-8 Andar
Brasilia, OF 70399-900, Brazil
Brazil                                    Braz Mnezes (Acting)                   Banco Mundial
Representative                        RL3 'Jlsconde de Pirala
No. 351, Sala 1206,
Ipanerna 22410-003
Rio de Janeiro, Rd, Brazil
Brazil                                    Tulio Barbosa                          Banco Mundlal, S/127
Acdng Head ol Field Otfice            Edilicio SUDENE
Cidade Universithria
50.738 Recite PE Brazil
Bulgaria                                  John Wilton                            The World Bank
Resident Represenlative               World Trade Center-Sofia
36 Dragan Tsankov Boulevard
Sofia, Bulgaria
Burkina Faso                               Albert 0. Osel                        The World Bank
Resident Representative               Inmeuble BICIA (3erne etage)
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
(mailing address: B.P. 622)
Burunal                                   Jacqueline R. OXrnon                   The World Bank
Resident Representative               Avenue du 18 Septernbre
Bujumbura, Burundi
-  (mailing address: B.P. 2637)
Camneroor.                                Joseph K Ingram                        The World Bank
Resident Representaive                Irneuble Kennedy
Avenue Kennedy
Yaounde, Cameroon
(mailing address: B.P. 1128)
Central African Republic                   Luclen E. Moreau                      Banque Mondiale
Resident Representative               Rue des Missions
Bangui, CAR.
(mailing address: B.P. 819)
Chad                                       (vacant)                              The World Bank
Resident Representative               P.O. Box 146
N'djamena, Chad



Appendix 4       223
China                                     Pieter Boltelier                     The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission              No. 2 Fu Cheng Lu
Dlaoyulal, State Guest House
Building No. 5
Beijing 100830, China
(mailing address P.O. Box 82
Colombia                                  Kris3in Hallberg                      Banco Mundial
Resident Representtive               Caerem 10. No. 86-21, Piso 3
Aparlado Aerea 10229
Bogol, D.E., Colombia
(mailing address: Aputado Airen 10229)
Congo                                     (vacant)                              Banque Mondiale
Resident RepresentaiAve             kInee Arc (5&me itage)
Avenue Arnilcar Cabrai
Brazzaville, Congo
(mailing address B.P. 14536)
Ecuador                                   John Panzer                           Banco Mundial
Resident Representative              Calle Juan Leon Mma 130 y Ave. Patria
Edifico Corpoartian Financiera NaciWal
Eta Pris
auita, Ecuador
Egypt                                     Sven Bunnester                        The World Bank
Resident Repesnaive                  World Trade Ctffer
1191 Comiche El-Nil
15f Floor
Cairo, Egypt
Ethiopia                                  Abhay Deshpande                      The World Bank
Resident Representative              Africa Avenue
Bole
Add-s Ababa, Ethiopia
(mailing addess P.O. Box 5515)
Ghana                                     Ravi Kmnbur                          The World Bank
Resident Reprsnatgve                 69 Eighih Avenue Extension
Northridge Residential Area
Accrae Ghara
(mailing address P.O. Box   7)
Guinea                                    Eduardo Locatelli                     Banque Mondiate
Resident Repretae                    Immnwble de lrArdSche
Face taie des Anges
Conakry, Guinea
(mailing address BP 1420)
Guinea-Bissau                             Yves J. Tencalla                     World Bank
Pesident Representative              Apartado 700
1041. Guinea-Bissau
Hungary                                   Andrw P. Rogerson                    World Bank
Resident Representative              Suba Taiue Center, 4th Roar
- Nagrnez Ulca 44
Budapest 1065. Hungeiy
India                                     Oktay Yenm                            The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission              70 Lodi Estate
New Delhi 110003, India
(nmiling address P.O. Box 416,
New Delhi 110001)
(connwed)



224      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank  rcontinuecO                                                            Appendix 4
June30, 1994
Indonesia                                 (vacant)                             The World Bank
Dietor. Resident Stall               Jalan Rasuna Said Kay. B-10. 3rd lIar
Kuningan, Jabat  12940,
Indonesia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 324?JKI)
Jamaica                                   Robert Ban Pulley                     World Bank
Resident Repstive                    Island Lle Center
6 SL Lucia Avenue
Suite 8, South
Kingston 5, Jamaim
Kazakhstan                                David Pearce                         The World Bank
Resident Represenie                  c/o Ministy of Ecnmy
115 Zheltkaon Sir.
Almaly 480091, Kaztan
Kyrgyz Republic                           (vacant?                              Bishke  Kyrgyz Republic
Resident Represenbtaive
Madagascar                                Michel Palein                         Banque Mondiale
Resident Repstaive                   1. Rue Palrice Lunumba
Antananarivo 101. Madagascar
(mailing address LP. 4140)
Malawi                                    Arif Zulfiqar                         The World Bank
Resident Reprsenttive                Development House
Capil City
Ulongwe 3, Maiawi
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30557)
Mali                                      Uncla McGinnis                       The World Bank
Resident Repsenbtave                 treuble SOGERIH
Avenue Moussa Trade
-uartier du Reuve
Bmnaw    Mali
(mailing address B.R 1864)
Mauritania                                Claude Delapierre                    The World Bank
Resdent Repre                        Villa No. 30, llot A
Quarier Socofim
Nouakchtt Mauritanria
(mailing address: BP. 667)
Mexdco                                    Exgene 0D McCarthy                    Baco Mundial
Resi-dent Repsntaive                 Plaza Nalin
lnsugenles Sur 1971
Nivel Paseo, Locales 71 y 72
CaL Guadalupe tnn
01020 MWxico. O.F.
Mozarnbique                               Roberto Chavez                        World Bank
Resident Represen                    Ave. Kenneth Kaunda, 1224
mapguto, Mozambique
(mailing address Cain Posbt 4053)
Nepal                                     Joseph Manickavasagam                The Wodd Bank
Resident Rep esenv                   Jyoti nan   anipath
Kathniarxdu, Nepal
(mailing address: PO. Box 798)



Apperdx 4   225
Nicaragua                               Ulrich Laier                         The World Bank
Resident Representative             Edlicio Miaga Moduo A-1
Plaza Espafla
Managua, Nicaragu CA
Niger                                   Abdul Haji                           Banque MUndiale
Resident Represene                  Rue des Dallols
Nnmq. Niger
(miuling addess BP. 12402)
Nigeria                                 Gerald F. Flood                      The Wodd Bank
Resdent Representate                1st Hoar, Plot PC-10
Engineering Close. oil Idowu Taylor Skeet
Victr Island
agos, Nigeria
(mailing address PD. Box 127)
Pakisan                                 Philippe Nouvel                      The World Bank
Chief. Resident Mission             20 A
islamahad, Pakistan
(nmailirg address PR0 Box 1025)
Philippines                             Thri  W. Allen                       The World Bank
Residert Reprsentative              Central Bank of the Philipoines
MuliStory Building. Room 200
RoPs Boulerd
Manil, PhuTippiries
Poland                                  Paul Knotler                         The World Bank
Resident Repntative                 INTRACO I Bulding
17th Roor
2 Stawk Street
00-193 Warsaw, Poland
Romania                                 Antau Htamn                          Tie Wodd Bank
Resident Representalive             Boulevard Dadia 83
Sector 2
Buchra   Roamnia
Russia                                  Everdus Stoultiesdijk                The Wold Bank
Resident Reptatie                   Moscow Ofice
Sad---Kuddnska No. 3
Moscow 123242
Russian Federaion
Rwanda                                  Julio Gamba                          The World Bank
Resident Representative             Blvd. de la RNolution
SORAS Building
Kigali, Rnoda
(rmiling address P.O. Box 609)
Saudi Arabia                            Mohsin Alikhan                       The World Bank Resident Mission
Resident Representative             UNDP Building. King Faisel Street
Riyadh. Saudi Arabia 11432
(rmailing dress P.O. Box 5900)
Senegal                                 (vacn                                The World Bank
Resident Represenbtave              Inmeuble S.DhtH
3 Place de 'lndepemdance
Dakar, Senegal
(mailing address B.P. 3296)
rofnuo



Offices of the World Bank  (.m,.,)                                                              Appendix 4
June 30, 1992
South Africa                            Isac Sam                              World Bark
Resident Representative              Grenor Cte, Fist Rom
Hyde PaTk Lam
Hyde Park 2196
Jotannesburg, South Atica
Sri Lanka                                J. Robero B. Benterodt               The Wodd Bank
Resident Wemafn                     Developnent Fnan   Corporaion of CEylon
(DFCC) Building. 1st Roar
7305 Gagle Road
Colombo 3. Sr Lanka
(naiTmg address P.O. Box 1761)
Tamania                                  Motoo Kniin                          The Wadd Bank
Resident Rerseante                  NLC Building Mh Floor. B)
Dar-es-Sr  Tanania
(maing address P.O. Box 2054)
Togo                                     Jacqus DaniEl                        The World Bank
Resident Represenmfe                169 boulevard dui 13 Jaunier
-nimeuble BTCI OB i tage)
Lorno, Togo
(mmalling addres BP. 3915)
Turry                                    Fredeick Thomas Tenple               The Wodd Bank
Chief, Resident  ission             Aaturk Buivari, No. 211
-a.-Cuis Buiding Kat 6
0683 K Wditei
nka   Turkey
Uganda                                   Bian Falconer                       The Wodd Bank
Resident Represente                  P.O Box 4463
Kamfpla, Uganda
Uraine                                   Daniel Kamann                       World Bank
ChieK Regional Mission              26. Shovko        St
(Et K liblmdt St.)
Suites Two and Three
KIev 252D24. Ukraine
Uzbeldstan                               Paw  Hasan                          43. Academician Suleirnanva SL
Regional Repesetatie                Tashlert Uzbelistan
Venezuela                                Bmce . Carison                       Banco Mundia
Resdent Reprntate                   Edi    Paque Crisal
Terre Oesle, Piso 15
Oricina 15-OS
AvWeida raisco de Miranda
Los Palos Gmndes
cas, Venezuela
Viet Narn                               (vacant)                              World Bank
Resident Representie                Suile 301302, 4th loior
Bonh Minh HotEl
27 Ly Thai To SL
HIlan Kean Distmict
Hanoi, Viet am
Zaire                                   (vacart)                              Wodd Bank Liaison Olfice
Liaison Olfice                     dcao UNDP
P.O. Box 7248
Kinsh, Zaire



AppendIx 4        227
Zambia                                    6    redion a Nkauo                  The Wodd Dank
Resident Represet                    Red CrsHouse  2nd Floor
Long Acres
Lusaka Zambia
(mailing address P.O. Box 35410)
Zimbabwe                                  Chrislian . Poorin                   The Warld Bank
Resident Representte                 CABS Cenhe (lil FlRor)
Jasn Moyo Ave
(mailing addres: P.O. Box 2950)
a To be su led by Amad Guirard as oJ ulyt. 1994.
b. To be  id    by P[ene LaNi-Mlis as of July 1.1994.
c Culrl N Vdiltlaugby. CMt as ofly 1. 1994.
d. To be s   ede  by Javad KlrfladehSiTu  as of Jlyt. 1994.
c Dini NI de Tray. Chie as o July II. 1994
Miel Rt Rabn, Cie as   Sqmer S. 199
g. B       0. Babsort Chb as at dy t1994.



228     IBRD/IDA Apperdces
IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending                                                                 Appendix 5
Operations, by Major Purpose
and Region
June 30, 1994
(milfions of US dollae)
- IBR Os to to   Ws. by reo
East                 Europe     Latn       Middle
Asia                  and      Ameibk    East rd
and       South      Cental    and the     NorWh
PuW Ase                                   fica     PaEr        Asia       Asia     Cuban        Aica        Total
AgricutLre
Agnculbure sector lon.               1,3057    3,423.6    1,39&0    2.878.1    9,34.9    2251.4    21391.7
Agroindusy .     ...................    30.0      620.2       81.4      894.1    1,ZZ8.4      2242       3,0583
Fishies .-   92.7  14.0  7.0  162  41.0  170.9
F orestr-.   372.0  7X0                                        -    4089   155.0  1905   1204.
Irrigation and drainage ............   1102     4205.7       814.6    1,421.4    2.9895      1,661.4    12,202.8
Liestack .....................         170.7       80.       24il0      179.5    1,042.0       465       1,766.7
Other-gricultwe ...............        297.0       85.1      190.0      847.0      225.5      2245       1,889.1
Perennl crops .                        6345     1,595.4        -         S.       123.0       58.0      2,460.9
Resarch andi  erension.                1542       423.4       25.0      209.9      735.0       77.5      1,625.0
Total .3,574.3   10,i04.1   2751.0    6,895.    16,149.5    4,775.0    44,749.8
Education .542.5    4,2629                                       55.0    1,105.3    4,162.8    1,719.2    11,847.7
Energy    .
Oil, gas, and coal .4002                        1,5229    3,710.0    3,069.5    1,413.5       7712      10,87.3
Power .........1.8721 1   11.480.2    9,334.6    4.4132   11.510.7    Z053.8    40.764.6
Total ..                           2,272.3 13.003.1   13.044.6    7,482.7   13.024.2    2.8250        51,651.9
Environment .-    331.5                                           -         9Q0   429.5    6.0   859.0
Flanclal sector .1,299.0    5,179.0                             02       403    10,123.1    2,68M          26396.4
Industr.                                 557.i    3,317.2    2.919.9    3,760.7    4,237.6    1,700.7    16,653.7
Mining nd other extractlve               541.1      484.1       793.5        -      1.043.3      2642       3,1262
Mufltsec?or .............2,1.6Z6    4.042.3                     610.0     ,8242:   7,0512      2,112.3     2,02.6
Popublaon, heath, and
nutition ....................4 289                757.9       31.3      446.0    1,772.8      421.6      3,729.0
Pubic sector management  ....             152       147.0       150.0      890.2    2,397.6      172.9      3,572.9
Sioclal sectr .................             -          -          -          -        158.0        -         15&0
Telecommunicautons ..........             5102     1,5347       712.5      545.3      5303       691.5      4,5245
Transportaton
Aviaio ......................           59.0        92         5.6       19.0      218.5         -         311.3
Highways .....................    1,817.8    6,393.          7389    2,7022    7,6085        1,356.1    20,617.4
merW-ransportation .4.5                             -          -    295.0   17.8   30.0   347.3
Pods and waenays .............         285.9    1,555        4372       625.8      523.7      967.0      4,398.1
Railways ......................        733.5    2,910.8    1,500.4    1,093.0    1,9385       237.5      8,473.7
Transportation sector loan .........    61.6      677.2      184.0      137.0      301.8         -       1,361.6
Urban transport .................        -        34Z0        25.0       40.0    1,555.5       116.0     20715
Total ...................... . 2923    11,951.6    2891.1    4912.0   12,164.3    Z706.6    37,587.9
Urban development   ...........          9337    2915.3         294.1      7672     4.119.6    1,525.1    10555.0
Water supply and sewerage ...    1.169.8    1, 4                103.0    1,30.8    4,5392    2.237.5    11,183.7
Grand toa..          .          165,400    60.373.1    272   39.029.6   81,9530   23.84.4   249,398.3
a. BEcerttorlte toW anout shown in fobotne d. no maCot is   of d canceflim sake f te oadginal maffnihet. 3BF1D loans to fte IFC are erclted.
b. Operaos thve been dasseb th bye major purpose t  fanra MaN yajn  clude at* in more tlan one sec  or su tr.



Appendix 5    229
IDA credits to boDrun  by region
East                      Europe        LaNn         liddle
Asia                       and         Ainedr       East and               -       IBR0
an           Sout         central     and ton        North                         NWd
Aldca          Padlic         Asia         Asia       Caidbban       Afria         Total          IDA
3,352.5      2,476.7        3,152.8        22.4        280.4        309.3         9,594.1       30,985.8
364.5        211.0          716.9         -           16.5          45.0        1,360.9         4,419.2
55.7         70.0          217.3         -             -           67.3          410.3          5B1.2
391.0        728.9          828.9         -           38.9           -          1,987.7         3,1921
871.0       1,221.1       6,164.9        80.0         18.5         396.5        8,7520         19,954.8
479.7         58.1          267.1        20.5         67.5           5.0         927.9         2694.6
338.9        424.5          405.0         -            -             56         1,175.3         3.044A
4889         300.5          283.0        15.0          3.2           -          1,000.6         3,551.5
713.0        120.5          767.8         -           21.0          20.4        1,642.7         3267.7
7,0552       5,6483        12B03.7       137.9         446.0        350.4        26,941.5       71,691.3
3,049.6      1,421.9        2,495.3         9.6        176.9        391.5         7,544.8       19,392.5
6383          66.0          371.4         -          1482          86.0        1,309.9        12,197.2
1,572.1        308.8        3,745.5       25.7         201.7        2529          6,1067        46,871.3
Z210.4         374.8        4,116.9        25.7        349.9        338.9         7,416.6       59,068.5
Z6          50.0           14.7         -            4.8           -             72.1          931.1
Z382-5         302.8         829.0         35.0        155.1         74.8         3,779.2       30,175.6
987.5        137.2        1,616.5         -           27.5          97.9        2,866.6        19,520.3
74.2         16.0           19.0         -           49.5           -            151.7         3,284.9
5,425.5        217.7        3,999.7       141.1        499.5         35.0        10,318.5       33,121.1
1,2352         597.9        2,549.6         -          185.0        303.5        4,871.3         8,600.3
801.8        145.7          171.8        64.0        115.1          13.7        1,312.1         4,885.0
-            9.7            -          10.9          -             -            20.6           178.6
441.2        101.8          8Z2          18.0          -            83.0        1,52652         6,050.7
14.0          -             10.0         -            -             -            24.0           335-3
3,651.7        778.7        1,26.4                     33E.3        1802           ,223.3       26,840.7
8.5         320           267.2        18.0           -            -            325.7          673.0
423.2        1512           262.0         -           16.0           92          871.6          526.7
628.6        206.7        1,017.5         -           45.0          38.5        1,936.3        10,410.0
624.1         17.8           47.5       -              -            30.0          719.4         Z,081.0
-           60.0          176.0         -            -             7.0         243.0          2,321.5
5,360.1      1,Z56A         3,044.6        18O         399.3        264.9        10,343.3       47,931 2
1,274.9        432.4        1,5923         453         1742-         66.0        3585.1         14,141
1,0042         494.2        1,847.5       11.6          91.1        203.2        3,651.9        14,835.6
31,304.9     11,206.8       35,982.9       517.1      2,673.9       2722.9        84.4085       333,80&80
c. Indudes $497 million in Ewopean recnsncion loans rnte bore 1952
d Cancellations amownt tD S23U57.3 milion for the IBRD and $4.7555 milion for lDA, loWing 528221i5 million.



230     IBRI)IDA. Appendices
IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending                                                               Appendix 6
Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor
June 30, 1994
(millons or US dl0es)
IBD I=n                    IDA uefts                      Total
Borrower or guranbr                  Number        Amoun         Number        Amrount       Nunbe         Amount
Afghanistan .. ..............         -               -            20           230.1          20           230.1
Africa region ...............           1            15.0           1           455             2            605
Albania .................-                            -            10           132.6          10           1326
Algeria .................              54         4,5605           -              -            54          4,560.5
Angola ..................-                    -                     8           248.9           8           24&8
Argentina .................            58         8,741.8          -              -            58          8,741.8
Amenia ..................               1            12.0           1            210- 2                      40.
Australia ..................            7           417.7                 -                     7           417.7
Austria .................               9           106.4          -              -             9           106.4
Batwams. The ..........                 5           4.B          -               -             5            42.8
Bangladesh ................             1            46.1         141         6,729.9         142          6,776.
Barbados ...............        .      11           1032           -              -            11           1032
Belarus .................               3           1702           -              -             3           1702
Belgium ..4                                          7-..    .                                  4            76.0
Bee .................                   6            533           -              -             6            533
Benin ..........     .......          -               -            40          534.3           40           5343
Bhutan .................              -               -             6           282             6            28.2
Bolivia ........                       14           299.3          40           948.1          54          1,247.4
Bolswna .................              20           28D.7           6            15.           26           2965
Brazil                    ....                   21,689.7         -               -           206         21,6897
Bulgia ....                             7   593.0   -                             -    7   593.
Buridnafaso .-------.-----            -               1.9          44           7463           44           7482
BRunndi ..--------------tI                            4.B          44           658.1          45           6629
Camboda               .-                              -             1           62.7            1            62.7
Carneron .................             44         1294.4           17           429.0          61          1,723.4
Cape Vere .                           -               -             7           44.9            7            44.9
Canbbn region .........                 4            83.0           2           43.0            6           126.0
Cenrl African Republic .......         -              -            23           386.9          23           386.9
Chad .                                -               -            29    444.1    29    444.1
Chile .------                          54   3255.4                 -             19.0    54   3,274.4
China .................                82        11.759.4          59         7.795J          141         19,5551
Colombia .................            137         8,047.6          -             195         137          8,067.1
Comroms. .................            -               -            12            73.2          12            732
Congo .......                          10           2167            9           174.6          19           391.3
Cost aica .................            38           8.             -              5.5          38           894.4
C6t foit e ...............d'           62         2,887.9           7           5222           69          3,410.1
Croaia ..............1                              128.0          -              -             1           12&0
Cyprus .................               30           418.           -              -- 30                     418.8
Czeh Republic ......... .               2           326.0          -              -             2           326.0
Czechoslovakia ..............           1          450.0          -               -             1           450.0
Denniak .................               3            85.0          -              -             3            85.0
OjbW .     .   -   -   8   51.6   8   51.5
Domimnica..                           -               -             3           11.0            3            11.0
Dominican Republic                     21           566.9           3           22.0           24           5819
Eastlrican Commurity .......           10           244.8         -               -            10           244.8
EernAAficaregion .........            -               -             1           45.0            1            45.0
Euador ..............                  54         1,912.9           5           36.9           59    -     1,949.8
Egypt .................                56         3,955.8          31         1,376.5          87          5,332.3
ElSalvador . ...             -         25           485.6           2           256            27           5112
Eqorial Guinea ............           -               -             9           45.0            9            45.0
Estoni.                                3    80.4   -    -    3    80.4
Ethiopia .................             12          106             52         1,860.6          64          1,969.2



Appendix 6    231
-IBRD lmo                  IDA Crets                      Traw
Boowe or -gua. -                     Ntsbter        Anolt        Ntntr          Amount        Number        Amaift
Fi-i ................ .                13           152.9          -               -            13            152.9
Finnd .................                18           316.8          -               -            1             316.8
Fr a n            ce ................ .  1          250.0                          -             1           250.0
G abon 1.................               1           2068           -               -            11           206.8
Gamb         ia,Thh ...............    -              -             23           1602           23            1602
Ghana ..................                9           207.0           73         24992            82          2.702
G ree e .................              17           490.8         .-               -            17           490.8
Grea         nda          ... .    -                  -              1            5.0            1             5.0
Guawtna. ..... ......                  23           72.1l          -               -            23           725.1
G u'n                eaa ..................- 3       752            41           854.5          44           929.7
Guirn-Bssau ..............             -              -             18          186.9           1B            186.9
Guyyaa ------------------              12           80             12          247.8           24           3.8
Hai ..................                  1             2fi           31          453.0           32           4556
H Londs. ................              33           717.3           13          431R5           46          1.15.8
Hgun pBy ... ..                        32    3,634.9               -               -            32    3,634.9
oean .................                 10            47-1          -               -            10            47.1
india ..................         t      3        21.838.2          202        2184.1           355         43,1223
Indonesia ... ............            188        20,4117            46          931.8          234         212435
Iranr slamic Republic of .......       39         2 1              -               -            39          2,05.1
lIrq ..........     ........            6           1562           -               -             6            1562
Irelnd ...................              8           1525           -               -             8            152.5
Isrl ..........        ...             11           284.5          -               -            11           284.5
It*l  ..........       .....            8           399.6          a-              -             8           399.6
anica ............. ..                 58          122M1           -               --           5L         1i28.1
am  ...................                31           862.9          -               -            31            86z9
Jordan ...................             37          1.198.4          15            853           52          1.283.7
Kamlisan ...............                4           273.7          -               -             4           273.7
KMnya . .... ........-                 46   1200.0    62   22022   108   3,402.2
Kora Republic of ...        .         107         8,324.0            6          110.           113          8,434.8
KyryaRepubrc .                         -              -             3           138.0            3           13&0
Lao PeoplE's Demnocr-ic
Republic ...............-                           -            20           383.6           20           383.6
Lada ..          ..........             2            70.           -              -              2            70.0
Leanon .................                7           368.7          -               -             7           3687
Lesoio ................                 1           110.0          23           2242            24           3342
Lberia .. - 21                                      156.0           14           114.5          35          -270.5
Lithuana .................              2            86.4          -               -             2            81.4
Lumbourg ................               1            12.0                          -             1            12.0
Macedona FYRof ...........              1            40.0          -             40.0            1            80.0
Madagar ...............                 5            32.9           59         1,191.5          64          1224A
Malw .     .         .........          9           124.1           55         1269.8           64          1,393.9
Malaysia ...     .                     83         3.446.6          -               -            83          3.446.6
Maldives .................             -              -              5           33.9            5            33.9
Mali     .         ..........          -              1.9           49          912.0           49           913.9
Malta .................                 1             7.5          -               -             1             7.5
Mauritnia .................             3           146.0            1          3208            34           466.8
Mauritius .................            27           354.2            4           202            31           374.4
Mexdci .................146                      23.418.6          -               -           146         23.41&6
Moldo'2 .................2                           86.0          -               -             2            8r.0
.                                                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(ofied



232     IORDJIDAA pendces
IBRD and IDA Cumulalive Lending                                                               Appendix 6
Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor (=u.L8
June 30,1994
(mtinion of US dolar)
IBD lbams                   IDA credits                   Tobl
Bofwam or isfM                       Nwnwbf         murtd        Mbter         Anmwd         rain          Atnnt
Mongolia ..............               -               -            4   BED                      4            85D
Moroco .................              104         7,059.7          3            508           107          7,140.5
Mozunbique ----------------            -              -           27          1.4013           27          1,401.3
Myanner .................               3            33.4         30      3      D4.0          33           837.4
Nepal ...                              -              -            64    1.394.1               64          1.394.1
Netherds .................              8           244.0         -               -             8           244.0
New Zealand ...... .........            6           1268          -               -             6           126.8
Nwiaragua ...... ...........           27           233.6          9           340A.4          36           574.0
Niger .................                -              -           37            5s2.5          37          5s
Nigeria .. ...............             84         6.2482          14           9029            9B         7,151.1
Norway .................                6           145.0         -               -             6           145.0
Cman .................                 11           157.1         -               -            11           157.1
Padstan .--                            78   5,1612    95   4,4206    173   9.5832
Panara .................               33           8763          -               -            33           au63
Papua New Guinea.27                                54ZD            9           113.2-
Paraguay .-                            31   625.1                  6            455    37    671.6
Peru ................       .69                   3.437.?         -               -            69         3.437.7
Philippines.                          133         9,050.9          5           2942           138         9     l1
Poland .................               19         3,657.0         -               -            19         3,657.0
Porugal................                32         1,338.          -               -            32          1,33=8
Rmnia ................                 41         3,534.          -               -            41         3,5349
Russia ................                10         2.890.0         -               -            10        2890.D
R a -a-da.----------        -         -               -           44           644.4           44           644.4
STionom6andcPrindpe ........                          -             8                           8            58.9
Seea .................                 19           164.9          54         1,0522           73          1j217J
Seychelles .................            2            10.7                 -                     2            10.7
Senra Leone .--------.-                 4            18.7          18           3120           22           330.7
Singapore                 ....          4    181.3    -                           -            14   181.3
Slovak Republic .............           2           135.0         -               -             2           135.0
Slovenia ..................                          80.0         -               -             1            80.0
Solomon lands ............             -              -             6            33.9           6            33.9
Somalia.                               -              -           39            492.1    39                 492.1
Soulica .                              11  241.8   -                              -    11   241.8
Spain ................                 12           478.7         -                            12           47U
Sd rikI .....                          12           210.7          61         1,0620           73          2,072
S  Is and Nevis    ...........          1             1.5         -               15            1             3&0
SL Lua .1   2.5  -    52   1   7.7
Sb Vincnt andthe Gednes                 1             1.4           1             6.4           2             7.8
Sudan .................                 8           1660           48         1,35MI9          56          1,518.9
Sailand .................              11            75.8           2             7.8          13            83.6
Syia .                                 17           6132            3            47.3    20                 660.5
Tanzania .................             18           318.2          81         2.6915           99          3.009.7
Thalarnd .................            100         4,734.1           6           125.1         106          4.,592
Togo .................                  1            20.0          35           535.7          36           555.7
Tongs ..................-                     -                     2             5.0           2             5.0
Tdinidadand Tobag ..........o          17           2165          -               -            17           216.5
Tunisia .................              93         3,394.7           5            74.6          98          3,469.3
Turkey .................              112        12,057.9          10           1785          122         12236.4
Uganda .................                1             8.4          54         2Z116.9          55          2,1253



AppendIx 6-   233
IBRD loars                  IDA Credits                    TOW
Bwone  or gwsolor                    Nwgber         Amount        Ntinb         Amard         Nube           Amoun
Uhaie ....... ....... ..                 1           27n -0                                       1            27.0
Ur      u g uay ...................     38         1,231.6          -              -             38          1.231.6
Uzbdsan ......-       .....               1          21.0           -              -              1            21.0
Vanuatu ...................             -              -              4           15.4            4            15.4
Venezuela .................             29         2,984.7           -             -             29          2,984.7
VietlNam                                -              -              4          384.5             4          384.5
Westem Afri  region  --------             1            6.1            3           52.5            4            5B.6
Westem Samoa .............              -              -              8           46.6             8           45.6
Yemnen ....................             -              -             99         1,0814           99         11.01A
Yugoslavia .................9 0                    6,114.7           -             -             90          6.114.7
Zi!re ....                               7           330.0           59    1.1515                66          1481.5
Zamdia .. ................              28           6791            31         1,234.5          59          1,913.6
imbabwe .-----------------24                         893.2            6          443.4           30          1,426.6
the ....................                14          329.4             4           15.3           18           344.7
Toal ....................             3660       249,3913          2.445       84.408.5        6105        333.8O6.8
-zem
Nut: Joint IBADRDA operatons ae oued owny once. as ERD  eralms When more dn one It is madt for a tingle pmiecth Ie opsanion is mowled
ol one. Detils may not aud to loWs bse ol rowidt
a. Repre IRD lois and IDA cSdis tade at a bme when tie aaes o Taiwn eprefld  iM in Te Worad Buk (ptior to May 15. 198.



234     IBID AAppedices
Statement of IBRD Loans Approved                                                                  Appendix 7
during Fiscal Year 1994
Pdn;Wl
Borrwer or gtlorlhopmje rname                                  Date of approvl         Matarllies        (US$ nilliors)
Algeria
Water Supply and Swage Reabilittion Projed ......J...            02Jun-94             1999/2011             110O
Emergency Desert Locust Control ProjecL ...............          23-Oec-93            1999/2011              30.0
ArgenUna
Capital Market Development Project ......... ..........          01-Mar-94            20012009              50O.
Capital Maket Developnent Technical Assstace Pro0- ....M 0-ar-94                      1999/2009               8.5
Materal and Child Hmalh and Nutrition Project ...........        03-Aug-93            1999/2008             10an
Barbafts-
Human Resources Project .............01-Jul-3............        Oi                   19982D005               7.8
Bebnrus
Foresby Deelopment Project ............    ...........           26M  -94             1999/2009              41-9
Rehabilitation Loan ........                                     16-Nov-93            199912008             120.0
Institution Building Project ..............-...........          29Jul-93             19992006                83
BelIze
Beia City Infstructure Proiect ..........  ...........           30-Nov-93            1998m11                20.0
Brazil
Third Northeast Basic Education Project .........                23-Nov-93            1999/008              206
AIDS and STD ControlPm t .......................Pj.0 9-Nov-93                         19990200              160.0
Brazil (Guarantor)
Basic Education Qwlily Projt-State of Parnd ..........           28-Jun-94            2009)                 96.0
Water and Coastl Pollution Managenent
Project-State ol Espfrito Santo .........28-Jun-94 ..2002009                                             154.0
Beic Education Quality Improvement Projec-State ol Minas
Geraiss .17......................  ................                                1999/009              150.0
Stae Highway Managemt It Project-
Ste ol Fui ................................                   1     r-94           199912009              54.0
State Highway Management II Project--
State of Tocanlins ........................                   15-Mar-94            1999/009               87.0
State Highway Manageaent It Project-
State of Maanho .............................                 15-Mar-94            199909                 79.0
Municipal Marnag   t and EiMmrnmental
Infrastructure Project-State of Minas Gerais                  2-...........  20Jul-93  19990             150.0
Bulgaria
Agricultra Deelopment Project ....................-.29-Jun-94                         199912011              50.0
Water Companies Restructuring and
Modernization Project .................. .........            26-May-94            199912011              98D
Caribbean Development Bank (Guarantor)
Six  Caribbean Deelopment Bank Project .......  .......          29-Jun-94            1999R011               20.0
Chile
Municipal Devopment Pilot PMrect .................               07-Dec-93            1999/2011              10.0
China
Natonal Highway Project ..................0J........                 un-94            200012014             380.0
Xlolangdi Multipurpose Projed  ..........  ...........           14-Apr-94            20022014              460.0
Yang0ou Thermal Power Project .........22-Mar-94                                      1999/2014             350.0
Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Pject ........          17-Mar-94            1999/201 4            255.0
Shnghai Environn Project .......................                 08-Mar-94            1999/2014             160.0
Telecommuiications Prolect ........................              21-Dec-93            199912014             250.0
Fijian Provincal Highway Project .....................           14-Dec-93            199912014             140.0



Appendix 7       235
Prindcpal
amoint
Boirnwer or guarart/proe name                                    Dali d approval        MaIrIlus         -USS mlillonsw
China (continued)
Second Shanghai MehqopoiLta Trnsportation Project .               14-Oct-93            1999R014               150.0
Colombia
Natural Resource Management Program  ................             23-Dec-93            1999/2U13              39.0
Secondary Education Project ........................              16.-Dec-93           1999l2014              90.0
Public Fnancial Management Proj jt 07-Oect3..........             07-Dec-93            199912014              30.0
Costa Rica
Health Sector Rulorm Social Security
System Proo                 j    e      c ..............................  21-Ot-93   199/2011               22.0
Croatia
Emergency Reonstrucion Project.                                   21-Jun-94            1998/2011              12&0
Czech Republic (Guarantor)
Telecomrnunications Pmiect ........................               09-Sep-93            19992003                80.0
Ecuador
Irrigation Subsector Technical Assistance Program 10-May          10-May-94            19992014               20.0
Third Social Deelotnent Project-.
Social Investment Fund. .22-hb-9                                22-Feb-94            1999/2013              30.0
Mining Developnent and Environmnl Conlrol
Technical Assistn   Proieclt .2Oct.-3 ..                                             1999/2013              14.C
Egypt (Guarantor)
Agdicultural Modernizalion Project .....................          24-Mar-94            1999/2014               54.0
El Salvador
Technical Assistance Project .14-Sep-93                                                1999/2013        -        5
Second Strutural Adjusment Ln. .14-Sep-93                                              1999/2013               50.0
Estonia
District Healing Rehabilitation Project .26-May-94                                     2000/2009              314
Highway hMintenance Project .12-May-94                                                 1999/2009               12.0
Gabon
Economic Recovery Loan..                                          21un-94              1999Y2009               30.0
Hungary
Tax Administration Modernization Project.08-Jul-93                                     199812000              29.0
Hungary (Guarantor)
Energy and Environrment Project.                                  17-Feb-94            19992009               100.0
India (Guarantor)
Container Transport Logstics Project ..................           09-Jun-94            2000/2014              94.0
Indonesia
Sumatera and Kalirmntan Power Project .21-un-94                                        2000/2014              260.5
Java Irrigation Improvement and Water
Resources Management Project.                                  21-Jun-94             2000/2014             165.7
Uniersity Research br Graduale
Education Project .14-Jun-94                                                         2000/2014              58.9
Integrated Swamps Development Project .14-Jun-94                                       200012014              65.0
(conhinued)



236      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Statement of IBRD Loans Approved                                                                    ApendIx 7
during Fiscal Year 1994  (confn
Principal
Borroe  r guarantorfPlrui naon                                   Dale al approval       Maturiile         (US5 mililes
Indonesia (continued)
Seamrang-Surakarta Urban
Deelopment Project ...................        ......            07-Jun-94            20D012014             174.0
Dam Salely Project      .........         I..    ........         31-May-94            1909/2014               55.0
Filth Kabupaten Roads Project ............     ...                17-May-94            2000/2014              101.5
Surabaya Urban Development Project ........    .........          12-Apr-94            1999/2014              175.0
Skills Development Project ............... ..........             25-Mar94             199912014               27.7
Second Highway Sector Investment Project ...                      10-Mar-94            1999/2014              350.0
National Watershed Management and Conservailon
Project ..................................09-Nov-93                                  1999/2013              56.5
Jamaica
Tax Administration Reform Poect ......................            16-Jun-94            2000/2011               13.2
Private Investment and Export Development Project ........        25-Mar-94            1999Q011                35.0
Jordan
Energy Sector Adjustment Loan ...                                 07-Oct-93            1999/2013               80.0
jordan (Guarantor)
Telecommunications Project ..............                         26-May-94            1999/2014               20.0
Kazakhatan
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project .................          02-Jun-94            1999R011                15.7
Urban Transpor Project .................. .........               074pr-94             1999/2011               40.0
Rehabilitation Loan ....................... I .......             16-Se-93             1999/2.010             100.0
Technical Assistance Project ...............03-Aug-93                                  1999/2010               38.0
Korea, Republic of
Science and Technical Education Project ................          06-Jan-94            1     499/2009         190.0
Environmental Technology Development
Project ..         .          ..                                06-Jan-94            1999ROOB                90D
Financial Intermediation Proiec ........... ...........           23-Dec-93            1999/2009              100.0
Latvla
Agrcultural Development Project ......................            11-Jan-94            199812011               25.0
Lebanon
Irigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project .........     29-Jun-94            200012011               572
Revenue Enhancement and Fiscal MHnagement
Technical Assistance Project ...........  ...........           29-Jun-94            19992011                19.9
Uthuania
Powr Rehabilitation Project .............  ...........            24May-94             1998/2011               26.4
Macedonla, FYR of
Economic Recovery Loan .......08-..      ..                       08-Feb-94            1999/2014               40.0
Malaysia
Health Development Project            ..............              14-Dec-93            1999/2011               50.0
Second Rubber Industry Smailholders Development
Authority {RISDA) Project .............  ...........            25-Jan-94            199942009               70.0
Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness
Project ..................................                      244-y-94             2000/2009                7.7



Appendix 7    237
Prindpl
amidl
Borom ar guaror$roject nime                                   D  of apprew           Mabbit           (IUSS rillbns
Mexdco (Guarantor)
Norhern Border Environment Project                              09-Jun-94           200012009             368.0
Secnd Waer Supply and Sanitation SectorPom....                  09-Jun-94           1999/2W9              350.0
Second Solid Waste M gement Project .09-un-94                                       1999R009              200.0
Second Prirmay Education Proect.                                31-Mar-94           199909                412.0
On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks
Improwement Project .17-Feb-94                                                    1997/200B            200.0
Moldova
Rehabilitation Loan .21-ct-93                                                       1999t2013              60.0
Morocco
Second Agricultural Sector Investment Lon .23-Jun-94                                20002014              121.0
Irrigated Area, Agricultural Services Projet .21-Dec-93                             1999/2014              25.0
Filth WaW Supply Project .23-Nov-93                                                 1999/2014             128.0
Environmental Management rject. .14-Sep-93                                          1999/2013               6.0
Morocco (Guarantor)
Filth Water Supply Project (ONEP) ......... ..........          23-Nov-93           19992014               32.0
Natona] Rural Finance Project .23-Nov-93                                            1999/2013             100.0
Pakistan
Power Sector Development Projct .23-Jun-94                                          1999l2014             230.0
Public Sector Adjustment Loan .                                 14-Sep-93           199902013             150.0
Panama
Roads Rehabilitation ProWct.                                    21-Dec-93           19992011               60.0
Papua New Guinea
Petroleum Exploraion and Development
Techfrical Assistance Project .09-Dec-93                                          199912013              11.0
Paraguay
atural Reseuices Management Project .22-Feb-94                                      1999/2013              50.0
EFgit Highway Project .21-Dec-93                                                    199013                 65.0
Peru
Transport Rehabilitation Project .17-Mar-94                                         1999J2014             150.0
Basic Health and NutritiOn Project ....................         0Feb-94             1999R2014              34.0
Social lavelopment and Compensation Fund
(FONCODES) Project.                                          16-Dec-93             19912013             100.0
Philippines o.Guarantor)
Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project-
MNtional Power Corporation (NPC) .07-un-94                                        199912014            113.0
Lyte-Luzon Geothermal Project-
Philippine National O; Company (PNOC) .07-Jun-94                                  1999/2014            114.0
Subic Bay Freepon Prot  .............Pj..........               02-Jun-94           2000/2014              40.0
Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Pmiect .03-Fb-94                                              1999)2013             211.0
Poland
Forest Development Support Pmiect .29-Jul-93                                        1999/2010             146.0
(coat/md



238      IMM/IDA Appendies
Statement of IBRD Loans Approved                                                                   Appendix 7
during Fiscal Year 1994 [conidue
anounl
Barower or guamnWtopject nme                                    Dae at appvrv  M;utlim                    (USS niions)
Romania
Industial Developrat Project ..................,..19-y-94                              20002014              175.0
Petmoleum Sector Rehabilitation Project .................05-Apr-94                     199912014             175.6
Education Reform Pmiect .............0-.............              0Apr-94              1999t2014              50.0
Russia
Second Oil RehabilitEaton Project ...................             29-Jun-94            1999/2011             500.0
Enterprise Support Prject .                                       21-Jun-94            200012011             2000
Land  elormi Implementation Support Prect ................        16-Jun-94            1999g211              80.0
Agriculture Reform Implementation Support Project ........        16-Jun-94            199912011             240.0
Financial Institutions Development Project ....... ........       19-May-94            1999/2011             200.0
Highway Rehabilitation and Maintence Project ..........           17-Feb-94           -1999/2011             300.0
Slovenia
Enterprise and Financil Sector Adjustnent Loan ..........         15-Jul-93            1999/2008                00
Slovak Republic
Economic Recovery iyar ...........................                30-Nov-93            19992011               80QO
Slovak Republic (Guarantor)
Telecommunications Project ...........   .............            15-Jul-93            199010                 55D
Tunisia
Northwest Mountainous Areas Dewelopment Project   ........        23-Dec-3             19992011               27.5
Agricultural Sector lnvent Loan ........    ...........           18-Nov-93            199921                120.0
Private Investment Crecrit Project ..................09-Dec-93                         1999/2011              500
Tunisia (Guarantos$
Private Investment Credit Project-Arab Tunisian .........
Bank (ATB) ...........................                       09-Dec-93            1998/2011               6.0
Private Investment Credit Project-Banque de
DJveloppemenI Economique de Tunisie ......  .......          09-Dec-93            1998R010               12.0
Private Investment Credit Project-Banque Intemnatiorale
Arabe de Tunrie (BIAT) ............    .............           09-Dec-93            199812011                8o
Private Investment Credit Projed-anque de Tunisie et des
Emirats d'invesfisserment (BTb .09-Dec-93                                           1999/2011               10.0
Private Investment Credit Project-Credit Fancier Commercial
de Tunisie (CFCT) ........                                   09-Dec-93            199612011               7.0
Private Invsent Credit Project-citt Thniso-Seoudienne
d'Investissemnt et de DEveloppemnent (STUSID) .......        09-Dec-93            1999/2011              10.0
Private Investment Credit Project-Tunisie Leasing (It).....       09-Dec-93            199B12011               6.0
Private Investment Credit Project-Union Bancaire pour le
Commnerce et l'Industrie (UBCI) .....................          09-Dec-93            199912l                  7.0
Private Investment Ciedit Projec-Union Tunisienne
de Leasing (UTL) .......0.............                         09-Dec-93            1998/2011                4.0
Turkey
Privatzation Implementation Assistnce and Social
Safety Net Project .03-M............................lay-.94                         1999/2011              100.0
Uruguay
Basic Education Ouality Improvement Project .03  ay-94                                 2000/2009              31.5
Natual Resources Manamn  t and Irrigation
Development Project .     2                                    25-Jan-94            1999/2009              41.0
Private Sector Deveopment Project .                              25-Jan-94             19992009               35.0
Uzbidstan
Instituion Buildinfgechnical Assistance Project .07-Oct-93                      .      1999)2013              21.0



Appendbk 7   239
anteu
Dnwuer or gu.toriproject nane                                            Date W appovi             Mahuitbs             (USS millions)
Venezuela
Basc Education Project ............................                      04-Nov-93               199     08                  89A
Urban Tarasport Pmiect .............0..............                          Nov-93               1999/208                   10D.0
Zimbabwe (Guarantor)
Third Power Project .. ...........................                        18Ja-94                 19992014                    90- D
TOtal ..........................                                                                                      14,243.9
NOTE: All loans apwpNed in rlIs 1994 are at variable inte rates.



240     IB/IDAApperndie
Statement of IDA Credits Approved                                                               Appendix 8
during Fiscal Year 1994
P-iciplws
(millions)
uss
Cotmlpiyoied mm                                             Date of atpprovl    Mabuitias      SDR        equivalut
Albania
School Anbilitaion and Cpadty Building Pmire   .....23J..    2un-94            204034          6f9           9.6
Dunes Water Supply Rebirtation Project ...... ........       10-May-94         20041034         8.4         11.6
Technical Asistance Proiect tar Socia Safey Net
Deveopment .................................               14-Sep-93         20042Q33        39            5
Labor Market Development Projt ........  ............        14-Sep-93         20041R3          3.9          4
Housing  miect .................................             08Jul-93          200333          10.6         15.0
Armenia
Eanhquke Rontuction Pmiect ...................               01-Feb-94         2004/208        20.1         28.0
Bangladesh
Second Road Rehabilitaion and Maintneace Project .......     28Jun-94          200404         103.9        141iB
Jule Sedor Adjusnent Credit ...........  ............        20My-94           20042034         2.4          3.3
Jute Sector Adjustment Credit .......................        17-F94             204034        175.0        247.0
Januna Bridge Prolect ....................... .               17-Feb-94        2004034        14316        200.0
Elznin
Rtral Vkter Supply and Sanitation Project ...............    07-Jur-94         2-0/134         L7.0          9
Third Education Project                                       17-M94           2004/0          132           10.1
Ccxnnmity-Based Food Securt Project-12-Apr-94                                  200420           7.1          9.7
Ecomic Management Project ......................             09-Nov-93         204              3.7          5.2
Bhutan
Tnird Foresry Development Project ------------------         06-Jul93          20042033         3.9          5.4
Bolivia
Municipal Sector Development Projec- ----------------        08-Feb-94         2 33            30.1         42.0
Structural Adjustment Credit  ...............-N.........     14an-94           2001031          6.7          94
Burklna Fas
PopWulaton and AIDS Control Project    ..... .............   31-Ma-94          2004/234        190          26.3
Health and Nition Project ..............     .......         31-Mar-94         2004t2034       212          292
Economic Recovery Credit ........... ..............          29-Mar-94         2004/2034       10.0         25.0
Cambodia
mergency Rehabilitation Pmiect ......... ............        25-Oct-93         2004/           45.2         62.7
Caneroon
Economic Recovery Credit ....1-.....................         16-Jun-94         202034          53.1         75.0
Structural Adjustment Credit ........... .............       22-Mar-94         2004/2034       37.1         51.0
Structural Adjustment Pmgram  .---------------               10-Mar-94         2D042034        363          50.0
Cape Verde
Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Proijt ......0..     -B94           2004D   3        5.7          8.1
Caribbean Development Bank
Sixt Caribbean Development Bank Project ........ ......      29-Jun-94         200434           7.8         11.0
Chad
Health and Sale Motherhood Project.                          14-Jun-94         2004/2034       13.1         18.5
Public Works and Capacity Building Projet .19-M 94                             20023           12.4         174
Econormic Recovery Credit .................... ..            29-Mar-94         20042034        14.4         20.0
China
Forest Resource Development and Pmtection Projet .......     07-Jun-94         200412029      141.7        200.0



Appendk 8   241
PdIncIlP anrst
-                  {m~~~~~~~~nllialns)
us$
Conrpmjet rue                                                Date of appmd        M*abtS         SOR        eqtulatet
China (N/ad)4
Loess Platea Watrsh   Rehabilitation Project         .         25-May-94         20D4/2029      10E.3         150.0
r.olan9li Resettdnt  P      r oj e.          ..                14-Apr-94         200412029       79.9         110
Songliao Plin Agricultural Development Pm oj ecL .             17-Feb94          2U4R029        1485          205.0
Secnd Red Soils Area Deelopment Pmrect ..03-Feb-94                               20W42029       10U.4         150.0
Rural Health Wours Developnt Pro         j cL ...............  03-Aug-93          00312028       79?3         110
Comroros, The
Sna! Eerprse Development Projmc .21-Jun-94                                       200234           3.7           5.1
Populatain and Hu    n     du Resource Proect..                144Dc-93          2004R2033        92           13.0
Congo
Enaic RecoveryCedi ..........................Cr.               28-Jun-94         204)029         700          100.0
Ce   d'Ivolre
Nationl Agricultural Services Support Project .28Jun-94                          2004W2034       15.7          21.8
Labor Foe Training Support Priect ---- .        .....          28.Jun-94         2004)2034       12.1          17.0
Rural SaviWngs and Loans Rehabilitation and Promotion Project  05-Apr-94         24033            1.5           2.2
Human Resourcs Adjusinent Pron  ................               24-Feb94          2002/1          62.0          85.0
Compettes and Regulaoy Reform Proiect .O                       08-F94            20021202        362           50.0
Human Resurces Ajustment Program.08-Fe                                           2002/226        72.4         100.0
FinancW Sectr Adjushtent Program          .       .0                 94          2001)2026       72.4         100.0
Egypt
Agiculbal Modernization Project ..............----             24-Mar-4          20042029   4&7                67.0
Ethiopia
Calub Gas Developmnt Project .--                               29-M-94           2004.2034       531           743
Structural Adjtment Creit .14-Jan-94                                             20030            0.3           0.5
Gambibe, The
Capacity Building for Environmental Mangement Technical
Assistance Project..                                         12-Apr-94         2004)2033    19                2.6
Public Works and Cai lty Rulding Priojet                       14-Dec-93         2004033          73           11.0
Ghana
Conrunity Water and Sanitation Proect.                         14-Apr-94         2004)34         15.9          22.0
Local Government Development Project ..                        17-Feb-94         2004034         27.7          38.5
Agriculbal Sector Adjutmment Cedit .14-Jan-94                                    2002)31          4.1           5.7
Agricultural Sector Investmen Pmret..                          14-Dec-93         2004033         153           21.5
Guinea
Health and Nutrtion Sector Pmroje .01-Mar-94                                     2042033         17.4          24.6
Guyana
Second Structural Adjushment Credit .14-Jn-94                                    2000M030        2.0           2.8
Sugar Industy Resucturing and Puivtizaion Project              16-Sep-93         200433          10.9          15.0
Water Supply Technical Assist   and Rehabitation Prioect.      21-Dec-93         2004233         12.5          175
Honduras
Agricultual Sector Adjustment Credi .----------- ----          14-Jan4           2003Q033        20.1          27.9
Agricultural Sector AdjusLment Credit ..................       05-Aug-93         2003233         43.3          60.0
-   -                    f~~~~~~~~confrne)



242     IIBRDfiA Appendices
Stctement of IDA Credits Approved                                                                Appendix 8
during Fiscal Year 1994 ,cna3
Pdncipal amount
(rillions)
usa
Couwt"yploied rune                                           Date ot awmal       Mafles         SDR         equatu rt
India
Faily Welfare (Assarn Rajasthen and Kamataa) Proiect          16-Jun-94         20 W22          627           88.6
Cara  Blindness Control Proiect .12-May-94                                      204029          85.3         117.8
Malarashtra Emergency Earthqua  Rehabiltion Project ...       31-Mar-94         20042029       1D7.0         246.0
Haya  Waler Resources Consolidation Projet.                   29-Mar-94         20042          1873          255.0
Foresby Reserch Educion and Extension Proec t.........        24-Feb94          20042D29        33.8          47.0
Andhm Pradesh Foresby Project .................      .        24-Feb-94         2004)2029       55.6          7A
Kenya
Micro and Small Eners Training and Technology Project .       05-Apr-94         200404          15.7          21.8
Education Sector Adjustment C it.14-Jan-9                                       2001/2031       30.3          422
Kyrgyz Repubic
Patzation and Enteqiise Sector Adjustment Credit              29J"wi-94         2w4/2029        42.5          60.0
Telecoununications Project .23-Jun-94                                            2004/2029      12.8          180
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Second Highway Imprement Project .14-Apr-94                                     200420          21.8          30.0
Forest hMa mt and Consewation Project .25-Mar-94                                200420           6.3     B.
Luang Nantha Promvincial Development Project..                15-r-94           2004)2034        71            9.7
Lesotto
Privation and Prvatee Seor Devopment Assisance Piect          17-May-94          2004034         7.9          11.0
Macedonia, FYR of
Emcnomic fRv    Cne dt ..........................             08-F94             2042029        29.0          4U0
Madagascar
Cydcone    gency Rehabilitton Project ................        09-JU94            20040           93           131
Antrani  Urban Warks Pmje t.                                  29-Mar-94          20042033       13.3          18.3
Ptoleum Secor Reform Proje  .....................             29-Jul-93          20030      3  36.7           51
MUalawi
Second lnstktonal Development Poiect .---------------         09-Jun-94          2004204         16.0         22.6
Entrepeneurhip Development arnd Drought Recovey
Prom  Credt .................... ..........                 14an-94           2002/2034        3.1           43
Transport Sector Pmiect .............................         26-May-94          204/2034       46.1          65.0
Econonric Reovery Credt .........................             17-Mar-94          20042033       18.2          25.0
National Agricultual Research Project ..................      16-De-93           2004033        14.2          20.0
Maurtania
Agriculkual Serices Project .........................          8-Mar-94          200020         13.1          18.2
Public Enterprise SecLtor Adjusimen tCit ...............      14-Jn-94           20W4033         tO            1.3
Mongolia
Transpot Reabilitation Project .24-May-94    2004/034   21.6                                                  30.0
Economic Transition Support Project.........8...........      28-Oct-93          20D42033       142           20.0
Mozambique
Second Economic Recovery Pm gram.                             16-Jun-94          2004/2034     141.7         200.0
Gas Engineering Project......... .....: 16-Jun-94                                200412034      21.3          30.0
Financial Sector Capacity Building Projec .                   14-Apr-94          20042033        6.6           9.0



AppendCK 8   243
Prindip alount
(muemos)
uss
Countryprolecl 'Mn                                           Wie d approval       Maluries       SOR        equifale
Mozambique fcotinued)
Second Roads and Coamstal Shipping Proje    e ............ .  07-Apr-94          200U2034      136.2         1880
Nepal
Population and Family Health Proect ...............           12-Apr-94          2004034        19.4          26.7
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Pmject .............      15-Mar-94          20042034       36.6          505
Higher Education Project . ..........................         21-Dec-93          2004/2033      14.2          20.0
Nicaragua
Sewnd Economic Recovery Credit    ....................        21-Jun-I4          2004034        42.5          60.0
Second Economic Remoey C         rit t.....................   21-Jun-94          2(4034          5.4           7.6
Health Sector Retaon Pr ect   c........................      16-Dec-93          2004/2033      10.8          15.0
Agrcultural Technology and Land Management Pmiect .....       20-Jul-93          2004/2033      31.1          44.0
Nkger
Bask Education Sector Prje c t .......................        31-May-94          2004/34        293           41A
Economic Recavy C          redit   ..........................  17-Mar-94         200412034      182           25.0
Pakistan
Social Action Program Pr3ject .......... .............        31-Mar-94          2004/2034     1452          200.0
Balochistan Natural Resou;e Management Project .........      22-ar-94           2004/2029      10.7          14.7
Sindh Specl Developmern Priect           .       .            16-Dec-93          2004/2028      33.3          46.8
Public Sector Adiustment Credit ......... .............       14-Sep-93          2004/2028      71.8         100.0
Rwanda
Second National Agricultural Rsearch Proet ...........        14-Oct-3           2004033        10.9          15.0
Prvate Sector Development .       ....................0....   09-Sep-93         2004/2033   a      7          12
Senega
Economic Rweo very   t ..........................             17-Mar-94          20042034       18.2          25.0
Tmrport Sector Adjustent Credit ........... ..........         14-Ja-              012031        2.7           37
Siera Leone
Structural Adjusment Credit ........................          14-Jan-94          2004W233        0.1           0.2
Structural Adjustment Credit .......................          14-Oct-93          2004/2033      35.9          50.0
Tanzania
Second Integrated Roads Project ......................        07-Apr-94          204M034       123.3         170.2
Agricultural Secor Management Project ................        20-Ju-93           2003/2033       173          24.5
Togo
Togo Urban Development Project .....................          31-May-94          2004/2033       18.6         26.2
Uganda
Second Structural Adjustment Credit ...................       10-My-94           20042034       57.8          80.0
Cotton Subsector Devdopment Project .......  ..........       10-May-94          2004D034       10.0          14.0
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project ......... ..... ...   12-Apr-94          2004/2034      363           50.0
Transport Rehabilitation Project ...................          25-Mar-94          2004/2034      545           75.0
Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project ...............      17-M1ar-94         200U42033      30A           42.3
Financil Sector Adjustment Credit ....................        14-Jan-94          203/20M 3       0.8           1.1
Viet Nam
Agricultural ReBbtilitation Priect ....................       25-Jan-94          2004/2033      69.4          96.0
(cntned)



244     IBRDIDAAppendices
Statement of IDA Credits Approved -Appendix 8
during Fiscal Year 1994 t
Pdncitt angu
(millions)
CIYtoOieKt rO Bate ot awoinS                                                     MUrtdies        SOR        eqi*atn
Viet Nam  (coatnuew)
Primry EducationPie ..........................                26-Oct-93         2004/2033       49.6           70.0
Higwy Rehabilitaon Project ...........     .........          264-O93 -          2004/2033      1122          15B.5
Yemen
Educaion Sector Investment Proje............. .....           17-F94             2042033        23.9           33.0
Zambia
Peldeum Sector Rtbilitaton Project ........   .........       31-y-94            200424         21.6           30.0
Economic and Soial Adjent CredL .......       .........       10-ar-94           200W34         108.9         150.0
Prittion and Indusrl Reform       iL ...............C .       14-Jan-94          2002/2032       1Z1 6.8
Secod Priizon ad Indusrl Reom CrEdt .......        ...        09Ag-93            2002033          7.0          10.0
Financia and Legal Mngaint Upgtdmg Projec.....                13-Jul-93         203203          12.8           110
an aleT Uga gPOWe ......................................                                    413Ju93.6       MM811
Not Samong wih e six  repbenti of IA cuts  ae expessed in speci draing rghts ISDRs). The US-dlar eated o Ihe oWig  palpn
anmut    dis denominted in SDRs is tu ath.e rate appmved by the creaie board All aets appmved in 6al  1994%  m  a swim dwge f
a,75 perent on te dsbwused and ouWawiding dlan  Deils ay not add l totals bese of oundrg



AppendIk 9   245
Current IBRD, IDA, and Blend Borrowers Appendix 9
(based on fisca year 1994-97 lendcg pgrogm)
June30, 1994
oRD only
Algeria                    Ecuador                         Lebanon                              Russian Federation
Akgenifm                   B Salvador                      Lithunia                             Sloak Republic
Azerbijan                  Eslonia                         Maurilms                             Slovenia
Babados                    Fiji                            Malaysia                             Sout Alrica
Bebrs                      Gabon                           Mexico                               Swazilnd
Belize                     Guatefata                       Morocco                             Thailnd
Brazil                     Hungary                         Moldova                             Trinidad and Tob3go
Bulgaria                  Indonesia                        Panarna                             Tuisia
Chile                      hak  Islarnic  epublic ol       Paraguay                             Turkey
Colornbia                  Jamaica                         Papua New Guinea                     Tulreistan
Costa Rica                 Jordan                          Peru                                 Ukaine
Croafia                    Kazastman.                      Philippines                          Uruguay
Czech Republic             Korea. Republic of              Poland                               Uzbeddstan
Dominican Republic         Laia                             Romania                             Venezuela
IDA only
Albania                    Congo                           Lao Peop1e6s Deocatic Republic       Seregat
rrmenia                    C6e dhroire                     Madagascar                           Sierre Leone
Bangadesh                  Dpibouti                        Malai-                               Solomon Islands
Benin                      Eritrea                         Maldives                             Sri Lank
Bhutan                     Ethiopia                        Mali                                 Tajikisan
Bolivia                    Gambia. The                     Mauritania                           Tanzania
Buridna Faso               Georgia                         Mongolia                             TogM
Burundi                    Ghana                           Mozambique                           Uganda
Cambodia                   Guinea                          Nepal                                Vanualu
Caineroon                  Guinea-Bissau                   Nicaagua                             Viet Nam
Cape Verde                 Honduras        -Niger                                              Wesn Samna
Central Arian Republic     Kena                            Nigeria                              Yeman. Republic oi
Chad                       Kiribati                         Rwanda                              Zambia
Comoms                                                     3%o Twrt and Printpe
Blend countries
Angola                     Egypt                           Kyrgyz Republic                      Paldistan
Caribbean Region           Guyaa                           Lesotho                              Znnabwe
China                     India                            Macedonia, FYR of



246   BRD/fIDAAppedices
Development Committee                                              Appendix 10
Comrnuniques, Fiscal Year 1994
Forty-seventh2 meeting. Washtington.      in income per capita, and success in reducing
September 27, 1993                        poverty and in protecting the environment has
1. The 47th meeting of the Development   been uneven.
Committee was held in Washington DC on Set  5. The Committee welcomes the broadening
tember 27, 1993 under the chairmanship of   political consensus on adjustment strategies
Mr. Rudolf Hommes, Minster of Finance and   which stress stabilization and market-friendly
Public Credit ofColombia-t The Committee ex-   measures, combined with human resource de-
tended its thanks to the retiring Chairman, Mr.   velopment and poverty alleviation. It believes
Ricardo Hausmann of Venezuela.            such strategies will succeed over time, if im-
2. GAZA AND THE WEST BANK. The   plemented consistently and backed up by
Committee welcomed the outstanding contri-  structural reforms consistent with long-term
bution to the Middle East Peace Process made   sustainable development. It therefore urges
by the World Bank in preparing the ground for   countries which have not yet embarked on the
a coordinated program of financial support for   adjustment process to fornulate and imple-
Gaza and the West Bank.                   ment their own programs accordingly. The de-
3. WORLD ECONOMY. The Committee   sign of adjustment programs and of external
reviewed the impact on developing countries of   assistance needs to reflect the socio-political
recent trends in the world economy- It renewed   background and institutional capacity of the
its cal for a fresh impetus to growth in the   countries concerned. It follows that the best
industrial countries, and for a successful con-   programs are those which are hone-grown.
clusion of the Uruguay Round by the end of   The Bank and the Fund (as appropriate) in their
1993 on the basis of a comprehensive and bal-  relations with the borrowing countries, will do
anced agreement; this is crucial to the growth   more to address the impact of macro-econonic
prospects for industrial and developing coun-   and adjustment measures and their sequencing
tries alike. It therefore welcomed the joint   on poverty, employment, investment and the
statement by Mr. Sutherland, Mr. Preston,   environment. Some of the lessons of the East-
and Mr. Camdessus, issued on the morning of   Asian experience may be relevant to today's
its meeting.                              low-income countries, particularly those of
4. ADJUSTMENT EXPERIENCE OF   macro-economic policy, export orientation,
LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES AND THEIR   human resource development and the training
FINANCING NEEDS. The Committee recog-   of a professional civil service.
nizes that many low-income countries have   6. In many cases, low-income countries win
found it hard to make the economic adjustment   need to supplement domestic savings with for-
necessary to achieve economic and social   eign investment and with substantial and timely
progress. There are several reasons: the main   concessional financial support, together with
ones are poor initial conditions; lack of domes-   necessary and appropriate relief of bilateral
tic savings; lack of adequate institutional and   debt To sustain the required levels of external
administrative capacity; inappropriate policies   support and investment, they will have to
which take time to correct; and an unflavorable   maintain their commitment to economic re-
external environment. Progress in most direc-  form, poverty alleviation, environmental
tions has been slower than among the middle-   soundness, public participation and good gov-
income countries, but the preliminary evidence   ernance. Donors should focus concessional
suggests that countries which sustain strong   assistance on the low-income adjusting coun-
adjustment policies do better than the rest. In   tries. They should complete ratification of
these countries there has been significant   IDA-10 as early as possible. agree to the broad-
progress with macro-economic stabilization
and outwardly orientated policies, and in de-  r   i
,    .  .  . '    .     '~~~~~ Mr. Lewis T- Pwon, Pesidknt of thrc World Batik. Mr.
controlling domestic prices, particularly in ag-    MicheCamdessusManangDiornofthI1tenmtional
riculture. But even there, financial-sector and    MonetaryFund. Mr. PeterSutherland.Director-Gencral of
public-enterprise reforms have lagged behind,   the GATr. Mr. Mohammed Imady, Ministcr or Economy
and private investment has responded only    and Foreign Trade of Syrma and Chairman ofatc Group of
andwrivhat ionvdeslen haAs a responded irony    _4, and Mr. Peter Mountrield. Excautive Seactary. took
with a considerable lago As a result, improve-    ptt inathe meeting. Observrs from a number of interm-
ments have not yet led to a sustained increase   tionul and regonal orgainiztions also attended.



Appendlx 10  247
est possible spectrum of contributors to the   operations in this area. It notes that the Bank's
ESAF successor, work for its rapid implemen-   Executive Board will be reviewing the strategy
tation, and make significant bilateral contnbu-   in the Spring of 1994-
tions to the SPA.                           10. THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF
7. SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM AND    AID. The Comnittee believes it is more than
SOCIAL SAFETY NETS. The Committee   ever important to enhance the effectiveness of
looked at the continued need for social sup-   development assistance. welcomes recent
port, both to meet life hazards an d to help those   steps taken by the World Bank in this context,
hurt by necessary adjustment measures. Many   and proposes to address this matter next year.
existing insurance structures have created un-   In order to provide maximum help to recipi-
sustainable burdens on the government budget   ents, donor agencies and multilateral institu-
and the competitiveness of the formal sector,  tions need to maintain and improve their cost-
while failing to cover important groups of the   effectiveness.
population. Existing entitlements may now  Il. NEXT MEETING. The Committee will
have to be reviewed. In many countries, in-   meet again in Washington DC on April 26,
cluding economies in ransition, a system com-   1994, when it wil discuss population and mi-
bining elements of public and private provision   gration issues.
will be appropriate, but the mix will vary frnm
case to case. The international institutions can    orty-eighth meeting, Wasington,
help by continuing to provide technical assis-   April 26, 1994
tance and policy advice.                    I. The 48th meeting of the Development
8. In addition to these classical social secu-   Committee was held in Washington DC on
rity systems, countries engaged in adjustment   April 26, 1994, under the chairmanship of Mr.
or systemic transformation may require well-   Rudolf Hommes, Minister of Fmance and Pub-
designed extra social safety nets, integrated   lic Credit of Colombia'
into their poverty-reduction strategy, involving  2. RESOURCE FLOWS. Ministers wel-
schemes such as labor-intensive public works,   come the increased flows of resources to de-
nutrition programs, targeted food subsidies, re-   veloping countries; 1993 was another record
training of dismissed workers, and 'sociat   year. Particularly noteworthy was the sus-
funds.' But governments should avoid creat-  tained growth in private flows, which went
ing new long-term entitlements which might   mainly to the faster-growing and outwardly on-
build up future budgetary problems. The ap-   ented countries which have implemented suc-
propriate mix of measures depends on data   cessful reforms. Similarly, much of the
availability, administrative capacity, and finan-   increase in official flows has been concentrated
cial resources. Budget outlays should where   on nonconcessional loans to middle-income
necessary be realocated to provide financial   countries. Much ofthe concessional official de-
resources, both for safety nets and for other   velopment assistance has been targeted on
pro-poor social spending. The poorest among   poorer countries, although its total increased
them may require continued technical and fi-  only modestly in 1993 and the outlook contin-
nancial support for such schemes from the   ues to be unfavorable. In that connection, Min-
World Bank and from donors. The Committee   isters welcome the progress made and the
welcomes the constructive part played by the   increased amounts pledged atlast week's meet-
Bank and the Fund in their respective roles, in  ing on the Special Program of Assistance for
supporting social security system reforms and   Africa, and the recent extension and enlarge-
establishing and financing safety nets as part of   ment of the IMFs Enhanced Structural Adjust-
their adjustment lending.                 ment Facility.
9. WORLD BANK WOMEN-IN-DEVEL-
OPMENT STRATEGY. The Commiittee wel-   I Mr. Lewis T. Preston. President of the Wodd Bank. Mr.
comed a report on the World Bank's attempts    wichcamdcsus.iManagingDirecroraftheIntcrnational
to integrate gender issues into its overall de-    Monetary Fund. Mr. Willy W. Zapata. President of due
velopment strategy. It commends the progress    Mr. deter   and Chairmanoe Groupof24.and
made, and welcomes the President's commit-   then     rting.Obsevem*om anumber of international and
ment to a further strengthening of the Bank's   regional orgnizations also attended



248 IBRDADA Appendlces
Development Commiltee                                            Appendix10
Communiques, Fiscal Year 1994  iconu&Q
3. POPULATION- The Committee re-         First, improvements in the primary school
viewed some of the issues which will be raised   enrollment rate in low-income countries to
at the forthcoming United Nations Conference   achieve universal primary education;
on Population and Development to be held in  Second, improving access to famiy planning
Cairo in September 1994. They welcomed the   and related health services, estimated by UN-
Secretary-General of the Conference, Dr.   FPA to require a doubling of investments by
Nafis Sadik, who addressed their meeting.  the year 2000;
4. Trends. The world's population has grown  Third, reductions in maternal and child mor-
by 1.7 billion in the past two decades. Almost  tality in developing countries.
all the increase  2s in -the developing coun-  7. Developing countries. In general, the re-
tries. The total population now stands at nearly   source requirements are affordable, compared
5.7 billion, about a billion of whom still live in   with other major expenditure programs. Many
poverty. Although the rate of growth is now    developing economies can meet the costs. In
slowing down, another 2.8 billion will be added   some cases costs are already covered by user
to the total by 2025, on the current United  fees. But for the poorest people, continued
Nations "most likely" projections. On this ba-   public support will be essential, and isjustified
sis, world population will probably double in   by the benefits. Ministers agreed that develop-
less than 50 years. Ministers agree that the   ing countries should considergiving these three
massive economic, social, political and envi-  objectives priority within total budgets.
romnental consequences of these changes can-  8. Donors. The poorest countries will still
not be ignored.                          need help from donors. Bilateral and multilat-
5. Policies. Ministers believe that an inte-   eral donors currently contribute about $1
grated population policy in developing coun-   billion a year to population programs in devel-
tries must recognize the links between   oping countries. Ministers hope that many in-
econonmc growth, population, poverty reduc-   dividual bilateral donors will be able to
tion, health, investment in human resources   improve the present average 1.25% share of ex-
and environmentat degradation. All couples   isting aid budgets allocated to population pro-
and individuals have the right to decide freely   grams, as well as their support for health and
and responsibly on the number and spacing of   education.
their children. Family planning is only one of    9. The World Bank. At the multlateral level,
the available instruments and needs to be seen   Ministers welcome the increasing share of the
in the broader context of changing social pat-   World Bank's social sector progams which
terns and the increased awareness of women's   have risen from 6% to 16% ofthe total portfolio
role. Population programs are therefore be-  in the past five years. Within this program,
coming increasingly diverse, depending on the   about $1.8 billion annually is currently allo-
stage of the demographic transition in each   cated to population, health and nutrition, and
country. Moreover, experience demonstrates   $1.9 billion to education. Much of this affects
that improved education and employment  the demand for population services indirectly.
prospects (particularly for girls), improved   There are currently ten or more projects a year
health, and increased income all tend to reduce   with significant direct population components.
the birth rate- Institutional arrangements for   costing $200 million, concentrated mainly in
the delivery of servic-s may need to be   the poorest developing countries. Ministers
strengthened, and must be tailored to local con-   welcome the Bank's readiness to respond rap-
ditions and needs, taking full advantage of  idly to requests for more assistance in this
available nongovernmental and private sector  field. Ministers recognize that the Bank is not
organizations. They must pay full regard to the   the principal organization concerned with pop-
social and cultural traditions of each country.   ulation, but that its policy dialogue and wider
6. Priorities. Ministers note that the Cairo   operations give it a unique opportunity to pro-
Conference will seek to establish clear and re-   mote population policies. They therefore call
alistic objectives for future population policy.   on the Bank, other donors, the other multilat-
Without prejudging the outcome of the Confer-  erals such as UNFPA, and the borrowing gov-
ence, they agree that three objectives in par-  ernments to collaborate fully in operations and
ticular deserve special attention:       in mobilizing the institutional and financial re-



AppendbI 10  249
sources needed; and re-evaluate their efforts    14. Commodities. Ministers also reviewed
following the Cairo Conference.          recent work in the Bank and the Fund on com-
10. Migration. Ministers discussed the re-   modity prices. They agree that despite signs or
lated issue of international migration, and its   a modest recovery in the shorl term, prices are
social, political and financial consequences for   unlikely to return to the levels of the 1970s and
importing and exporting countries alike. They   early 1980s. Given these uncertainties, Minis-
note that relatively little is known about the   ters agree it would be prudent not to assume an
nature of these issues. Ministers noted the need   improvement in the long term, and wise to err
for policies addressing these issues. They call  on the side of caution.
for more policy-oriented research on migration  15. Ministers agree that if price shocks are
and closer collaboration between the different   expected to be only temporary. then provision
international agencies concemed.         of compensatory finance may be appropriate.
I t. TRADE. Ministers greatly welcome the   But if the fall in prices is expected to be Pe;r-
successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round   manent. then an adjustment-oriented response
and the agreements reached at Marrakesh and   should not be deferred in the hope of a recov-
call for their rapid ratification and full imple-   ery. Ministers therefore believe that develop-
mentation. These agreements reduce the riskof  ing country govemrnents should continue to
a relapse into protectionism, which would have   diversify their economies. They will need the
greatly damaged many developing countries   ongoing support of the World Bank. the Fund
and countries in transition. They open up the   and the donorcommunity. Ministers call on the
prospect of faster economic growth for the   Bank to explore additional measures in its in-
world as a whole. All countries stand to gain.   vestment work in this area. The continuing vol-
For countries to reap the full benefits from the   atility of prices also requires the maintenance
Round, it is essential that they maintain stable   of contingency measures to safeguard pro-
macroeconomic environments and intensify   grams supported by the Fund.
their structural refonn programs and trade lib-  16. Ministers note that few international
eraization, while improving their access to   commodity agreements have maintained price
world markets.                            levels in the face of fhlling demand, increased
12. Ministers note that some developing   production, and lower costs. Government
countries may be adversely affected in the tran-   price stabilization schemes do not generally
sition to the new world trading system, by the   work well when commodity prices are ex-
loss of preferences or by higher prices for food   pected to fall further or remain low; they tend
imports, although these effects wiU only be felt  to create distortions and place considerable
gradualy, leaving time for adjustment. They   strain on government budgets. For many coun-
urge the Bank and the Fund to take account of  tries and products, hedging instruments in
these possible adverse effects in designing   commercial futures markets now permit pri-
country assistance strategies and operational   vate agents to protect themselves against price
support for the affected countries.      fluctuations, although there remain a number
13. Ministers welcome the creation of the   of legal, financial and technical barriers. Min-
new World Trade Organization. They urge the   isters welcome the technical assistance being
WTO, the Bank and the Fund to cooperate   given by UNCTAD, the World Bank and other
fuUly and, within their own areas of responsi-  agencies, to help smaller producers overcome
bility, to help developing countries and coun-  these obstacles and take advantage of such
tries in transition to take advantage of the new    markets. They welcome the studies being un-
market opportunities. They also hope that all  dertaken by the Bank of new guarantee mech-
developing countries and countries in transi-  anisms which would permit these poorer and
tion will soon join, so as to increase market  less creditworthy countries to undertake
access for their exports. They note that both   market-based hedging operations.
Bank and Fund are engaged in fuller study of  17. DEVELOPMENT BANKS. The Com-
the impact of the Round, of future trade policy,   mittee agreed in principle to establish a small
and of their own future activities in the trade   Task Force to review the development role be-
area. Ministers will resume discussion of these   ing played by the Multilateral Development
questions at their next meeting.         Banks, including the World Bank. and the four



250 IBRDIADA Appendices
Development Commiftee                                                    Appendix 10
Communiques% Fiscal Year 1994  fconfinu
main regional banks . This Task Force, whose    warmest thanks to Mr. Hommes at the cnd of
Chairman, terms of reference, and composition    his period in the Chair.
will be agreed after consultation with the gov--  19. NEXT MEETING. The Committee
ernments, will aim to complete its work by Oc-   agreed to meet again in Madrid, Spain, oni Oc-
tober 1995.                                   tober 3, 1994, when it will discuss the question
18. CHAIRMAN. The Committee selected    of Aid Effectiveness and the work of the World
Mr. M'Hamed Sagou of Morocco to be its next   Bank and IMF in the light of the Uruguay
Chairman in succession to Mr. Rudolf Hom-   Round.
mes of Colombia. The Committee expressed its



251
Index
Accelerated Cofinancing Facilities. 7D-71        World Bank advice on external-debt management,
Adjustment lending, 15, 82 (box), 104            7r
Africa region                                  Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only countries. 15,
cross-border initiative, 84                    17, 27, 72
devaluation of the CFA franc. 24, 27, 81, 83-84  Developing countries, growth in 1993, 23-25. 25
economic perfcrmance in 1993. 24, 7983         (table)
health reforms in, 85 (box)                  Disbursements. See International Bank for Recon-
political transition in. 80                    struction and Development; International Devel-
regional cooperation efforts, 84               opment Association; World Bank
Special Program of Assistance (SPA). 71, 79,   Disbursements, by source of supply. 57-68
86-87
World Bank assistance strategy toward. 84-87  East Asia and Pacific region
Argentina                                        the East Asian "miracle" study, 89 (box)
Capital Market Development Project, 55         economic performance in 1993. 23. 88-91
pension reform in, 112                         environmental pressures, 92-93
infrastructure bottlenecks, 93
Bangladesh, economic performance in 1993, 97     Pacific islands' performance in 1993, 89-90
Brazil                                           portfolo performane, 94
debt-reduction ageement, 27 (footnote)         proges in poverty reduction, 91-929
economiic performance in 1993, 110-111        trade imbalances. 94
trade reform, Ill                              World Bank operations and strategy, fiscal 1994.94
Economnic Development Institute (EDI)
Canbodia                                         activities in fiscal 1994. 156-58
Bank lending initiated to, 90, 91 (box)        activities in former Soviet Union, 157
reforn program announced, 91 (bar)             collaboration with the Joint Vienna Institute, 158
Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM), 109          McNamara Fellowship Program. 157
CFA firanc devaluation, 24, 27, 81, 83-84        Moscow office opened, 158
Chile, pension reform in, 112                    World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program. 157
China                                          Education. See also Humwn resources development
economic performance in 1993, 23, 88           World Bank higher-education policies, 34-35 (box)
reform efforts in fiscal 1994. 89            Egypt
Cofinancing                                     economic performance in 1993, 114
Accelerated Cofinancing Facilities, 70-71      economic reform program, 118
Cofinancing Task Force report, 70              World Bank supervision work. 121
Consultant Trust Fund Program, 72            Energy, Worid Bank work on, 52-53
ECO (expanded cofinancing operations) program.   Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme.
72                                           53 (box)
Population and Human Resources Development   Environmcnt
(PHRD) Fund, 71-72                           East Asian pressures on. 92-93
Special Program of Assistance (SPA), 71, 79.   executive directors' review of Bank activities, 18
8647                                         Global Environment Facility, 4748. 55
volume, fiscal 1994, 70                       implementation review of the Bank's portfolio of
Commodities, primary, price movements in 1993.    environmental projects, 45-46
29-30                                          Mediterranean Environmental Tcchnical Assis-
Consultative Group on International Agricultural Re-  tance Program. 119
search (CGOAR), activities in fiscal 1994. 4849  review of Bank projects involving involuntary re-
Consultative groups, meetings chaired by the Bank,  settlement. 44-45 (box)
19 (table)                                    review of cavironmental assessmcnts. 43-45
Country-assistance strategies                   review of national environmental action plans. 46
executive directors' review of, 18             South Asia's environmental challenges. 99-100
poverty issues addressed through, 36           World Bank environmental strategy in Africa.
85-86
Debt. See also Paris Club                        World Bank support for environmental actions in
overall developments in 1993, 25-28             Europe and Central Asia. 106



252   Index
World Bank support for environmental actions in    Human resources developmnent
the Middle East and North Africa. 119         World Bank overall lending in fiscal 1994 for. 33
Environmentally sustainable development. World   World Bank lending for education projects. 39
Bank lending in support of, 49-50               World Bank lending for population, health, and nu-
Europe and Central Asia region                     trition, 39
econormic performance in 1993, 23, 24-25. 101-103  World Bank research on, 158-59
enterprise and financial sector reforms, 103-104  World Bank support for in the Middle East and
portfolio quality, 106                            North Africa. 119
privatization programs, 103, I4 (box)          World Bank women-in-development policy. 36-37
World Bank suppo,t for privatization and financial    Hungary, Bank assistance to higher-education re-
sector development, 105                       forms, 39
World Bank support for poverty reduction. 106  Hunger Conference (Conference on Actions to Re-
World Bank support to alleviate infrastructural  duct Hunger Worldwide). 12. 39, 49
constraints in, 105
Executive directors                            India
Ad Hoc Committee on Review of Board Cormmit-    economic performance in 1993, 24
tees, 21_2                                    environmental measures undertaken, 99
allocation of IDA relows. 17                   flows of foreign direct investment to. 98
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget      poverty-reduction efforts, 98-99
Practices. 20-21                              reform measures undertaken. 96
Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters.  Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project. 39
2X1                                         Industriatized countries
Committee on Personnel Policy lssues. 21        econonmic perfonnance in 1993. 23, 24 (table)
consideration of the Operations Evaluation De-   Infrastructure
partmcat's activities, 24   -                 needs in East Asia and Pacific region, 91, 93
country-assistance strategy reviews, 18         pnvate sector financing of. 52
involvement in establishing an independent inspec-  World Development Report 1994, 43
tion panel. 17. 74                          Inspection panel, 12-13, 17. 74 (box)
involvement with the Development Committee. 20   Institutional Development Fund. See Technical as-
Joint Audit Commitee, 20. 154                   sistance
negative-pledge policy modified. 18           Inter-American Development Bank. cofinancing
portfolio management oversight, 17              with the World Bank. 70
review ea currency-pool targets, 167          Internal Auditing Department, activities in fiscal
rview of the IBRD's capital adequacy. 171-72    1994. 156
review of IDA policies, operaLions, and finances   International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
during IDA-9. 17. 170-71 (box)                ment (IBRD)
review of poverty-reduction progrss. 17         assistance to the poorest countries. 14 (figure). 15
review of single-currency loan program, 167     borrowings in fiscal 1994. 16. 167. 168-71
Steering Committee, 22                          commitments in fiscal 1994. 11 (table). 15. 56.
travel to developing member countries. 18         14453 (tables)
disbursements. 11 stable). 15, 57. 167
Fimancial sector development                      capital-adequacy revisw. 171-fl
progress of reforms in Europe and Centrt Asia  lcn in nonaccruat status. 168
103-104loninnncrastt.16
reforms needed in East Asia. 93-94              membership, 15
World Bank assistarce for, 53-54                net income, 11 (table), 167
World Bank assistance for in Europe and Centrl  provisionig for possible loan losses, 167
Asia, 105                                     review of currency-pool targets, 167
First Annual ESD Conference. 49review of single-currency loan program. 17. 167
-FirstAnnual ESD Conference,49                  International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Foreign direct investment                         Disputes (ICSID). activities in fiscal 1994. 165
flows in 1993. 14-iS. 28. 156                 international Development Association (IDA)
flows to India, 98                              assistance to the poorestcountnes 14 figure). 1S
flows to Latm Amer;-11, I                       assistncent autheporety contrisc , 14  g) 
flows to the Middle Eat and North Africa region,  commitment authoity in fiscal 199(. 172
1445 f3 (tables). 172
flows to Sri Lanica, 98                         disbursements in fiscal 1992 11 (table). 57
Foreign Investment Advisory Service, 164          **Fifh Dimension" program. 17. 171
Forestry policy, review of acceptance and inplemen-  mcmbership. 15
tation, U                                       ninth replenishment progress review, 170-71 (box)
tenth replenishment notifications of participation.
Global Environment Facility. See Environment        172
Governance, World Bank experience with, 76 (box)   International Finance Corpuration (IFC)
Grameen Trust, World Bank grant to, 49            activities in fiscal 1994. 163-64
assistance in privatization. 52. 104 (box).
Housing Indicators Program. See United Nations    colaboration with the World Bank in private sec-
Centre for Human Settlements                      tor development, 50. 51 (box). 52-55



lndo    253
Iran, economic performance in 1993. 114           publications issued in fiscal 1994, 155
role in portfolio managemei., 73. 154
Japan
Accelemrted Cofinancing Facilities, 70-71     Pacific island countries, recent economic perrior-
cofinancing of World Bank projects. 70           mance, 88-89
Funds for Development Initiative. 70          Pakistan
Policy and Human Resources Development          environmental measures undertaken, 99
(PHRD) Fund. 71-72                            poverty-reduction efforts, 98
Jordan                                            reform efforts in, 96. 98
economic performance in 1993. 114               social action progam (SAP), 40, 98
reform program, 118                           Paris Club. reschedulingsorestnicturings in 1993, 27
Participatory developmcnt
Kenya, economic performance in 1993. 82-83        Bankwide learing process on. 35-36
effect on project effectiveness, 34-35
Latin America and the Caribbean region            Participation Fund, 12, 36
economic performance in 1993, 23-24. 107-108    Participation Sourcebook. 46-47
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFrA).   Peru, pension reforms in. 112
30. 32, 109-110                             Philippines, economic performance in. 88
pension reforms in, 112                       Population, health, and nutrition. See Human re-
poverty levels in, 108                          sources development
regional integration and trade, 109           Portfolio management
World Bank povcrty-reduction strategy in, 109   action plan to improve portfolio management
World Bank strategic objectives in, 1             73-75
annual report on portfolio performance, 76, 77, 77
Mediterranean Environmcntal Technical Assistance   (b       r s        io
Progaram, 1 19                                  executtive directors' oversight of. 17
MERCOSUR, 109-110                                 in the Afiica region. 87
Mcxico. the NAFTA's effect on, 32.1 10            in the East Asia and Pacific region. 94
Middle East and North Africa region               in the South Asia region. 100
ecoornepeforanc in199,24114114 (table)  in the Europe and Central Asia region. 106
economic performance in 1993, 24,114, ll (all  ithe Latin America and the Caribbean region. 113
human resources development in, 116            in the Middle East and North Afnica region. 121
investment-rate increases needed :., i 15-16 Iin
population growth in. 153                       pro2ram of staff training begun, 162
social indicators lagging in, 116              triting progrm  begun by the Ecnomic Devel-
-  scinctsaign17opment Institute, 157
waier-mannagement needs, 116-17               Poverty assessmnents. 36
World Bank assistance strategy in. 1.7-20     Poverty reduction
Mining Conference, 54                             monitoring. 33-35, 35 (table)
Morocco               i 3program of targeted interventions (PTl). 33-34. 35
economic performance n                                )993, 114  (fabl)
World Bank strategy in,r 118                    pr     in South Asia. 98-99
private sector assessment, 11819                World Bank lending for in East Asia and Pacific, 94
private sector development in, 55               World Bank's progress inreducing poverty. 11. 17.
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)    36
activities in fiscal 1994. 164-65
support for private sector development. , 50, 54  World Bank researchi on, 1I8
' ' ~~World Bank strategy in the Africa region, 85
World Bank strategy in the Europe and Central
Negative-pledge clause, modifications to. 18        Asia region. 106
NGO-World Bank Committce. 40                      World Bank strategy in the Latin America and the
Nigeria, recent economic performance. 81-82         Caribbean region. 112
Nongovernmental organiations                      World Bank strategy in the Middle East and North
Hunger Conference involvement. 12. 49            Africa region 119
role in the Global Environment Facility. 42     Word Bank strategy to reducc poverty. 11. 33
role in South Asia. 99                          World Bank support for in Europe and Central
workshop on participatory development. 36         Asia. 106
World Bank cooperation with. 4042,41 (table). 55    Private sector development
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).      Capital Mark-et Development Proect (Argentina).
30. 32. 109-110                                   55
coordination between the World Bank and the In-
Occupied Ternriries                                ternational Finance Corporation. 50-55
Economic Development Institute assistance to.   financial sector policies. 63
157                                           Private Investment Credit Project (Tunisia). 55
World Bank assistance to. 116-17 (box)          private sector assessments 50-51. 51 (box). 113.
Opemtions evaluation                                11819
activities in fiscal 1994. 154-56               World Bank Group lending in support of. 50
executive directors' oversight of, 1617         World Bank research on. 159



254   Index
World Bank support for in Latin America and the  movements in volume and value in 1993. 29-30
Caribbean. 113                                regional trading arrangements, 32. 101. 109-110
Privatization                                   Trust funds, 71-fl
Bank Group assistance for. 51-52, r--73       Trust Fund for Gaza, 116
progress in Europe and Central Asia. 103-104  Tunisia
progress in Latin America, 146-47               economic performance in 1993. 114
progress in Russia (box). 104                   World Bank operational strategy in. 118
progress in South Asia. 97                      Private Investment Credit Project, 55
World Bank support for in Europe and Central   Turkey
Asia, 105    -                                economic performance in 1993. 1012
Proiject Preparation Facility. See Technical assis-  World Bank lending program in. 105
tance
Public Information Center, 13. 17               Uganda
reform efforts in. 83
Research program of the World Bank                relations with nongovernmental organizations, 40
Annual Conference on Development Economics.    United Nations, World Bank collaboration with,
160                                           39-40
research on environmental issues. 159         United Nations Centre for Human Settlements.
research on human resources development. 158-59  World Bank collaboration with. 46
research on macroeconomic issues and economic    United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
rmanagement. 15940                            See also Consultative Group on Intemational
research on poverty reduction, 158                Agricultural Research; Energy Sector Manage
research on private sector development. 159       meat Assistance Program; Global Environment
Russia                                              Facility
Farm Transfornation Study. 47                   cooperation with the World Bank in technical as-
Moscow office opened by the Economic Develop-     sistance. 69
ment Institute. 158                           decline in grant financing. 68
recent experience with inflation. 101
privatization programn. 25. 103. 104 (box)    Viet Nam
unemployment in. 102                            resumption of World Bank lending. 90.91 (box)
state-enterprise reform. 94
Single-currency loan program, review of, 17. 167
Social assessment gu'idelines. 47               Women in development. See Human resources de-
South Africa                                      velopment
economic performance in 1993. 24                operational directive on. 37
World Bank capacity building in. 87           World Bank
South Asia                                        adjustment lending in fiscal 1994. 15. 56. 104
economic performance in 1993. 24.95-            assistance to the poorest countries. 14 (figure). 15
reform efforts in, 96-98                        budget, 16. 20-21, 160. 161 (table)
poverty-reduction progress in. 98-99            comnitments in fiscal 1994. 15.56,144-53 (rables)
environnental protection in. 99-100             commitments. disbursements. net transfers to
World Bank lending strategy. 100  -               Africa. 86 (table)
Soviet Union (forner)                             commitments, disbursements. net transfers to East
Economic Development Institute program in, 157    Asia and Pacific. 93 (table)
economic performance in 1993. 101               commitments, disbursements, net transfers to
trade contracts in. 101                           South Asia. 99 (table)
unemployment in. 102                            commitments. disbursements, net transfers to Eu-
privatization in, 103-104                         rope and Central Asia. 105 (table)
Specil Program of Assistance (SPA)- See Africa re-  commitments, disbursements. net transfers to
gion                                              Latin America and the Canbbean. Ill (table)
Sri Lanka, foreign direct investment to. 98       commitments, disbursements. net transfers to
Middle East and North Africa. 119 (table)
Technical assistance                              disbursements in fiscal 1994. 15. 56-68
cooperation with the UNDP. 69                   organizational changes. 163
executive directors' monitoring of. 18          personnel. 160, 162
Institutional Development Fund. 68-69           rehabilitation of main complex. 162
Project Prqeration Facility. 69                 staff benefits. 19-20. 21, 162
supplied by MIGA. 165                         World Development Report 1993. 38
World Bank activities in 1993. 68             World Development Report 1994. 43
Trade                                           Wor-ld Trade Organization. 32
effects of the Uruguay Round agreement, 30-32.
31 (box)



