FILE COPY
Report No.:1  11196
Tit le:  THE
Author: WORL
Ext.:  0 Room  Dep
1992
THE WORLD BANK
ANNUAL REPORT 1992
r'     p


﻿
﻿THE WORLD BANK
ANNUAL REPORT 1992
O The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433


﻿2
Photo Credits
Cover: Thomas Sobolik for Black Star
Page 22: Neeraj Jain
Page 110: Belinda Morris
Page 113: Ray Witlin
Page 124: Tomas Sennett
Page 131: Tomas Sennett
Page 137: Elizabeth Crayford
Page 145: Edwin G. Huffman
Page 151: Peter Muncie
Cover:
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe contin-
ued to demonstrate during the year their commit-
ment to a thorough transformation of their economic
systems. Progress has occurred in establishing a
legal framework for private-sector development.
Growth in the number of registered private enter-
prises has been explosive. In this photo, the owner of
a fruit and vegetable stand weighs apples.
Cover design by Joyce C. Petruzzelli
ISSN: 0252-2942
ISBN: 0-8213-2149-8


﻿3
Letter of Transmittal
The details of events covering the period  cation to the institution's ideals. They note that
July 1, 1991, to June 30, 1992, are found in this  the continued professionalism of the staff made
Annual Report, which has been prepared by  it possible for the Bank to respond to the
the executive directors of both the Interna-  exceptional challenges posed by the dissolu-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-  tion of the former Soviet Union into indepen-
ment (IBRD) and the International Develop-  dent, sovereign  states and the progress
ment Association (IDA) in accordance with the  towards peace in several of the Bank's regions;
by-laws of the two organizations. Lewis T.  both events have led to a sharp expansion in
Preston, president of the IBRD and IDA and  the demand for Bank services.
chairman of the boards of executive directors,  The annual reports of the International Fi-
has submitted this Report, together with ac-  nance Corporation, the Multilateral Invest-
companying administrative budgets and au-  ment Guarantee Agency, and the International
dited financial statements, to the boards of  Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
governors.                                 are published separately.
The directors express their appreciation to
the staff members of the Bank for their dedi-
Executive Directors                        Alternates
Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf                        Ahmed M. A      S-Ghannam
Fawzi Hamad Al-Sultan                      Mohamed W. Hosny
Aris Othman                                Aung Pe
J. S. Baijal                               M. A. Syed
Mohamed Benhocine                          Salem Mohamed Omeish
Rosario Bonavoglia                          Fernando S. Carneiro
Fdlix Alberto Camarasa                     Nicolos Flafto
E. Patrick Coady                           Mark M. Collins
John H. Cosgrove                           A. John Wilson
Fritz Fischer                              Harald Rehm
Eveline HDrecns                           Boris Skapin
Yasuyuki Kawahara                          Kiyoshi Kodera
Jean-Pierre Landau                         Philippe de Fontaine Vive
J. Ayo Langley                             0. K. Matambo
Jean-Pierre Le Bouder                      Ali Bourhane
Ernest Leung                               Paulo C. Ximenes-Ferreira
Jorunn Maehlum                             Helga Jonsdottir
Moisds Naim                                Gabriel Castellanos
David Peretz                               Robert Graham-Harrison
Frank Potter                               Hubert Dean
Bernard Snoy                               Walter Rill
Wang Liansheng                             Jin Liqun
August 6, 1992


﻿4
The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA
"The World Bank," as used in this Annual  the very poor countries-those with an annual
Report, refers to the International Bank for  per capita gross national product of $610 or
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and  less (in 1990 dollars). More than forty countries
its affiliate, the International Development As-  are eligible under this criterion.
sociation (IDA). The IBRD has two other      Membership in IDA is open to all members
affiliates, the International Finance Corpora-  of the IBRD, and 142 of them have joined to
tion (IFC) and the Multilateral Investment  date. The funds used by IDA, called credits to
Guarantee Agency (MIGA). The Bank, the     distinguish them  from  IBRD  loans, come
IFC, and MIGA are sometimes referred to as  mostly in the form of subscriptions, general
the "World Bank Group."                    replenishments from IDA's more industrial-
The common objective of these institutions  ized and developed members, and transfers
is to help raise standards of living in developing  from the net earnings of the IBRD. The terms
countries by channeling financial resources to  of IDA credits, which are traditionally made
them from developed countries.             only to governments, are ten-year grace pen-
The IBRD, established in 1945, is owned by  ods, thirty-five- or forty-year maturities, and
the governments of 160 countries. The IBRD,  no interest.
whose capital is subscribed by its member    The IFC was established in 1956. Its func-
countries, finances its lending operations pri-  tion is to assist the economic development of
marily from its own borrowings in the world  less-developed countries by promoting growth
capital markets. A substantial contribution to  in the private sector of their economies and
the IBRD's resources also comes from its   helping to mobilize domestic and foreign capi-
retained earnings and the flow of repayments  tal for this purpose. Membership in the IBRD
on its loans. IBRD loans generally have a grace  is a prerequisite for membership in the IFC,
period of five years and are repayable over  which totals 146 countries. Legally and finan-
fifteen to twenty years. They are directed  cially, the IFC and the IBRD are separate
toward developing countries at more advanced  entities. The IFC has its own operating and
stages of economic and social growth. The  legal staff, but draws upon the Bank for admin-
interest rate the IBRD charges on its loans is  istrative and other services.
calculated in accordance with a guideline re-  MIGA, established in 1988, has a specialized
lated to its cost of borrowing.            mandate: to encourage equity investment and
The IBRD's charter spells out certain basic  other direct investment flows to developing
rules that govern its operations. It must lend  countries through the mitigation of noncom-
only for productive purposes and must stimu-  mercial investment barriers. To carry out this
late economic growth in the developing coun-  mandate, MIGA offers investors guarantees
tries in which it lends. It must pay due regard  against noncommercial risks; advises develop-
to the prospects of repayment. Each loan is  ing member governments on the design and
made to a government or must be guaranteed  implementation of policies, programs, and pro-
by the government concerned. The use of    cedures related to foreign investments; and
loans cannot be restricted to purchases in any  sponsors a dialogue between the international
particular member country. And the IBRD's  business community and host governments on
decisions to lend must be based on economic  investment issues. By June 30, 1992, the con-
considerations alone.                      vention establishing MIGA had been signed by
The International Development Association  115 countries; eighty-five countries had be-
was established in 1960 to provide assistance  come members of MIGA.
for the same purposes as the IBRD, but pri-  While the World Bank has traditionally fi-
marily in the poorer developing countries and  nanced all kinds of capital infrastructure, such
on terms that would bear less heavily on their  as roads and railways, telecommunications,
balance of payments than would IBRD loans.  and port and power facilities, the centerpiece
IDA's assistance, therefore, is concentrated on  of its development strategy emphasizes invest-


﻿The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA  5
ments that can directly affect the well-being of  for women, strengthen population-planning,
the masses of poor people of developing coun-  health, and nutrition services, and develop the
tries by making them more productive and by  private sector. The Bank's support of eco-
integrating them as active partners in the de-  nomic restructuring in many of its borrowing
velopment process.                        member countries is based on the knowledge
The Bank's efforts to reduce poverty cut  that the precondition for restoring economic
across sectoral lines and include investments  growth-the cornerstone of successful devel-
to improve education, ensure environmental  opment and poverty reduction-is structural
sustainability, expand economic opportunities  adjustment.


﻿6
Contents
Letter of Transmittal  3
The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA 4
Glossary  11
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992 15
Section One. The Executive Board  23
Oversight of Financial and Operating Programs  23
Operations Evaluation; Project Implementation and Supervision 24
Review of Policy Proposals 24
Development Committee 27
Committees of the Executive Directors  28
Joint Audit Committee 28
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget Practices  29
Committee on Personnel Policy Issues  29
Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters  30
Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures 30
Executive Directors' Steering Committee  30
Section Two. The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective  31
Major Industrial Countries  32
Developing Countries  33
Progress of the Debt Strategy  36
Net Financial Flows and Access to Capital Markets  39
Primary-commodity Market Conditions 41
Trends in World Trade 42
The Environment 44
Section Three. The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992  46
Implementing the Bank's Poverty-reduction Strategy  46
Poverty assessments 46
Country-specific strategies 47
Progress in improving data bases 49
Guiding Bank staff 49
Improving aid coordination 50
Human-resource Development 50
Education 50
Population, health, and nutrition 51
Women in development 53
The Environment 55
Private-sector Development  60
Debt and Adjustment  64
Section Four. World Bank Finances 70
IBRD Finances 70
Financial Policies  70


﻿Contents  7
Loans 70
Disbursements 70
Lending rate 70
Loans in nonaccrual status 70
Provisioning 71
Liquid-assets Management 71
Borrowings and Liability Management 71
Medium-term and long-term (MLT) funding 71
Short-term funding 73
Capital 74
Reserves 74
IDA Finances 74
IDA's commitment authority 74
IDA's commitment fee 74
Negotiations on a tenth replenishment 75
Cofinancing 75
Disbursements, by Source of Supply  80
Section Five. World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID 89
Operations Evaluation  89
Completion reports  89
Audits 89
Studies 89
Dissemination of findings  90
The Evaluation Capability Development Program 90
Other activities  90
Internal Auditing  90
Economic Development Institute 91
Training activities  91
Institution building  92
Training materials  92
Scholarship programs  92
Cofinancing 92
Research at the World Bank 93
Poverty reduction  93
Human-resource development  94
The environment  94
Natural resources  94
Macroeconomic issues and management 94
Infrastructure and urban development  95
Technical Assistance  95
Interagency Cooperation  97
Relations with nongovernmental organizations  98
Cooperation with the European Community and with the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) 101
Cooperation with the regional development banks  101
Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund 102
Cooperation on agricultural research  102
Personnel and Administration  103
International Finance Corporation  105
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency  107
Guarantee program 107
Promotional and advisory services 108
Member relations 108
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes  108


﻿8   Contents
Section Six. 1992 Regional Perspectives  111
Africa 111
Mixed Economic Performance   112
Special Program of Assistance  115
Reducing Poverty, Developing the Social Sectors  116
Population and health  116
Education  116
Poverty reduction  117
Poverty-conscious structural-adjustment programs  117
Social-action programs aimed at the poor during adjustment  117
Assistance to governments to increase their capacity to assess and
monitor poverty  118
Work on food-security issues  118
Gender-responsive development  119
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992  119
East Asia and Pacific 120
East Asia's Success: Private/Public Partnership  120
Prosperity Not Shared by All  122
Socialist Economies in Transition  124
Making Growth Sustainable  125
Partnership for Better Environment  126
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992 127
South Asia  128
Regional Issues in Perspective  128
Selected Country Highlights  129
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992  133
Europe and Central Asia 135
Transition to a Market Economy  135
Protecting the Vulnerable during Transition  138
Addressing Environmental Concerns  139
Reform Begins in the Former Soviet Union  139
Reform in Turkey 141
Graduation in Cyprus  142
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992  142
Latin America and the Caribbean  143
Policy Adjustments during 1991-92  144
New Programs of Adjustment  146
Privatization and Entry  146
Activities of the Bank, Fiscal 1992  147
Cooperation and cofinancing  149
Middle East and North Africa  150
Recent Economic Developments 150
Long-term Development Challenges  153
World Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992  155
Section Seven. Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1992  157
Financial Statements of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  197
Balance Sheets  198
Statements of Income  200
Statements of Changes in Retained Earnings  200
Statements of Changes in Cumulative Translation Adjustment  200
Statements of Cash Flows  201
Summary Statement of Loans  202
Summary Statement of Borrowings  205


﻿Contents  9
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power  207
Notes to Financial Statements  211
Report of Independent Accountants  217
Financial Statements of International Development Association, the Special Fund Administered by
IDA, and the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries Administered by IDA 219
Statements of Development Resources  220
Statements of Changes in Accumulated Surplus and Grants  221
Statements of Cash Flows  221
Summary Statement of Development Credits  222
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions  225
Notes to Financial Statements  228
Report of Independent Accountants  232
IBRD/IDA Appendices
1    Governors and Alternates of the World Bank  234
2    Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank and Their Voting Power 237
3    Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank  239
4    Offices of the World Bank  242
5    Development Committee Communiqu6s, Fiscal 1992 248
Index 256
Text Tables
Operational and Financial Overview, Fiscal 1988-92  17
World Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal 1992 20
1-1   Aid Coordination Group Meetings Chaired by the World Bank in Fiscal 1992  26
2-1   G-7 Countries: Output, Inflation, Investment, and Unemployment, 1981-91  32
2-2   Current-account Balances of the G-7 Countries, 1984-91  33
2-3   Low- and Middle-income Economies: Growth of GDP and GDP Per Capita,
1981-91  36
2-4   Low- and Middle-income Economies: Long-term Debt and Debt Service, Selected Years,
1986-91  38
2-5   Long-term Financial Flows to Low- and Middle-income Economies, 1982-91  40
2-6   Commodity Prices, 1984-91  41
2-7   Selected Trade-performance Indicators, 1965-91  43
3-1   Poverty Assessments, Completed and Scheduled  47
4-1   IBRD Borrowings, Fiscal Year 1992  72
4-2   IBRD Borrowings, after Swaps, Fiscal Year 1992  73
4-3   World Bank Cofinancing Operations, by Region, Fiscal Years 1991-92  76
4-4   IBRD and IDA Foreign and Local Disbursements, by Source of Supply  77
4-5   IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Source of Supply  77
4-6   IBRD and IDA Payments to Suppliers in Active Borrowing Countries for Foreign and
Local Procurement in Fiscal 1992  78
4-7   IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement  81
4-8   IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement, by
Description of Goods, Fiscal 1992  84
4-9   IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Description of Goods, Fiscal 1990-92  87
5-1   Distribution of EDI's Training Program and Participants, Fiscal 1992  91
5-2   Regional and Sectoral Patterns in World Bank-NGO Operational Collaboration, Fiscal
1974-92  99
5-3   NGO-associated Projects by Sector, Fiscal 1992  99
5-4   World Bank Budget by Expense Category and Work Program,
Fiscal Years 1990-93  104


﻿10   Contents
6-1   Africa: 1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that Borrowed during Fiscal
Years 1990-92  111
6-2   Lending to Borrowers in Africa, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1983-92  112
6-3   Net Transfers to Africa  117
6-4   East Asia and Pacific: 1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that Borrowed
during Fiscal Years 1990-92  120
6-5   Lending to Borrowers in East Asia and Pacific, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1983-92  122
6-6   Net Transfers to East Asia and Pacific  126
6-7   South Asia: 1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that Borrowed during
Fiscal Years 1990-92  128
6-8   Lending to Borrowers in South Asia, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1983-92  130
6-9   Net Transfers to South Asia 132
6-10 Europe and Central Asia: 1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that
Borrowed during Fiscal Years 1990-92  135
6-11 Lending to Borrowers in Europe and Central Asia, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1983-92  136
6-12 Net Transfers to Europe and Central Asia  141
6-13 Latin America and the Caribbean: 1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that
Borrowed during Fiscal Years 1990-92  143
6-14 Lending to Borrowers in Latin America and the Caribbean, by Sector, Fiscal Years
1983-92  144
6-15 Net Transfers to Latin America and the Caribbean  149
6-16 Middle East and North Africa: 1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that
Borrowed during Fiscal Years 1990-92  150
6-17 Lending to Borrowers in Middle East and North Africa, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1983-92  152
6-18 Human-resource Indicators, Middle East and North Africa, 1970-90  154
6-19 Water Scarcity in Selected Middle East and North African Countries  155
6-20 Net Transfers to Middle East and North Africa  156
7-1   Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1992, by Region  176
7-2   Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1992, by Sector  178
7-3   Statement of IBRD Loans Approved during Fiscal Year 1992  184
7-4   Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1992  188
7-5   Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1990-92  193
7-6   IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and Region, June 30,
1992 194
Boxes
The Challenge of Transition  16
3-1   Commitments to Social-sector and Environmental Lending  51
3-2   World Bank Activities on AIDS  53
3-3   Forestry Policy  57
3-4   Policies Guiding Financial-sector Operations  63
3-5   Checklist of Recommendations for Privatizing Governments  65
6-1   AGETIP-A Promising New Weapon in the Fight against Poverty  118
6-2   Pacific Island Member Countries 123
6-3   New Dimensions in Regional Integration  148
Text Figures
IBRD and IDA Lending to the Poorest Countries, Fiscal 1983-92  19
2-1   Nominal Six-month LIBOR Rates, 1984-91  34
2-2   Real Six-month LIBOR Rates, 1984-91  34
6-1   Growth in East Asia and Pacific, 1980-91  121


﻿11
Glossary
CFA zone The CFA zone refers to the two    committee currently consists of twenty-two
groups of western and central African coun-  members, generally Ministers of Finance, ap-
tries whose (separate and different) currencies  pointed for periods of two years by one of the
are called by the same name-the CFA franc  countries or a group of countries that desig-
(CFAF). The CFAF in both groups is freely  nates a member of the Bank's or the Interna-
convertible with the French franc, at the same  tional Monetary Fund's board of executive
fixed parity. Two subregional central banks are  directors. The committee is required to advise
responsible for international payments and do-  and report to the boards of governors of the
mestic monetary and credit policy for their  two institutions on all aspects of the broad
respective members. The members of the Cen-  question of the transfer of real resources to
tral Bank of Western African States (BCEAO)  developing countries and to make suggestions
are Benin, Burkina Faso, C6te d'lvoire, Mali,  for their implementation.
Niger, Senegal, and Togo; these countries
comprise the West African Monetary Union.  (ESAF) The objectives,
The members of the Bank of Central African  procedural features of the ESAF parallel those
States (BEAC) are Cameroon, Central African  of the IMF's structural-adjustment facility
Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea,  (SAP), established in March 1986 to provide
and Gabon. International payments for both  balance-of-payments assistance on conces-
groups are conducted in the Paris foreign-  sional terms to low-income developing coun-
exchange market, while international reserves  tries The ESAF was established in December
are kept with, and temporary balance-of-   1987 and is financed from SAF resources and
payments financing is provided by, the two  grant contributions. Differences between the
central banks' Operations Accounts with the  SAP and the ESAF relate largely to the mon-
French Treasury.                           itoring and the strength of the programs and
Committee of the Whole The Committee of the  access to, and funding of, the facilities. Adjust-
Whole is a committee made up of all executive  ment measures supported by the ESAF are
directors; it has traditionally served as a forum  expected to be particularly ambitious, with
in which preliminary discussion of issues takes  a view to fostering growth and achieving a
place before they are taken up by the executive  substantial strengthening of the balance-of-
board. It is also the forum in which the exec-  payments position within a three-year period.
utive directors act as a preparatory body for  Euromarket A general term for the interna-
the work of the Development Committee.     tional capital markets for offshore transactions
Currency swaps Currency swaps are used by  that encompass various instruments such as
the Bank as a liability-management tool and  Eurobonds, Eurocredits, and Euro-interbank
essentially involve an exchange of a stream of  deposits.
principal and interest payments in one cur-  European Monetary System  An arrangement,
rency for a stream in another currency. The  introduced in March 1979, for economic and
Bank uses currency swaps to obtain borrow-  monetary cooperation among the member na-
ings in the ultimately desired "target" cur-  tions of the European Community. Its most
rency at below cost of a market borrowing in  prominent feature is the Exchange-Rate Mech-
that currency.                             anism for the stabilization of participating
Development Committee This committee is    member countries' exchange rates within pre-
known formally as the Joint Ministerial Com-  determined bands.
mittee of the Boards of Governors of the World  Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS)
Bank and the International Monetary Fund on  The FIAS was established in 1986 by the
the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing  International Finance Corporation. It is now
Countries. Established in October 1974, the  jointly operated by the IPC, the Multilateral


﻿12   GLossary
Investment Guarantee Agency, and the World  final decision. The IDA deputies meet as often
Bank. The FIAS advises developing countries,  as necessary to discuss IDA replenishments
at the request of their governments, on how to  and related matters.
attract productive foreign direct investment.  Interim Committee  This committee, known
After studying the investment climate in a  formally as the Interim  Committee of the
country, the FIAS helps officials or agencies  Boards of Governors on the International
responsible for foreign investment define their  Monetary System, was established in October
objectives and develop the policies, regula-  1974 to advise the board of governors of the
tions, and institutions needed to encourage  International Monetary Fund (IMF) on super-
foreign direct investment that will be beneficial  vising the management and adaptation of the
to the country. The FIAS also conducts re-  international monetary system, as well as deal-
search on issues raised in the course of its  ing with disturbances that might threaten the
advisory work and organizes seminars and   system. The committee, whose members are
conferences that bring together officials, for-  governors of the IMF, government ministers,
eign investors, and experts to discuss issues  or others of comparable rank, reflects the
related to foreign investment.             composition of the IMF's executive board:
G-5 countries France, Germany, Japan, the  Each member country that appoints, and each
United Kingdom, and the United States.     group that elects, an executive director ap-
G-7 countries Canada, France, Germany, It-  points a member of the committee, which
aly, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the    currently has twenty-two members.
United States.                             Leasing legislation Leasing is a form of capi-
G-24  The inner circle of the Group of 77  tal-investment financing used primarily for
(G-77) that conducts many negotiations on  capital equipment, involving a contractual
behalf of developing countries at the United  agreement between two major parties: the
Nations. The G-77 is the group of developing  owner and the user of the equipment. Varia-
countries at the U.N. that attended the first  tions in the contract may allow the user, or
meeting of the United Nations Conference on  lessee, to acquire ownership of the equipment
Trade and Development in 1964. The G-24 is  from the initial owner, or lessor. Leasing can
not to be confused with the G-24 countries,  be an attractive alternative source of equip-
which is what some call the members of the  ment financing because of the flexibility of the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  lease contract. Leasing legislation involves the
Development (OECD).                        regulations and laws governing the leasing in-
Global Programme on AIDS (GPA) The GPA     dustry.
was begun in 1987 under sponsorship of the  Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS)
World Health Organization to coordinate re-  The LSMS was established by the Bank in
search, develop tools, and implement strate-  1980 to explore ways of improving the type and
gies to control AIDS. In fiscal 1989, the pro-  quality of household data collected by statisti-
gram received a special grant of $1 million from  cal offices in developing countries. Its goal is
the Bank to support operational research. The  to sponsor increased use of household data as
Bank has since continued its support at the  a basis for policymaking. Specifically, the
same level.                                LSMS is working to develop new methods to
monitor progress in raising living standards, to
Golden shares The term comes from the Brit-  identify the consequences for households of
ish privatization experience and refers to a  past and proposed government policies, and to
stipulation, in a general privatization law or in  improve communications between survey stat-
a particular sales agreement, that the govern-  isticians, analysts, and policymakers.
ment retains one nonvoting share that gives it
the power to reject subsequent sale or major  Low-income countries  Are those countries
capital or physical restructuring of the firm.  with a GNP per capita of $610 or less as of
1990.
IDA deputies Representatives of IDA donor
countries at the negotiations on replenishments  Middle-income countries Are those countries
of IDA funds. Each of IDA's donor countries  with a GNP per capita of more than $610 but
appoints a deputy, who is usually a top-level  less than $7,620 as of 1990.
civil servant from the country's Ministry of  Montreal Protocol The Montreal Protocol on
Finance, Foreign Affairs, or from its bilateral  Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (a
aid agency. The replenishment agreements ne-  protocol to the Vienna Convention of 1985),
gotiated among the deputies are presented to  adopted in 1987, calls for a 50 percent reduc-
the executive directors of IDA, who, in turn,  tion in the consumption of chemicals that de-
submit a report to the board of governors for  plete the Earth's ozone layer by the year 1999.


﻿Glossary  13
In June 1990, environment ministers from   Rights-accumulation program  This program of
ninety-three countries agreed at a meeting in  the International Monetary Fund (IMF) per-
London to phase out both the production and  mits a member country with protracted arrears
use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and several  to the IMF to establish a track record of
other chlorine-based and bromine-based chem-  performance related to policy implementation
icals by the end of the century.           and payments. Members can earn rights
Negative-pledge clause Negative-pledge clauses  toward future financing from the IMF through
are concerned with the granting of security  the implementation of a comprehensive eco-
interests by a borrower over its assets to its  nomic program  with macroeconomic and
creditors. By the terms of such a clause, the  structural-policy standards associated with
borrower agrees with a creditor or group of  programs supported by extended and en-
creditors to restrictions on its granting, or  hanced structural-adjustment facilities. En-
otherwise permitting to exist, security interests  cashment of accumulated rights can take place
in favor of other creditors. Negative-pledge  after clearance of arrears. The Bank adopted a
clauses are usually standard in Bank loan doc-  similar program  in fiscal 1991. Under the
uments. They may be waived on a case-by-   Bank's program, a country in arrears can es-
case basis, however.                       tablish a track record on adjustment measures
over a preclearance performance period
Nonsovereign borrower All borrowers other  (which may last several years). During the
than governments. Even institutions in the  period, the Bank would develop and process
public sector that borrow with government  loans, but would not sign them, make them
guarantees of repayment are nonsovereign bor-  effective, or disburse any funds against them.
rowers.                                    After the performance period is over, and
Paris Club The Paris Club is the name given to  following clearance of arrears, the country
the ad hoc meetings of creditor governments  would receive disbursements on loans ap-
that, since 1956, have arranged, when neces-  proved during the performance period, as well
sary, for the renegotiation of debt owed to  as on loans that had been suspended.
official creditors or guaranteed by them.
(Debts to commercial banks are renegotiated  ferences) were developed by the United Na-
with committees of the banks involved.) The  tions Development Programme (which also
World Bank is not a member of the Paris Club.  chairs them) to act rather like consultative-
Policy-framework paper (PFP)   A  policy-  group meetings for the least-developed coun-
framework paper is a three-year comprehen-  tries in particular. The aim is to bring together
sive report prepared by national authorities  all the parties involved in technical cooper-
with the assistance of the staffs of the Bank  ation with a particular country. As in the case
and the IMF. It identifies the sources of a  of consultative-group meetings, the objective
country's problems, describes the proposed  is to harmonize the activities of different do-
remedies, and provides estimates of the asso-  nors and implementing agencies and to ascer-
ciated financing requirements and the role of  tam what funds are available.
the major aid agencies.                    Social-action  programs  Social-action  pro-
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) The PPF  grams and social funds consist of multisectoral
was created in 1975 by the Bank to help    operations that mobilize several sources of
overcome weaknesses in borrowers' capacity  financing to fund special interventions and
to complete project preparation and to support  targeted projects seeking to alleviate the social
the entities responsible for preparing or carry-  costs of adjustment, as well as poverty in
ing out the projects. Under the facility, the  general. The project components that typically
Bank can advance up to $1.5 million per proj-  get financed include public works, severance
ect either to meet gaps in project preparation  payments, retraining, and schemes in nutri-
or to assist in institutional strengthening so that  tion, primary health, and primary education.
project implementation can begin before the  While the objectives and project content of
loan or credit becomes effective.          social-action programs and social funds are
Punta del Este Declaration  The declaration  similar, they differ in their institutional set-up.
adopted by ministers of the GATT member    Social funds finance small, demand-driven
countries at their meeting of September 15-20,  subprojects and often bypass existing bureau-
1986, in Punta del Este, Uruguay, on the   cratic systems and procedures; funding com-
occasion of the special session of the GATT  mitments are often based on the evaluation of
contracting parties. The declaration officially  project proposals prepared according to prede-
launched the latest round of multilateral trade  termined selection criteria. Social-action pro-
negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round.  gram subprojects are typically appraised by


﻿14   Glossary
the World Bank. Whereas social funds are   G-5 countries (France, Germany, Japan, the
most often parastatal quasi-financial institu-  United Kingdom, and the United States). On
tions, social-action programs generally cover a  June 30, 1992, one SDR was worth $1.43117. A
broader array of institutional arrangements,  total of SDR21.4 billion had been issued by the
such as quasi-autonomous project units or in-  Fund as of June 30, 1992.
tegration into sectoral ministries.        Technical Cooperation Agreement The agree-
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) pro-  ment, approved in October 1991, between the
gram  This program, launched in 1987 as a  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
joint undertaking of the World Bank, the Afri-  Bank, the IFC, and MIGA provided the frame-
can Development Bank, and the United       work for technical cooperation between the
Nations Development Programme, has the ob-  Bank Group and the Soviet Union and its
jective of helping African governments incor-  republics during the transitional period prior to
porate social concerns into their economic-  membership. Technical cooperation, provided
reform programs and long-term development  on   a  grant basis, was   funded  by  a
plans. The SDA program provides assistance  $30 million transfer from the IBRD's fiscal
at both regional and country levels in four  1991 net income. Only Belarus, Kazakhstan,
areas: improving management of macroeco-   Kyrghyzstan, and the Russian Federation
nomic and sectoral policy, formulating social-  signed  technical cooperation  agreements.
action programs for poor and vulnerable    There are no commitments under the program
groups, strengthening national statistical serv-  beyond fiscal 1992.
ices for better policy and program design, and  Toronto terms Toronto terms refer to a menu
building up institutional capacity. Thirty Afri-  of options that can be chosen to reduce official
can countries are now taking part in the pro-  debt in low-income, debt-distressed countries.
gram.                                      The terms, agreed upon in September 1988
Social fund (See social-action programs.)  (following agreement in principle at the eco-
SPA-eligible country Country eligibility in the  nomic summit held in Toronto three months
Special Program of Assistance (SPA) is deter-  earlier), include reduced interest, very long
mined on the basis of poverty (countries can-  grace and repayment periods (at commercial
not be eligible for IBRD loans), indebtedness  rates), or partial write-offs of debt-service oh-
(countries have to have projected debt-service  ligations during the consolidation period (with
ratios of 30 percent or more in the Special  the rest rescheduled at commercial rates and
Program of Assistance (SPA)), and efforts to  shorter maturities), or a combination of these
adjust (countries have to be currently imple-  options.
menting a policy-reform program that is en-  Trinidad terms Trinidad terms represent a
dorsed and normally supported by the Bank  deepening (over Toronto terms) of concession-
and the International Monetary Fund, and   ality in existing debt-relief measures. The pro-
agreement has to be reached on a policy-   posal by John Major. then United Kingdom
framework paper).                          Chancellor of the Exchequer, at the Common-
Special drawing rights (SDRs) The special  wealth Finance Ministers' Conference in Sep-
drawing right is a reserve asset created in 1968  tember 1990, would reduce the stock of out-
by the International Monetary Fund for use by  standing debt owed to Paris Club creditors by
its members and certain prescribed institu-  two thirds. An important aspect of the pro-
tions, among which are multilateral develop-  posed terms is that they would apply to the
ment banks and the Bank for International  entire stock of eligible debt rather than to the
Settlements. Its value is calculated daily by  maturities falling due within a near-term con-
using a weighted basket of the currencies of the  solidation period.


﻿15
Overview of World Bank Activities
in Fiscal 1992
In fiscal 1992, the World Bank moved closer  a consensus is emerging on the priority devel-
to the realization of a dream shared forty-eight  opment objectives for the 1990s. They are the
years ago by the participants in the June 1944  achievement of sustainable economic growth
Bretton Woods Conference-of an institution  and the reduction of poverty; actions to protect
that would promote the economic development  the environment are seen as being essential to
of the unified family of nations-when the  the achievement of both objectives.
Bank's governors approved resolutions that   There is also a growing convergence of
provided for membership in the institution of  views on approaches as well as objectives:
all fifteen of the Soviet Union's former repub-  greater reliance on markets and a strong, but
lics. Their action was an important step in  more limited role for government, particularly
making the vision of Bretton Woods a reality.  focused on the policy framework and on envi-
The efforts of the fifteen republics to transform  ronmental and social responsibilities.
their societies and economies have many risks.  In recent years, the World Bank has articu-
Their success or failure will have important  lated its strategies for reducing poverty, pro-
consequences for the entire world. Yet, the  moting private-sector development, and con-
resources at their disposal are few. The time  tributing to the global effort to safeguard the
they have is short. There is an urgency in  environment. These strategies shaped the
bringing all possible assistance to bear on this  Bank's activities during the past year and are
historic undertaking.                      expected to continue to do so in the years
The dissolution of the former Soviet Union  ahead.
into independent, sovereign states and the   The Bank is now placing greater attention on
progress towards peace in several of the   concrete issues of implementation: How can
Bank's regions have led to a sharp expansion  accelerated growth, poverty reduction, and
in the demand for Bank services (see accom-  environmental strategies best be applied in
panying box). Membership in the Bank of    specific country programs? How can these
Latvia, Lithuania, and eleven other republics  objectives and strategies best be integrated
of the former Soviet Union-an occurrence   into policies and investments in particular sec-
that is likely to take place before the end of  tors? In the different situations of individual
calendar year 1992-would bring Bank mem-   countries, how should practical complementar-
bership to 173. Bank membership applications  ity between private-sector activity and public-
submitted by Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia,  sector intervention he achieved? The emphasis
and Slovenia are also under consideration.  is thus on pursuing these strategies across all
Eight borrowing countries that joined the  relevant programs, rather than through nar-
Bank during the fiscal 1991-92 period-Alba-  rowly focused special programs. Country cir-
nia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Mar-  cumstances dictate the particular sectoral dis-
shall Islands, Mongolia, Namibia, and the  tribution of lending and the private/public
Russian Federation-are in a start-up phase,  sector mix that are the most effective in reduc-
which requires incremental resources, particu-  ing poverty. This means that-with a few oh-
larly for the preparation of lending activities  vious exceptions, such as recent increased
and economic and sector work. Lending      financing for human-resource development
programs-in El Salvador, Iran, Nicaragua,  and the environment-the pursuit of these oh-
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Romania, Sierra    jectives and strategies does not neatly translate
Leone, and Zambia-have been reactivated.   into trends for lending to individual sectors.
The potential also exists for resumption of  The Bank's most recent annual report on its
lending in the near future to Afghanistan, Gua-  portfolio of operations under implementation,
temala, Lebanon, South Africa, and Viet Nam,  covering fiscal 1991, confirmed that the port-
and for initial lending to Cambodia.       folio continues to be well oriented toward the
The increased demand for the Bank's lend-  Bank's primary missions: poverty reduction,
ing and advisory services comes at a time when  sustainable growth, and an active response to


﻿16    Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992
The Challenge of Transition
Fifteen new countries have come into being in  forts for all republics so that the Bank may begin
place of the former Soviet Union. All are ex-  lending for reform programs as soon as condi-
pected to become members of the Bank in 1992.  tions permit.
The simultaneous creation of new political and  Progress was made in all areas. Implementa-
economic systems in countries once dependent  tion of the technical-assistance program is well
upon a powerful center is posing wrenching prob-  advanced. Economic reports are being prepared
lems of transition for the authorities. Preparing  for nine countries and should be completed for all
programs for fifteen new members in such urgent  fifteen in fiscal 1993. Preparatory work is also
need of help is an equally unprecedented task for  under way to initiate lending operations in sev-
the Bank.                                    eral new members later in 1992.
For the authorities, the task of transition is  During fiscal 1992, the Bank assisted the coun-
complicated by the disintegration of the old order  tries with some of the critical tasks in the transi-
and the weakness of public institutions in creat-  tion and began to identify some of the major
ing a new one. Stabilization programs must be  elements of Bank assistance strategies. These
designed and implemented even as central banks  will be developed for each country and comple-
and new systems of taxation are put into place.  mented with an assessment of financing needs.
Institutions to design and implement fiscal policy  The general elements include (a) key aspects of
are new and must deal with the absence of    systemic reform, especially trade and price liber-
large transfers that occurred within the former  alization, private-sector development, and priva-
Soviet Union. The few privatization agencies that  tization; (b) sector-specific reforms, covering in
exist are mostly understaffed and must cope with  particular the financial, food, energy, transport,
privatization programs of an unprecedented   and housing sectors; (c) improvements in policies
scale. However, the pressure for reform is great:  and programs related to social safety nets; and (d)
Production disruptions could lead to a further fall  human-resource development, including training
in output in 1992 in excess of 10 percent. The  and institutional development.
need for international assistance is thus large and  To develop these programs, the Bank has in-
immediate.                                   tiated a rapid build-up of the requisite staff, after
With special funding approved by the execu-  drawing up rules of redeployment to ensure the
tive board, the Bank undertook three stages of  continued quality of other Bank programs. All of
activities in fiscal 1992 to help ease the transition  the internal redeployment was completed by the
by the republics of the former Soviet Union to  end of the fiscal year; most of the external
market-oriented economies:                   recruitment is expected to have been completed
* the design, launching, and implementation of  before the end of 1992. To serve better the needs
a $30 million program of technical assistance for  of the anticipated members, four new Country
the four states that signed the Technical Cooper-  Operations Divisions were created as of April 1,
ation Agreement (Russian Federation, Belarus,  1992. However, more decentralization will not
Kazakhstan, and Kyrghyzstan);                diminish communication among staff: Manage-
* the completion of reconnaissance work in  ment will ensure that the insights and experiences
the other eleven states and the acceleration of  from each country are quickly shared and readily
membership activities in all fifteen; and    applied.
* the design of economic and sector work
programs and intensive development-training ef-
environmental concerns. In particular, poverty  tions. The main constraints on ttmely and
reduction, including human-resource develop-    effective implementation continued to be mnad-
ment, was a primary objective for about 20      equate country macroeconomic policies and
percent of the portfolio under implementation   strategies, frequently resulting in insufficient
in terms of commitments ($13.8 billion in 307   financial-resource allocation to projects. Coun-
projects). Environmental concerns were also     tries that sustained their commitments to struc-
addressed in an increasing number of opera-     tural and economic reforms improved their
tions. About 80 percent of the portfolio was    implementation performance significantly.
judged to be performing satisfactorily, despite   The effective implementation of the Bank's
the difficult global and domestic macroeco-     portfolio is vital to the growth prospects of the
nomic environments for implementation. How- institution's borrowing countries. The advice
ever, among projects in their fourth and fifth  the Bank provides through the supervision of
year of implementation, 30 percent had major    its operations is one of the most important
problems in all regions except Asia. This dete-  forms of development assistance it offers. Suc-
rioration was largely driven by the Africa port-  cessful implementation of approved operations
folio, which reflected difficult country situa-  is as important as new annual commitments as


﻿Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992  17
Operational and Financial Overview, Fiscal 1988-92
(millions of US dollars unless otherwise noted)
Item                              1988       1989       1990       1991        1992
IBRD
Commitmentsa                     14,762      16,433     15,180     16,392     15,156
Gross disbursementsa              11,636     11,310     13,859     11,431      11,666
Net disbursementsa                3.428       1.921      5.717      2.090      1.818
Ne,% mediumi to lne-icrm
nw ndicat  of th Bank  devl n e
14e-i incomc~                      I  II!IN'4           I*-'1.                IJ'-44
I t, rc d r                   41 h3                                        i-.-S 1f.h2 I~J  2I  1 4s
Sc.iitur lend   ing       hie 1i1 4- b  y .4
ke% raevit
Salendar  hiyear 1 992
lntemt wcrae e   r    o.n    li of the
Lbquid  rrao pervnr is the 4rn   i
Bank se,tff.n theannulrpron mlmna
tomioadiunip e.4ri                           4 sin o  .td  h. Ba'n  r
sor ce  aIot   to  supervision     I re gi ons
aNi johmot4e tors, ha411d i a-.2s                               4 s4 i4.4gi
cantl. Neerhles it added som concerns.
an indicator of the Bank's development effec-  oration in portfolio performance and to mini-
tiveness. The priority ofthis area ofthe Bank's  mize future risk that projects will not achieve
activity was underscored during the year by  their original objectives.
the appointment of a high-level task force to  The Bank is also striving to ensure that the
review and make recommendations for im-     unfinished agenda of the 1980s is carried
proving the institution's portfolio-management  through, where appropriate, while the prior-
and evaluation process. The task force's report  ities for the 1990s are being addressed. In some
is scheduled to be completed by the end of  instances, the complementarities are obvious:
calendar year 1992.                         Female education, for example, promotes the
Implementation is the responsibility of the  interests of women in development and en-
borrower; supervision is the responsibility of  hances human development more broadly. In
Bank staff. The annual report on implementa-  other instances, the links and tradeoffs are
tion  and  supervision  noted  that Bank re-  more complex and cannot be resolved except
sources allocated to supervision in all regions  in concrete country programs.
and to most sectors had increased signifi-    The number and complexity of objectives
cantly. Nevertheless, it added, some concerns  and policies that are crucial to development
remained about (a) the adequacy of supervi-  pose new challenges in the design and imple-
sion resources, in particular for such sectors as  mentation of programs. They are also far more
population, health, and nutrition, as well as  demanding on Bank resources and staff. De-
for projects with  environmental impacts,   signing a country strategy for agriculture, for
where lending has expanded very rapidly and  example, is now much more complex and must
the ratio of consultants over staff resources has  go beyond "traditional" technical and eco-
increased: and (b) the adequacy of technical  nomic concerns to focus on strengthening the
skill inputs. Other areas of concern include  roles of the private sector and women, protect-
the supervision of complex projects (such as  ing the environment, enhancing agriculture's
sector-investment loans and loans that com-  role in combating poverty within and beyond
bine policy and investment components) and  the sector, and addressing links to trade and
the management of trust-funded and local con-  other economywide policies.
sultants for supervision. These issues are to be  In fiscal 1992, the Bank's longstanding com-
reviewed further as part of the fiscal 1992-93  mitment to the reduction of poverty was rein-
implementation and supervision action plan,  forced when its president, Lewis  . PreSton,
which is intended to forestall a further deteri-  stated that sustainable poverty reduction was


﻿18   Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992
the "overarching objective" of the institution.  agreed that the GEF should be available as the
That statement formed part of the preface to  funding mechanism for the conventions on
the Bank's Poverty Reduction Handbook,    climate change and biodiversity. In subsequent
which surveys Bank experience in poverty-  negotiations, governments designated the GEF
reduction activities and provides guidance to  for now as the financial mechanism for both
Bank operational task managers about "good-  conventions, which were signed by more than
practice" operational approaches. In addition  150 countries at UNCED in June 1992. A final
to the Handbook, an operational directive on  decision will be made by the respective con-
poverty reduction, which summarizes Bank  ferences of the parties once the conventions
procedures and guidelines for operations in  have been ratified by the requisite number of
poverty reduction, was issued. The handbook  countries and have entered into force.
and the directive both benefited from a far-  The Bank's executive directors also gave
ranging review and discussion by members of  their approval during the year to a continuation
the executive board.                      of the institution's ability to finance debt-
During the year, the Bank published World  reduction and debt-service reduction (DDSR)
Development Report 1992, its intellectual con-  operations. The DDSR program enables the
tribution to the June 1992 United Nations  Bank to extend financing and/or negative-
Conference on Environment and Development  pledge waivers for operations that lead to a
(UNCED). That report, which explored the  reduction in member countries' debt or debt-
links between economic development and the  service obligations to their commercial-bank
environment, concluded that continued, even  creditors. A waiver of its negative-pledge
accelerated, economic and human develop-  clause to Nigeria was the only debt-service
ment is sustainable and can be consistent with  operation mounted by the Bank in fiscal 1992.
improving environmental conditions-if major  The directors also agreed to extend the op-
policy, program, and institutional shifts, ac-  erations of the Debt Reduction Facility for
companied by adequate financing, take place.  IDA-only Countries, a mechanism established
World Development Report 1992 called for  in 1990 to ease the burden of commercial
accelerating programs for reducing poverty,  external debt owed by the poorest developing
removing distortions that encourage wasteful  countries. A total of seventeen severely in-
use of energy and natural resources, clarifying  debted, low-income countries have expressed
property rights to encourage people and com-  an interest in gaining access to the resources of
munities to manage resources better, and ex-  the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only
panding programs for education (especially for  Countries. Two debt-reduction operations, in
girls), family-planning services, sanitation and  Mozambique and Niger, have been completed,
clean water, and agricultural extension, credit,  and it is expected that three others, for Bolivia,
and research. The report described targeted  Guyana, and Uganda, will be brought to the
measures that can bring dramatic improve-  executive directors for their approval by the
ments in environmental quality at modest cost  end of calendar year 1992.
in investment and economic efficiency. To   Work began in fiscal 1992 on the preparation
implement them, the study says, will require  of private-sector assessments. Preparation of
overcoming the power of vested interests,  assessments was one of a series of specific
building strong institutions, improving knowl-  actions agreed upon in fiscal 1991 to reinforce
edge, encouraging more participatory decision-  implementation of the Bank's private-sector
making, and building a partnership of effort  development action plan (the others included
between industrial and developing countries.  enhanced cooperation among members of the
Progress continued in integrating environ-  Bank Group and expansion of research on
mental concerns into the Bank's operations:  private-sector development issues). Assess-
Almost 30 percent of projects approved in  ments contribute to the formulation of proac-
fiscal 1992 were either freestanding environ-  tive Bank Group private-sector development
mental projects or had some environmental  strategies as part of overall country-assistance
components. Agreement was also reached dur-  strategies and provide a basis for the Bank's
ing the year on the principles for a restructur-  country-policy dialogue. They identify priority
ing of the Global Environment Facility (GEF),  policy reforms and actions critical for private-
which was set up in 1990 to help developing  sector development. The first twenty assess-
countries solve global environmental prob-  ments are scheduled to be completed by the
lems. The principles provide for the goal of  end of fiscal 1993.
universal membership in the GEF, broader and  Total commitments by the World Bank dur-
more equitable representation, and greater  ing fiscal 1992 amounted to $21,705.7 million:
transparency and accountability in the facili-  $15,156.0 million from the IBRD and $6,549.7
ty's operations. Participating governments also  million from IDA. Commitments by the IBRD


﻿Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992  19
IBRD and IDA Lending to the Poorest Countries. Fiscal 1983-92
USS millionsi
11 83-8R 198n1n
annual average      Total 1) 10-8 2    Totlt 11.874 6
1990               1991                1Cl42
Total 9 097.2      Total 10.329 0      Total 9.896.0
,'j,iTh  I :c.: I  --.iu~ I  i e"~  r  .hTh  -.  r r .: _p *2 r  in.m,,  1  ti 1)  ir  n
were off $1,236 million from the fiscal 1991  billion in commitments to that region in fiscal
total. IDA lending increased by $256 million.  1991 temporarily depleted the Bank's pipeline
The reduction in IBRD lending resulted from  of operations. The shortfall in the Middle East
shortfalls in commitments in the South Asia,  and North Africa region was the result of the
Europe and Central Asia, and Middle East and  deferral of two large planned operations, in
North Africa regions. Commitments to the   Algeria and Egypt.
South Asia region were delayed because of the  World Bank assistance to the poorest coun-
need of the governments of India and Pakistan  tries-those with a per capita gross national
to forge a consensus on elements of their  product of $610 or less-totaled $9,896 million:
reform programs. Lending to countries in Cen-  $4,662 million from the IBRD and $5,234 mil-
tral and Eastern Europe decreased as a result  lion from IDA (see accompanying figure).
of the advancing, to June 1991 (fiscal 1991), of  Adjustment lending amounted to $5,847 mil-
five projects whose commitments totaled more  lion, or 27 percent of commitments (see table
than $1 billion. The record delivery of $3.9  on adjustment lending); in fiscal 1991, lending


﻿20    Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992
World Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal 1992
(millions of US dollars)
World Bank
financing
Country                                     Project                   IBRD    IDA     Total
Sector-adjustment loans
Argentina               Public-sector reform                         325.0     -     325.0
Bangladesh              Financial-sector adjustment (supplement)       -      2.9      2.9
Burkina Faso            Agriculture-sector adjustment                  -     28.0     28.0
C6te d'Ivoire           Financial-sector adjustment                  150.0   50.0    200.0
C6te d'Ivoire           Human-resources adjustment                   125.0   25.0    150.0
C6te d'Ivoire           Regulatory reform                             75.0   25.0    100.0
Ghana                   Financial-sector adjustment                    -     100.0   100.0
Ghana                   Agriculture-sector adjustment                  -     80.0     80.0
Honduras                Energy-sector adjustment                       -     50.6     50.6
Honduras                Energy-sector adjustment (supplement)          -     31.5     31.5
Hungary                 Enterprise restructuring/privatization       200.0   -       200.0
India                   Oil and gas sector development               150.0   -       150.0
Kenya                   Education-sector adjustment                    -     100.0   100.0
Kenya                   Export development (supplement)                -     49.2     49.2
Madagascar              Public-sector adjustment (supplement)          -       1.3     1.3
Malawi                  Agriculture-sector adjustment (supplement)     -      5.2      5.2
Mauritania              Public-enterprise sector adjustment (supplement)  -   2.5      2.5
Peru                    Trade-policy loan                            300.0     -     300.0
Peru                    Financial-sector reform                     400.0      -     400.0
Tanzania                Financial-sector adjustment                    -     200.0   200.0
Tanzania                Agriculture-sector adjustment (supplement)     -      11.3    11.3
Zambia                  Privatization/industrial reform                -    200.0    200.0
Total                                                            1,725.0   962.5  2,687.5
Structural-adjustment loans
Bangladesh              Public-resource management adjustment          -     150.0   150.0
Bolivia                 Structural adjustment                          -     40.0     40.0
Bolivia                 Structural adjustment (supplement)             -      10.4    10.4
Bulgaria                Structural adjustment I                      250.0     -     250.0
Burundi                 Structural adjustment III                      -     30.0     30.0
Ghana                   Private investment (supplement)                -      6.1      6.1
Guyana                  Structural adjustment II (supplement)          -      3.1      3.1
India                   Structural adjustment I                      250.0  250.0    500.0
Lao P.D.R.              Structural adjustment II                       -     40.0    40.0
Malawi                  Entrepreneurship development and drought
recovery                                      -    120.0   120.0
Morocco                 Structural adjustment II                     275.0     -     275.0
Mozambique              Economic recovery                              -     180.0   180.0
Nicaragua               Economic recovery                              -     110.0   110.0
Nicaragua               Economic recovery (supplement)                 -      10.3    10.3
Panama                  Economic recovery                            120.0     -     120.0
Peru                    Structural adjustment I                      300.0     -     300.0
Romania                 Structural adjustment I                      400.0     -     400.0
Senegal                 Structural adjustment IV (supplement)          -      4.7      4.7
Sierra Leone           Import support                                  -      43.1    43.1
Sierra Leone            iir.nIruenon  p imn.  upplrnnri             -      0.3      0.3
Sri Lanka               L-..non. r-IrlMurinc I'uppl1knij          -      5.2      5.2
Tunisia                 Ec...m.  nd  nan ,ll-ref,irm upp..rn   250.0     -     250.0
Uganda                  F.con.-,m. r    ri 11r-urpln1Li              -       1.6     1.6
Uganda                  Structural adjustment I                        -     125.0   125.0
Zambia                  Economic recovery (supplement)                 -      10.0    10.0
Zimbabwe                Structural adjustment I                      125.0   50.0    175.0
Total                                                            1,970.0 1,189.8  3,159.8
Grand total                                                          3,695.0 2,152.3  5,847.3
- Zero.


﻿Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992  21
for adjustment-excluding $215 million pro-  on membership in the IBRD for Armenia,
vided for debt and debt-service reduction sup-  the Azerbaijan Republic, Belarus, Bosnia-
port-was $5,671.4 million.                 Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
Net disbursements from the IBRD to mem-  Kyrghyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Micronesia,
ber countries totaled $1,818 million, down by  Moldova, Slovenia, Tadjikistan, Turkmeni-
$272 million from the fiscal 1991 total. IDA's  stan, Ukraine. and Uzbekistan.
net disbursements were up $167 million, to   Albania became a member of IDA on Octo-
$4,441 million.                            ber 15, 1991, Switzerland became a member on
The IBRD borrowed the equivalent of $11.8  May 29, 1992, and the Russian Federation
billion in the world's financial markets. Net  became a member on June 16, 1992, bringing
income was $1,645 million.                 total membership in the association to 142.
Albania joined the IBRD on October 15,   At the end of the fiscal year, action was
1991, Marshall Islands joined on May 21, 1992,  pending on membership in IDA for Armenia,
Switzerland joined on May 29, 1992, the    Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrghyzstan, Latvia,
Russian Federation joined on June 16, 1992,  Micronesia, Moldova, Namibia, Portugal, Sl-
and Estonia joined on June 23, 1992, bringing  venia, Tadjikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
the total membership in the IBRD to 160. At  and Uzbekistan.
the end of the fiscal year, action was pending


﻿22  Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1992
lir_
lik ønbr-
l<k
th nentoalMntar Fund


﻿23
Section One
The Executive Board
Under the Articles of Agreement of the   Bank's experience in individual sectors and
Bank, all the powers of the Bank are vested in  with particular policies, the board ensures that
a board of governors, consisting of one gover-  the Bank and member countries can benefit
nor from each member country. With the ex-  from the lessons of experience. Finally, through
ception of certain powers specifically reserved  its review of specific policy proposals, either
to them by the Articles of Agreement, the  annually (for example, the allocation of net
governors of the Bank have delegated their  income, staff compensation, the Bank's envi-
authority to a board of executive directors,  ronmental activities) or periodically (for exam-
which performs its duties on a full-time basis at  ple, the Bank's financial policies, lending terms,
the Bank's headquarters. This board consists  sectoral priorities), the board determines the
of twenty-two executive directors, each of  direction of Bank policies.
whom selects an alternate. As provided for in
the Articles of Agreement, five of the execu-  Oversight of Financial and
tive directors are appointed by the five mem-  Operating Programs
bers having the largest number of shares of  In fulfilling its responsibilities to oversee the
capital stock, while the rest are elected by the  Bank's financial and operating programs, the
governors representing the other member    executive directors approved a fiscal 1992 bor-
countries. Formal votes by the executive di-  rowing program for the IBRD of $10.0 billion
rectors are rare, however, since most decisions  to $11.0 billion equivalent; the program was
of the board are reached by consensus.     carried out according to agreed broad parame-
The president of the Bank is the chairman of  ters. The board reviewed, at mid year, the
the board of executive directors. The president  status of the 1992 fiscal year financial and
is also the chief of the operating staff of the  operating programs and administrative budgets
Bank and conducts, under the direction of the  and approved a small supplemental budget to
executive directors, the ordinary business of  support work in the former Soviet republics
the Bank. The executive directors are respon-  before they became members of the Bank.
sible for the conduct of the general operations  Before the end of the fiscal year, the board set
of the Bank, which includes deciding on Bank  indicative IBRD lending for fiscal 1993 at be-
policy in the framework of the Articles of  tween $18.5 billion and $21.5 billion, with an
Agreement and approving all loan and credit  indicative IDA lending program of 5.0 billion in
proposals.                                 special drawing rights (SDRs). The executive
The executive directors are also responsible  directors also met as a Committee of the Whole
for presenting to the board of governors an  to discuss development priorities and the fiscal
audit of accounts, an administrative budget,  1993 budget-policy directions, the medium-
the Annual Report on the operations and poli-  term (fiscal 1992-94) budget-planning frame-
cies of the World Bank, and any other matters  work, and the special-programs planning
that, in their judgment, require submission to  framework. They also held a colloquium to
the board of governors. Matters may be sub-  discuss informally with senior management the
mitted to the board of governors at its annual  Bank's policy directions. In order to simplify
meetings or at any time during the year.   an increasingly complex budget cycle, the
The executive board exercises its authority,  board endorsed a modified budget system that
under the Articles of Agreement, in three gen-  will take effect with the fiscal 1994 budget
eral areas. First, through its annual oversight of  cycle.
the financial and operating programs, and ad-  The board also considered the allocation of
ministrative budgets, the board determines the  fiscal 1991 net income and approved the addi-
allocation of financial and staff resources for the  tion of $250 million of net income of the IBRD
coming year. Second, through its review of  to the general reserve to achieve the IBRD's
evaluations of completed Bank projects and the  reserves target. It also allocated an additional


﻿24   The Executive Board
$200 million to allow for a waiver for all  ments (which translated into an annual alloca-
payment periods, beginning July 1, 1991, of  tion level for fiscal 1992 of SDR118 million);
twenty-five basis points on the interest rate  and (c) an allocation of SDR75 million to
charged to those borrowers that have serviced  IDA-only borrowers that are undertaking debt
all their loans from the IBRD in a timely  work-out programs to supplement their normal
manner. The board also agreed to recommend  IDA allocations. Later in the year, the board
to the governors that $350 million be trans-  approved the distribution of reflow allocations
ferred to IDA.                             to sixteen countries.
The board considered a proposal on IBRD
Operations Evaluation; Project             debt repurchases and authorized the Bank to
Implementation and Supervision             repurchase from time to time, on the open
In order to fulfill its responsibility to review  market or otherwise, notes, bonds, or other
project evaluations and proposals for future  evidences of indebtedness that are issued by
evaluation activities, the board continued to  the IBRD. The financial gain to the Bank of
give particular attention to the Operations  market-based debt repurchases results from
Evaluation Department (OED). The OED, un-  the replacement of one asset already in the
der the direction of its director general, is  market with another asset that is preferred by
linked administratively to the Bank's presi-  investors and for which they are willing to pay
dent, but is directly responsible to the execu-  a higher price. The difference in price provides
tive directors. The executive board considered  the basis for the Bank's financial advantage. In
the OED report on its work program and staff  order to better monitor this new program, the
budget for fiscal year 1993, the current status  board agreed that if either (a) repurchase trans-
of the department's work, and the report on  actions during fiscal year 1992 or fiscal 1993
operations evaluation. The executive board  resulted in a net decrease in the IBRD's in-
also discussed the OED's annual review of  come of $50 million or (b) a total of $500 million
evaluation results and agreed that the review  face amount of IBRD bonds were repurchased
should be published for distribution outside the  during fiscal 1992 or fiscal 1993, management
Bank.                                      would return to the board before undertaking
In addition, the board considered the seven-  additional repurchases. Management also
teenth annual report on project implementation  agreed to return to the board prior to imple-
and supervision, which summarized the status  menting a debt-repurchase program in a cur-
of ongoing operations in fiscal 1991. The em-  rency other than U.S. dollars. The global-
phasis of the board's discussion was on efforts  borrowing authorization was also amended
to strengthen project supervision, the linkage  accordingly. As in recent years, the board
between OED evaluation results and the re-  continued to be concerned with issues related
port's project-performance classifications, and  to the Bank's practices with respect to coun-
the linkage between countries' adjustment ef-  tries in arrears. The executive directors were
forts and portfolio performance.           briefed on the status of the IBRD loan portfolio
and considered, in a series of meetings, the
Review of Policy Proposals                 IBRD's loan-loss provisioning requirements.
The executive board reviewed many policy  They approved a proposal by management that
proposals during the fiscal year, covering fi-  loan-loss provisioning for fiscal 1992 should
nance, operations, development economics,  remain at a level equal to 2.5 percent of out-
sector policies, and administration.       standing loans and the present value of guar-
Finance. In fiscal 1992, the board concen-  antees at the end of the fiscal year and that
trated on various issues related to IDA. Direc-  provisions for fiscal 1993 should be accumu-
tors reviewed a report on IDA's policies, op-  lated at 2.5 percen\of the growth in the overall
erations, and finance in the first year of the  portfolio.
ninth replenishment (fiscal 1991) and ex-    In addition to considering these specific fi-
pressed general satisfaction that progress was  nanciat policies, the executive directors fol-
being made towards the key objectives set out  lowed closely the status of the IBRD's borrow-
in the report on the IDA-9 replenishment. The  ing program through regular market briefings
board also considered proposals for the use in  and quarterly reviews of funding-operations
fiscal 1992 of IDA reflows and approved (a) an  reports.
increase in the level of advance commitments  Operations. In fiscal year 1992, the board
against reflows of SDR75 million annually in  dealt with several issues fundamental to the
the period fiscal 1992-93 (from SDR575 million  Bank's operational priorities and strategies.
to SDR650 million); (b) a continuation of an-  Following on its work over the past several
nual allocations at the already-approved 90  years on operational guidelines and procedures
percent coverage level of IBRD interest pay-  concerning the debt strategy, the board consid-


﻿Review of Po)icy Proposa]s  25
ered a review of progress under the Debt   alized countries at the July 1990 economic
Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries and  summit in Houston.
a review of the program to support debt and  The executive directors discussed the sec-
debt-service reduction.'                   ond annual report on the Bank and the envi-
The board reaffirmed the importance of pov-  ronment (covering fiscal year 1991) and en-
erty reduction as an integrating theme in nearly  dorsed its publication and submission to the
all Bank assistance in its discussion of the draft  Development Committee as background mate-
operational directive on poverty and the staff  rial for the committee's October 1991 meeting.
poverty handbook, which followed on the    The board was also briefed on the progress of
board's fiscal year 1991 review of the Bank's  the Global Environment Facility, whose fund-
assistance strategies to reduce poverty. The  ing it had approved in the previous year. In a
executive directors stressed that the Bank's  series of seminars and Committees of the
attention should be on strengthening implemen-  Whole, the executive directors also reviewed
tation of the poverty-reduction strategy and on  World Development Report 1992, which ana-
completing poverty assessments. They agreed  lyzed the links between economic development
to examine further the Bank's progress in this  and the environment, and discussed the opera-
area in the next fiscal year.              tionat directive on environmental assessments.
In the area of privatization, the board re-  The board also reviewed the Bank Group's
viewed, in a series of meetings, a report on the  policies with respect to tobacco projects and
lessons of experience of Bank Group lending,  supported the Bank's formal cessation of sup-
which presented practical recommendations to  port for tobacco production and processing
assist borrower governments and the Bank   and the addition of tobacco-processing ma-
Group in realizing the potential positive results  chinery to the negative list of imports under
of privatization while minimizing its costs.3  adjustment loans and credits. While emphasiz-
The executive board also reviewed the Bank's  ing the importance of measures to encourage a
program of expanded cofinancing, which is  reduction in the use of tobacco products, the
intended to support borrowers' access to pri-  executive directors urged the Bank to treat the
vate capital markets within the context of the  subject with sensitivity and flexibility, as some
Bank's overall country-assistance strategies  countries were heavily dependent on tobacco
and risk-management constraints.4 In order  as a source of foreign exchange.
to further strengthen the Bank Group's acti-  The board carefully followed the develop-
vities in promoting foreign direct investment,  ments in the international economic and polit-
the executive directors approved the organiza-  ical environment. Throughout the course of the
tion and funding of the Foreign Investment  year, the board had briefings, seminars, and
Advisory Service (FIAS) as a program jointly  regular meetings on developments in the coun-
administered by the Bank, the IFC, and     tries of the former Soviet Union. Major board
MIGA.                                      actions in this area included: early in the fiscal
The board also examined Bank policies guid-  year, approval of a transfer from the Bank's
ing financial-sector operations. It agreed that  surplus to fund technical assistance to the
there was a need to ensure that loans made to  Soviet Union; in mid fiscal year, a review of
and through local financial institutions are con-  the Bank's work program and progress in the
sistent with, and supportive of, coherent strat-  former Soviet republics; and, shortly before
egies for the sector's development.'       the April 1992 meeting of the Development
In the area of adjustment lending, the board  Committee, approval of a report and draft
reviewed the third report on adjustment lending.'  resolution to the board of governors recoi-
The environmental aspects of projects fi-  mending membership of the fifteen former So-
nanced by the Bank remained an important   viet republics in the Bank.
issue during the year. Following on its work in  The board also followed the development
fiscal year 1991, the board concluded its re-  strategies of a large number of member coun-
view of the Bank's policies in the forestry  tries. Country-strategy reviews of forty-one
sector, endorsed the principle of a multisec-  IDA-only countries were discussed, as were
toral approach to relieving pressures on for-  the policy-framework papers on eighteen coun-
ests, and established conditions for Bank in-  tries that were jointly prepared by Bank and
volvement in the forest sector, including the
Bank's stance of not financing commercial    For details, see pages 65-68.
logging in primary tropical moist forests.' in  2 For details, see page 46.
addition, the board followed progress made in  For details, see page 62.
the pilot program to conserve the Brazilian  For details, see page 76.
For details, see page 63.
rainforest that had resulted from a request by  For details, see page 68.
the heads of state of the seven major industri-  For details, see page 57.


﻿26   The Executive Board
Table 1-1. Aid Coordination Group Meetings Chaired by the World Bank
in Fiscal 1992
(consortia, consultative groups, and aid groups)
Date                                       Country                             Location
1991
July 8-9                     Egypt consultative group                        Paris
July 9                       Caribbean Group for Cooperation in              Paris
Economic Development (subgroup
meeting for Guyana)
July 10                      Caribbean Group for Cooperation in              Paris
Economic Development (subgroup
meeting for Haiti)
September 17-18             Costa Rica consultative group                    Paris
September 19-20             India consortium                                 Paris
November 4-6                 Bolivia consultative group                      Paris
November 25-26               Kenya consultative group                        Paris
December 9-11                Mozambique consultative group                   Paris
December 12                 Lebanon aid coordination                         Paris
1992
February 7                   Sri Lanka aid group                             Paris
February 18-19              Zimbabwe consultative group                      Paris
March 12-13                  Philippines consultative group                  Hong Kong
March 23-24                  Zambia consultative group                       Paris
March 23                    El Salvador consultative group                   Washington
March 24                    Costa Rica consultative group                    Washington
March 24                     Guatemala consultative group                    Washington
March 25                     Honduras consultative group                     Washington
March 26                    Nicaragua consultative group                     Washington
April 15-16                 Nepal aid group                                  Paris
April 21-22                  Bangladesh aid group                            Paris
April 23-24                  Pakistan consortium                             Paris
April 27-28                  Papua New Guinea consultative group             Singapore
May 11-13                   Malawi consultative group                        Paris
May 18-19                    Uganda consultative group                       Paris
June 1-5                     Caribbean Group for Cooperation in              Washington
Economic Development
June 25-26                  India consortium                                 Paris
International Monetary Fund (IMF) staffs and  ings with senior management. In addition, the
the countries concerned. Directors were also  board held biannual discussions on its own
regularly briefed on the activities and progress  work program, as recommended by the exec-
of the increasing number of consultative and  utive directors' steering committee, covering
aid groups chaired by the Bank at the request  fiscal year 1992.
of recipient countries (see Table 1-1), on the  Sector policies and development economics.
progress of the onchocerciasis-control pro-   The board reviewed in regular board sessions,
gram, and on the meetings of the Consultative  Committees of the Whole, and seminars a
Group on International Agricultural Research.  number of sector reports covering Bank poli-
The board also discussed the Bank's opera-    cies and "best practices." These included re-
tional approach to Peru, a country with pro-  ports on export-processing zones; reform of
tracted arrears; held a seminar on the social  public-sector management;' governance; and
dimensions of adjustment in Africa; and re-   effective family planning. The board also re-
ceived briefings on developments in South     viewed the activities and priorities of the Of-
Africa and Yugoslavia.
The board monitored the progress of the
Bank's lending program through regular brief-   For details, see page 62.


﻿Development Committee  27
fice of the Vice President-Development Eco-  of the board of the IBRD, IDA, the IFC, and
nomics and Chief Economist and the Office of  MIGA commencing September 1, 1991.
the Vice President-Sector and Operations Pol-  In the area of collaboration with the IMF,
icy. A number of major products of these   the board discussed a memorandum on Bank-
offices were considered by the board, includ-  IMF collaboration, and general agreement was
ing the annual report on the Bank's research  reached on the need for close and effective
program, the work program of the Economic  coordination between the two institutions in
Development Institute (EDI), and the outline  addressing the complex and unique situation
and final draft of World Development Report  facing the countries of the former Soviet
1992. In recognition of the importance of the  Union. While recognizing the close interdepen-
international economic environment on devel-  dence between macroeconomic stabilization
opment prospects, the board discussed reports  and structural reform, which needs to be re-
on global economic prospects and developing  flected in collaboration between the Bank and
countries and the short-term outlook for the  the IMF, both institutions should maintain
global economy; held a briefing on the publi-  their respective mandates. Collaboration that
cation, World Debt Tables; and attended a  went beyond this, some directors cautioned,
two-day colloquium on emerging issues in the  could be interpreted as amounting to cross
former republics of the Soviet Union.      conditionality. Directors noted, for instance,
Administration. The board continued to be  that Bank investment lending in a particular
active in terms of setting major policies for the  country should not be subject to the existence
Bank's administration. In fiscal year 1992, it  of understandings reached between that partic-
was particularly involved with issues concern-  ular country and the IMF, provided that the
ing the Bank's human resources. Following on  Bank itself was satisfied with the direction of
the extensive work of the Committee on Per-  the country's economic policies.
sonnel Policy Issues, the board considered the
committee's report on the implementation of  Development Committee
the Bank's human-resources strategy. Later in  The executive directors were actively in-
the year, it discussed management's annual  volved with the Development Committee, as-
report on human-resources strategy, which re-  sisting committee members in preparing for
viewed progress in meeting the Bank's strate-  their meetings, considering the draft provi-
gic priorities in the light of substantial changes  sional agenda, and discussing the president's
in the Bank's membership and external envi-  reports and background papers, which were
ronment and in the new and more complex    used as the basis for the ministers' discussions.
demands being placed on the Bank staff.    In addition, several months prior to each meet-
In connection with personnel policies, the  ing, the executive directors met as a Commit-
executive directors reviewed staff-benefits pol-  tee of the Whole to discuss the preliminary
icies and approved a modified home-leave and  agenda and the outlines for the background
education-travel benefit plan that provided ad-  papers to ensure that the main issues and
ditional flexibility for staff, while being cost-  concerns of committee members were re-
neutral and more simple for the Bank to ad-  flected in the documentation.
minister. They also approved an adjustment in  In preparing for the Development Commit-
the education grant and extended interim mea-  tee's semiannual meetings, the board discussed
sures (which they had approved in fiscal 1990)  a broad range of papers and reports, which
to protect non-U.S. Bank staff from the effect  touched on many of the most important issues
of a 1988 change in U.S. estate-tax law. As it  for the Bank such as poverty reduction, private-
does each year, the executive directors consid-  sector development, the effect of industrialized-
ered a review of staff compensation and ap-  country policies on developing countries, debt
proved an annual salary adjustment.        reduction, and the transfer of resources. The
After authorizing, in fiscal 1989, a plan for  papers for the October 1991 meeting included:
the rehabilitation of the Bank's main complex,  "Development Priorities of the 1990s and Their
the board continued to follow closely the prog-  Implications for the World Bank Group" and
ress of the program, including reviewing re-  "Development of Human Resources in Devel-
vised projections on space requirements of the  oping Countries." There were also reports on
Bank Group into the next century.          the Bank's women-in-development activities,'
On the occasion of the retirement of Barber  the Bank Group's progress in expanding pri-
B. Conable, the executive directors adopted a  vate-sector activities," the implementation of
resolution of appreciation for Mr. Conable's
leadership of the World Bank Group over the
past five years, The executive directors wel-  For details, see page 53.
cored Lewis T. Preston as the new chairman   For details, see page 60.


﻿28   The Executive Board
the debt strategy and its effect on the develop-  pared its fiscal 1992 work program, it took into
ment prospects of severely indebted countries,  consideration the panel's recommendation that
trends in the transfer of resources, and current  contacts between the externat auditors and the
international-trade developments. The papers  committee should be more frequent.
for the April 1992 meeting included: "The    Further, through regular meetings with the
Interlinkages between the Policies of the In-  Bank's senior financial officers, the committee
dustrial and Developing Countries Emphasiz-  helped to provide assurance to the executive
ing Trade Aspects" and "The Interaction of  board that the financial affairs of the Bank
Environmental and Development Policies."   were properly conducted. In this regard, the
The board also reviewed progress reports on  committee reviewed and endorsed recommen-
trends in the transfer of resources; the imple-  dations pertaining to the fiscal 1992 implemen-
mentation of the debt strategy, covering both  tation of the IBRD's policy for loan-loss pro-
official and commercial-bank creditors; the  visioning. It was also briefed on the status of
status of negotiations on the tenth replenish-  the current IBRD loan portfolio. In addition,
ment of IDA resources;" the implementation  the committee reviewed the situation of coun-
of the Bank's plan of action for the reduction of  tries in arrears and heard reports on recent
poverty;2 and a legal framework for foreign  developments in nonaccrual countries. The
direct investment.                         committee also reviewed and endorsed the
The executive directors' Steering Commit-  recommendations regarding the annual alloca-
tee reviewed the communiquis released by the  tion of IBRD net income. In this context, the
Development Committee following its semian-  committee discussed incentives to encourage
nual meetings and made suggestions to ensure  borrowers to repay their loans on time and
that the board's work program was responsive  endorsed a proposal to limit incentives for
to the directions set out by the Development  timely loan repayment to a conditional waiver
Committee.                                 of twenty-five basis points of the loan-interest
rate. The committee also revisited the issue of
Committees of the Executive Directors      a conditional waiver of the commitment fee in
Joint Audit Committee. Established in 1970,  the course of its consideration of fiscal 1992
the Joint Audit Committee represents share-  net-income recommendations made to the
holders in overseeing the soundness of the  board. Two other areas reviewed were the
Bank's financial practices and the adequacy of  management of the IBRD's liquidity and the
the work of the operations-evaluation and  Bank's various lending instruments.
internal-audit units. The committee provides a  To strengthen its oversight responsibility for
channel through which the internal and exter-  the Internal Auditing Department, the commit-
nal auditors can communicate with the execu-  tee initiated the practice of holding executive
tive directors.                            sessions with the auditor general. In addition,
In fulfilling its responsibilities during fiscal  it undertook its annual review of the work
1992, the committee nominated a firm of pri-  program of the Internal Auditing Department.
vate, independent, internationally established  Through the informal Subcommittee on Inter-
accountants to conduct the annual audits of the  nal Auditing Department Reports, the commit-
Bank. The committee reviewed the scope of  tee examined specific audit reports to deter-
the independent accountants' examination and  mine whether the department had performed
their annual audited financial statements. The  its functions adequately and efficiently. The
committee also held its second executive ses-  committee reviewed and endorsed the recoi-
sion with the external auditors without man-  mendations of the subcommittee.
agement's participation to discuss the auditors'  Further to its oversight function, the coi-
findings and recommended actions.          mittee also undertook its annual review of the
During the year, the committee reviewed the  work program of the Operations Evaluation
report of the Independent Panel of Interna-  Department. It reviewed and endorsed the
tional Audit Experts, which was established in  recommendations of the informal Subcomiit-
March 1991 to assist in the committee's first  tee on Operations Evaluation Department Re-
performance review of the incumbent external  ports, which had examined specific products of
auditors. The committee concurred with the  the department to determine whether it had
conclusions and recommendations of the panel  performed its functions adequately and whether
that, based on the performance of the incum-  appropriate systems were in place to ensure
bent auditors, there was no basis to consider a  that its findings were being disseminated and
change in external auditors at this time, and
that it would be appropriate to repeat the
performance-review process in three or four   For details, see page 75.
years. In addition, when the committee pre-  s2 For details, see page 46.


﻿Committees of the Executive Directors  29
utilized. In addition, the committee reviewed  and charges for special guests and visitors to
a number of papers by the Operations Evalu-  the annual meetings.
ation Department as part of an ongoing effort  The committee is composed of eight execu-
to identify problems or policy issues for con-  tive directors. J. S. Baijal has served as chair-
sideration by the executive directors. The  person of the committee since November 1990.
committee also addressed the issue of a      Committee on Personnel Policy Issues. The
broadened mandate for the Operations Eval-  committee, which was established in 1980, is
uation Department.                         charged with keeping under continuing review,
The committee consists of eight executive  and, where appropriate, advising the executive
directors who are appointed by the board after  directors on, staff compensation and other
each regular election for a term of two years.  significant personnel-policy issues. It also
Jean-Pierre Landau has served as chairperson  maintains close liaison with the executive di-
of the committee since December 1991.      rectors of the IMF on these issues, bearing in
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Bud-  mind the need for general parallelism between
get Practices. The committee was established the two institutions.
in 1986 to examine aspects of the Bank's     The committee reviewed the final paper on
business processes, administrative policies,  changes in benefits resulting from the 1990
standards, and budget practices that signifi-  Quadrennial Benefits Survey. Thereafter, the
cantly affect the cost-effectiveness of its oper-  committee reviewed the 1992 update of the
ations.                                    Bank's human-resources strategy. The 1992
Early in the fiscal year, the committee for-  update addressed issues touched on during
warded to the president its report on "Exter-  previous committee reviews, reported on prog-
nally Funded Activities." The report was pre-  ress made, and outlined actions and plans to
pared in response to concerns about the    strengthen human-resources implementation.
administration of trust funds and reimbursable  Major concerns of the committee were the
programs, which have been one of the most  need for greater nationality and gender diver-
rapidly growing areas of Bank activity. The  sity among staff, the need to adjust the staffs
committee commended management for the     skills mix to meet the Bank's evolving needs,
steps being taken to improve the administra-  and the importance of a strengthened and
tion of these programs. Nevertheless, the com-  centralized personnel function. The committee
mittee felt that further progress could be made.  intends to continue to address the issue of an
In response to the president's request for its  appropriate skills mix for the Bank during the
views, the committee held a series of meetings  coming year in the context of a broader debate
to consider the report of the Technical Assis-  on how the Bank's personnel policies, includ-
tance Review Task Force: its comments were  ing its human-resources strategy and the role
submitted to the president in January. The  of field offices, should be modified in order to
committee was in full agreement with manage-  provide for a more effective implementation of
ment's intention to improve the delivery of  the Bank's poverty-reduction strategy and the
Bank technical assistance and urged rapid im-  Bank's areas of special operational emphasis.
plementation of the task force's recommenda-  The committee also received a briefing by
tions." In addition, the committee generally  the head of the Advisory Group on Higher
endorsed the proposal for a grant facility for  Level Women's Issues and commended the
technical assistance, to be called the Institu-  group on its findings and recommendations
tional Development Fund (IDF).             concerning the hiring and promotion of women
The committee reviewed the proposed re-  for higher-level positions in the Bank. The
vised budget system. The committee endorsed  committee expects to follow the progress made
and strengthened the proposed system as one  in implementing the advisory-group's recoi-
that would lead to a simpler, more transparent,  mendations.
less time-consuming, and more cost-effective  In reviewing the 1992 Review of Staff Coi-
process. The new system will take effect with  pensation, the committee generally found that
the fiscal 1994 budget cycle.              the recommended salary adjustment struck the
The committee also began a review of the  right balance between the interests of the staff,
Bank's travel policy, which was last subject to  the institution, and the shareholders.
the committee's scrutiny in 1988. It was ex-  The committee consists of eight executive
pected that a report would be issued in mid  directors. Eveline Herfkens has served as
1992.                                      chairperson since December 1991.
Other significant topics considered by the
committee were the Bank's publications pol-
icy, communications technology, the fiscal
1991 work program and budget retrospective,  aFor details, see page 95.


﻿30   The Executive Board
Committee on Directors' Administrative   ruary 1991 to review the functioning and pro-
Matters. The committee was established in  cedures of the executive board and to report to
1968 to consider, make recommendations, and  the board on ways to conduct the board's work
report its findings to the executive directors for  more efficiently. Included in the committee's
their decision on administrative matters relat-  work program are reviews of board procedures
ing to executive directors, alternates, advisers,  as they relate to policy discussions and policy
and their staffs.                          implementation, discussions of the Bank's
The committee is responsible for assisting  country-assistance strategies, consideration of
executive directors in the formulation and im-  the external environment, lending operations,
plementation of new administrative policies  board reports, and board discussions in general.
and changes in existing policies. Matters taken  The committee's report is expected to be con-
up during the year included amendment of   sidered by the executive directors early in fiscal
Section 2(f) of Rules of Procedure for Meetings  1993.
of Executive Directors; executive directors'  The ad hoc committee has been chaired by
travel to member countries outside their con-  Mois6s Naim since August 1991.
stituencies (group travel); staffing of executive  Executive Directors' Steering Committee.
directors' offices; travel of executive directors'  The Executive Directors' Steering Committee,
assistants; the status of the Bank's main-  an informal advisory body of executive direc-
complex rehabilitation project; and remunera-  tors, composed of the dean and the codean of
tion of advisers and executive directors' assis-  the board and the chairpersons of the other
tants.                                      standing board committees, meets monthly to
The committee coordinates many of its rec-  consult on, and review with the Bank's vice
ommendations with a similar committee estab-  president and secretary, the executive direc-
lished by the executive directors of the Inter-  tors' work program. The committee also pro-
national Monetary Fund.                    vides a consultative framework on various
In making its recommendations, the commit-  board issues. In addition, the committee re-
tee tries to maintain a balance between the  views the Development Committee's commu-
organizational and administrative objectives of  niqus to ensure that the implications for the
the institution and the unique circumstances  executive directors' work program are fully
faced by the directors in discharging their dual  considered. Fawzi H. Al-Sultan, the dean of
responsibilities.                          the board, has served as chairperson of the
The membership consists of six executive  committee since November 1990.
directors. Felix Alberto Camarasa has served  The meetings of committees of the executive
as chairperson since November 1990.        board are open to participation by all executive
Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures.     directors
The ad hoc committee was established in Feb-


﻿31
Section Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
In 1991, for the second year in a row, the  its successor states, where a growing shortage
economies of low-income and middle-income  of foreign exchange led to a compression of
countries virtually stagnated, as measured by  imports from Eastern Europe and an accelera-
an increase in per capita gross domestic prod-  tion of certain commodity exports (aluminum,
uct (GDP). Aggregate output for developing  gold, and lead, for instance) to earn hard
countries advanced by slightly less than 2  currencies.
percent during 1991 (similar to the weak per-  Against this deteriorating global back-
formance of 1990), implying an easing in per  ground, the improvement in economic perfor-
capita income of 0.1 percent.              mance in a few    developing regions in
Aggregate statistics for 1991 were influenced  1991-which carried over into 1992-was es-
by the sharp decline in output in Central and  pecially noteworthy. This improvement is at-
Eastern Europe, as well as by the adverse  tributable, in part, to the implementation by
effects of the Gulf crisis on several economies  many governments of measures to stabilize
in the Middle East. Excluding Central and  their economies and restructure incentives to
Eastern Europe, growth in developing coun-  encourage private initiative and international
tries in 1991 was 3.4 percent, compared with  trade. Policy reforms in Latin America helped
3.8 percent during the 1980s. Estimates of GDP  to moderate inflation and domestic demand;
growth by major geographic region show an  East Asian economies, supported by growth in
acceleration in Latin America and in sub-  export volume in the range of 10 percent and
Saharan Africa; an increase in China's growth  by robust domestic demand, continued to grow
rate helped to sustain high rates of growth in  rapidly. Sub-Saharan Africa raised its real
the East Asia region.                      GDP growth rate from 1.3 percent in 1990 to
International conditions for growth in devel-  2.4 percent in 1991.
oping countries deteriorated in 1991. The seven  Also noteworthy was the implementation by
major industrial countries (the G-7) experienced  the Paris Club of a new menu of enhanced
a significant slowdown in GDP growth-from  concessions in debt reschedulings for the se-
2.8 percent in 1990 to 1.9 percent during 1991 as  verely indebted, low-income countries. The
recession gripped Canada, the United King-  menu was introduced in agreements with Be-
dom, and the United States and growth rates  nin and Nicaragua, and was subsequently ap-
slowed in continental Europe and Japan. In  plied in agreements with Bolivia and Tanzania.
important respects, the slowdown was different  Nonconcessional but special extended re-
from those that occurred during the 1970s and  scheduling terms were also accorded to ten
1980s. Rather than reflecting the effect of disin-  severely indebted middle-income countries.
flationary policies, weakness in demand was  In the commodity market, prices of all major
more closely related to the loss of momentum  categories declined in 1991. The index of
that had built up during the long period of  nonoil primary commodity prices in nominal
expansion that began in 1983. In addition, a  dollar terms declined for the third consecutive
common factor underlying the slowdown in   year, and the index in real terms hit an all-time
many industrial countries was the cyclical de-  low. Growth in the volume of world trade in
celeration in investment spending.         constant dollar terms declined from 5 percent
Although the weakness in demand in the  in 1990 to 3 percent in 1991, mainly the result
United States led to a sharp decline in short-  of the slowdown in industrial countries' import
term dollar interest rates-a positive develop-  demand. There were no breakthroughs in the
ment for many developing countries-it also  Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations on key
contributed to a drop of over 6 percent in  elements, and the outcome remains in doubt.
nonoil commodity prices and to a slackening,  In matters relating to the environment, the
to 3 percent, in the growth of world trade.  United Nations Conference on Environment
These trends were compounded by worsening  and Development, held in June 1992 in Rio de
economic conditions in the Soviet Union and  Janeiro, produced an "Earth Charter," or dec-


﻿32   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
laration of basic principles for the conduct of  was dominant, as well. Unification further
nations and peoples with respect to environ-  boosted investment, which then appeared to
ment and development; agreements on specific  diminish, as expectations of profitability were
legal measures, including conventions on cli-  dampened by higher wages and high short-term
mate change and biodiversity, and principles  nominal and real interest rates. Upward pres-
for a framework agreement on forests; and an  sures on wages and interest rates generally
agenda for action ("Agenda 21"), establishing  dampened economic activity in Germany dur-
the environmental work program agreed by the  ing 1991. The special factor there was the
international community for the period beyond  pressure on interest rates that arose from the
1992 and into the twenty-first century.       financing of unification and from anti-inflation-
ary monetary policy. Inflation as measured by
Major Industrial Countries                    the GDP deflator slackened in most of the G-7
Growth in the G-7 countries decelerated     countries. It continued to decelerate in North
from 2.8 percent in 1990 to 1.9 percent in 1991  America and edged down in Japan. The record
(see Table 2-1). The broad trend was the out-  in Europe was mixed, however: Inflation eased
come of largely unexpected setbacks to recov-  somewhat in Italy and in the smaller econo-
ery in the United States and the United King-  mies such as Spain and Portugal, but acceler-
dom and the apparent onset of a slower period  ated by about one half of a percentage point in
of economic growth in Japan and Germany. A    the United Kingdom (the result of statistical
cyclical slowdown of investment was appar-    anomalies) and by more than a point in Ger-
ently a major component of the slowdown:      many.
Investment decelerated or fell during 1991 in   The slowdown of the industrial countries in
all the G-7 countries. In Japan, the cyclical  1991 partly originated in structural problems
slowing of investment was probably the domi-  inherited from the 1980s. Slower growth in
nant factor in weaker growth, but a slump in  Europe in 1991 revealed that unemployment,
construction of rental housing and the fading of  for instance, was still a structurally proble-
a tax-cut-induced boom in auto sales also con-  matic area. The unemployment rate in the four
tributed. In Germany, the role of investment  largest European economies was 7.8 percent in
Table 2-1. G-7 Countries: Output, Inflation, Investment, and Unemployment, 1981-91
(average annual percentage changeo unemployment rates in percent)
G-7 country                    1981-9da 1990        1991b    981c9a     1990     991
Real GNP or GDP    T          GNP or GDP deflator'
Canada                           3.2        0.5     -1.5        3.9       3.0       2.7
France                           2.5        2.2       1.3       5.1       3.1       3.0
Germanyd                         2.5        4.5       3.1       2.7       3.4       4.6
Italy                            2.6        2.2       1.4       8.7       7.6       7.3
Japan                            4.4        5.2       4.5       1.4       2.1       1.9
United Kingdom                   3.0        1.0     -2.2        5.6       6.4       6.9
United States                    2.9        1.0       0.9       3.8       4.2       3.6
Aggregate weighted averageA 3.0           2.8       1.9       3.5        3.8      3.8
Gross fixed investment          Unemployment rate
Canada                           4.5      -3.3      -3.5        9.5       8.1      10.3
France                           3.2        2.9     -0.6        9.3       8.9       9.4
Germany"                         3.2        8.8       6.7       5.7       4.9       4.3
Italy                            2.8        3.3      0.9       10.7      11.1      11.0
Japan                            6.4        9.5       3.5       2.5       2.1       2.1
United Kingdom                   5.3      -2.4     -10.3        9.5       5.9       8.3
United States                    2.5      -1.6      -7.6        7.1       5.5       6.7
Aggregate weighted average'    3.7        3.5     -0.9        6.5        5.4      5.9
a. Ordinary least squares trend.
b. Preliminary.
c. GNP for Germany, Japan, and the United States; GDP ror others.
d. The part of Germany corresponding to the western L1lnder.
e. Aggregates are weighted on the basis of 1987 values of GNP or GDP converted to US dollars at 1987 exchange rates.
Soucae: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).


﻿Developing Countries  33
Table 2-2. Current-account Balances of the G-7 Countries, 1984-91
Billion.   I Seasiv     i
Canada                                            NN - 3 2 -  -I  -V    -I      -23 4
Francerporate ectors ws-an examle of-an
German                          h o  i particular
Italy                 -24                       --1 1    --%     - Ill h  -14.4   I~.
Japan ec 4o m    of'Japasand2th5Unite
United Fincdnil  i  t   4 itutis         14 -n -thes-t
United           more csr vi  a   le 4t.4 ti
Total 5 4                                      1 c4uai  f5inacin  o'fhigher
Percer. . q ill
Canada                                                                             ".q ii  ~  1 -  ~   ~ -
France           croa      tr11ansactions. A
Germam of           ition1                               4.     4 hwre2l-Ion
Japan     i     g         t e      oc    I
Unitec K.nco.in.        1       I        ui     -I I     -         41     -.      -11
United                -        -31     -4       -5       -6       -1      -.-       .
G-7  ..r. .          i        i..     -i       -i-14            -11     -11 I-.  -11
dr T  191, whr i  mayt-- r,.   T. h,e lp , L .I.r -  -o   I
N .   P.E  'irk  il
1990, near the peak of the business cycle, and  German current account-from   a surplus
rose to 8.3 percent in 1991. Financial stress  equivalent to 3.2 percent of GDP in 1990 to a
brought on by excessive debt in the household  deficit of 1.3 percent. A continuation of the
and corporate sectors was an example of an-   surge of imports that followed unification, as
other kind of structural problem, in particular  well as the earlier appreciation of the deutsche
for the economies of Japan and the United     mark, contributed to the swing. The Japanese
States. Financial institutions in these two   surplus on current account rose from 1.2 per-
countries adopted more conservative lending   cent of gross domestic product in 1990 to 2.1
policies, curtailing financing of higher-risk  percentin 1991.
projects such as commercial construction and    Several important developments in mone-
highly leveraged corporate transactions. A    tary conditions also took place in 1991. Re-
number of weaker institutions were also con-  flecting more accommodative monetary pol-
solidated through bankruptcy, merger, and re-  icy, nominal short-term interest rates fell in the
organization. These  developments   played    United States and Japan (see Figure 2-1). In
some part in the general tightening of credit  contrast, the increase in German nominal
during 1991. which may have helped to slow    short-term interest rates to post-war highs nar-
the pace of investment in the United States and  rowed the potential of some European Mone-
Japan. Weak growth of credit and a fall in some  tary System partners to reduce their rates. The
asset prices probably slowed consumption, as  German short-term real interest rate also rose
well,                                        relative to real interest rates in the United
A notable development in 1991 was a nar-    States and Japan (see Figure 2-2). The slope of
rowing of current-account imbalances of most  the Japanese yield curve became less negative
major industrial countries (see Table 2-2). The  and the United States' curve more positive as
U.S. current-account deficit moved to near    short-term interest rates fell more quickly than
balance (only 0.2 percent of gross domestic  long-term rates in both countries. In Germany,
product). The trade component of the deficit  the slope of the yield curve turned positive.
narrowed as lower inflation and earlier dollar
depreciation improved competitiveness, while  Developing Countries
the transfers component moved into substan-     Output for the  developing countries ad-
tial surplus because of war-related payments. vanced by 1.9 percent during 199 1-compara-
Moreover, there was a remarkable swing in the  b  Se to the weak performance they registered in


﻿34   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Figure 2-1. Nominal Six-month LIBOR Rates, 1984-91
(annual percentages)
12
Deutsche mark.
10
U.S. dollar
444
4'                                                                %
1984     1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991
Source: IMF and OECD.
Figure 2-2. Real Six-month LIBOR Rates, 1984-91
(annual percentages)
8
7
.4                                  Yen /
6*
5
5 /       * * .**       * .*  . . . . . . .
3
Deutsche mark *
2
U.S. dollar
1  -             -  -__               __   _  _
1984     1985     1986      1987     1988     1989     1990     1991
Note: Data are the corresponding nominal rates adjusted by the local-currency GNP deflator for
the respective country.
Source: IMF and OECD.


﻿Developing Countries  35
1990 (see Table 2-3).' In terms of per capita  for the past six years, and since 1989 Mexico
income, real output in developing countries  has been enjoying a broad-based expansion at
apparently eased somewhat, by -0.1 percent.  rates of 3 percent to 4 percent a year. Recent
A number of factors-some broad-based, oth-  major policy steps undertaken in Argentina
ers more specific-contributed to the weak-  have brought a recovery in confidence and
ness of performance:                        growth, and a reflow of capital to a number of
* Because slowdown in industrial-country countries in the form of foreign direct invest-
growth dampened demand for exports of both  ment and portfolio investment suggests an in-
primary commodities and manufactures from   creased level of market confidence in the prog-
developing countries, the volume of merchan-  ress achieved to date.
dise exports of developing countries declined  Growth in output in East Asia, supported by
by 2 percent.                               the continued vibrant performance of the re-
* The influence of the Gulf crisis, including  gion's exports, as well as by a firming of
the spike in oil prices and dislocations in the  domestic demand, particularly in China, accel-
Middle East, was widespread; the effects of  erated to about 6.8 percent in 1991. The sharp
the crisis on Iraq and Yugoslavia (these two  acceleration of GDP growth in China, from 4.5
countries alone account for some 4 percent of  percent to over 6 percent, was supported by
developing countries' aggregate GDP) resulted  improvements in industrial output, higher lev-
in steep declines in output.                els of consumer spending, and significant gains
* Structural transformation and the collapse  in the export of manufactures. Despite the
of trade with the Soviet Union and its succes-  slowdown in industrial-country markets, ex-
sor states combined to induce a deep recession  port volumes for the group of East Asian
in most of Central and Eastern Europe, while  countries advanced at double-digit rates, im-
the sharp compression of imports by the Soviet  plying gains in market share. A moderate
Union adversely affected its other trading part-  slackening in GDP growth from the rapid 9
ners (such as India).                       percent-to-10 percent gains of 1990 occurred in
* Weakness of policy implementation af- the dynamic economies of the Republic of
fected economic performance in a number of  Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand, in part reflect-
countries.                                  ing a catch-up of imports. The major risk facing
Aggregate statistics for 1991 were dominated  this highly trade-oriented region is the poten-
by the sharp decline in output in Central and  tial for sluggishness or disruption in world-
Eastern Europe and by the severely adverse  trade flows. Economic weakness in some of
effects of the Gulf crisis on the economies of  the region's traditional export markets has
Middle Eastern countries. Estimates of GDP  underlined the importance of market diversifi-
by major geographic region reveal that growth  cation, including a further strengthening of ties
of output accelerated in Latin America and in  within the region. Increasingly buoyant intra-
sub-Saharan Africa, while a pick-up in China  regional trade in East Asia may be viewed as
helped sustain Asian activity. Despite a sharp  evidence of an ongoing process of "market-
slowdown in India, where GDP growth fell    oriented" regional integration, a development
from 5.5 percent in 1990 to 2.5 percent, the  that could partially offset lackluster progress in
population-weighted growth rate of developing  the area of multilateral trade agreements.
countries' GDP-3.5 percent in 1991-contin-    The GDP growth rate in 1991 of the South
ued to exceed the ordinary measure.-         Asia region was 2.8 percent, down from 5.6
Despite the slowdown in the industrial coun-  percent in 1990. The decline was partly caused
tries-particularly in the United States-im-  by India's reining in of its budget deficit and
provements in economic performance in Latin  the short-term effects of the implementation
America were widespread. The region's GDP   of strong emergency stabilization measures,
rose by 3.0 percent in 1991, thus reversing the  which, coupled with the collapse of the Soviet
slide in annual per capita income that had  market and recession in the U.S., contributed
taken place over the past decade. Growth rates  to a sharp slowdown in industrial activity and
were in excess of 4 percent in Argentina, Chile,  exports. The emergency measures included a
and Mexico, and reached a high of 9.1 percent
in Venezuela. Policy reforms covering fiscal
adjustment, trade and investment liberaliza-  Because of data limitations, states of the former Soviet
tion, the financial sector, and public-enterprise  Union are not included.
restructuring and privatization, supported by   Average GDP growth rate for a group of economies is
debt restructuring, have helped to moderate  computed as a weighted average of individual economies'
inflation in the region and strengthen domestic GP growth rates. Ordinarily, the weights consist of
infltio in he egin an stenghen ometic individual economies' GOP shares, while in population-
demand. Chile has now been growing at an     weighted methodology, the weights are individual econo-
average annual rate of 4.5 percentage points  mios' population shares.


﻿36    The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Table 2-3. Low- and Middle-income Economies: Growth of GDP and GDP Per Capita,
1981-91
(average annual percentage change unless otherwise noted)
GDP                        1990 GDP
(US$
Region or income group              1981-87    1988    1989    1990     19913    billions)
Low- and middle-income economies     3.4       4.0     3.2      2.3      1.9      3,635
By regional group
Sub-Saharan Africab                  1.8       3.9     3.5      1.3      2.4        173
East Asiac                           8.2       9.6     6.0      6.5      6.8        900
South Asiad                          5.0       8.3     5.7      5.6      2.8        381
Middle East and North Africae        1.2      -0.8     2.5      2.6      0.8        460
Europe and Central Asia'             2.6       2.8     0.8    -3.1     -7.4         522
Latin America and the Caribbeang     2.0       0.5     1.2    -0.4       3.0      1,094
By income group
Low-income economiesh                6.3       8.1     5.1      4.9      4.3      1,022
Middle-income economies             2.3       2.1     2.3      0.9      1.0      2,614
Severely indebted, middle-income
economies                         2.4      1.1     0.8     -2.0      1.2       1,111
a. Preliminary.
b. Excludes South Africa.
c. American Samoa, Cambodia, China, Fiji, Guam, Indonesia, Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Macao, Malaysia, Mongolia, New Caledonia and Pacific Islands' Trust Territory, Papua New Guinea, the
Philippines, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Tonga, Vanuatu, Viet Nam, and Western Samoa.
d. Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
e. Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Saudi
Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Yemen.
severe compression of imports, tight credit      Growth accelerated in sub-Saharan Africa to
policies, and exchange-rate devaluation.       2.4 percent in 1991, in part the result of the
Output in the Middle East and North Africa   indirect stimulation of Nigeria's economy by
region grew weakly at 0.8 percent in 1991,    the Gulf crisis, not only through temporarily
reflecting the shocks from  the Gulf crisis.   higher oil prices but also through its success in
Petroleum-price declines reduced revenues in   exploiting new oilfields quickly. For the past
oil-exporting countries, and many countries in  five years, the prices of nonoil commodities
the region were adversely affected by declines  exported by most West African countries (ro-
in workers' remittances and tourism revenues,  busta coffee and cocoa, for example) have
as well as by the need to increase social      fared worse than those that are particularly
spending in support of workers repatriated     important for East and Southern African coun-
from Iraq and the Gulf countries.              tries (mild arabica coffee and copper, for ex-
In Europe and Central Asia, GDP contracted   ample). Such sustained losses in terms of trade
by about 7 percent, as stabilization and reform  have contributed to growth performance in
programs in several countries had not yet led  West Africa that is poorer than in East and
to a bottoming-out in their economies. Average  Southern Africa.
output of the Central and East European econ-
omies, including Yugoslavia, is estimated to   Progress of the Debt Strategy
have dropped by 14 percent, following a de-      The Paris Club arrived at a far-reaching
cline of 8.7 percent in 1990. Estimates of     understanding with Egypt and Poland in 1991
economic decline among the five reforming      that could effectively reduce their debt burden
economies in this region range from 7.5 per-   by 50 percent. To achieve the full benefit of the
cent in Hungary to 26 percent in Bulgaria.     agreement, however, Egypt and Poland must
However, efforts to liberalize imports and di-  have an agreed program  in effect with the
versify exports-which followed the disband-    International Monetary Fund, must keep cur-
ing of the Council for Mutual Economic Assis-  rent with respect to the payments due under
tance (CMEA) trading block-led to strong       the terms of the agreement during 1991-94, and
growth in trade between Eastern Europe and     must have obtained comparable terms of debt
the industrialized countries,                  relief from other creditors. The total face value


﻿Progress of the Debt Strategy  37
1990                    GDP per capita
population
(millions)  1981-87   1988    1989     1990    1991a    Region or income group
4,146          1.4      1.9     1.2     0.3     -0.1    Low- and middle-income economies
By regional group
495         -13       0.8     0.4    -1.8     -0.6     Sub-Saharan Africab
1,577          6.5      7.8     4.3     5.0      5.2    East Asiae
1,148          2.7      6.0     3.4     3.3      0.8    South Asiad
256         -1.9     -3.7    -0.4    -0.3     -2.1     Middle East and North Africa'
200          1.6      1.9      0.0   -3.9     -8.1     Europe and Central Asiaf
433         -0.1     -1.5    -0.8    -2.3       1.1    Latin America and the Caribbeang
By income group
3,058          4.2      5.8     3.0     2.8      2.3    Low-income economieSh
1,088          0.2      0.1     0.3    -1.0    -1.0     Middle-income economies'
Severely indebted, middle-income
455          0.3     -0.9    -1.1    -3.9     -0.7        economiesi
f. Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Gibraltar, Greece, Hungary, Isle of Man, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Turkey,
and Yugoslavia.
e. All American and Caribbean economies south of the United States. except Cuba.
i            ,c,.m-  It   NP r,  ,   ..- rmo  ihr  .1 - 1h,* i  .r2   '
IIV  ri, I -r jrr  B. .1  j. fir  ii Bu I.  r-  t .n   C,a.: d k-r  E,.    ,J  r. %1T \I,.  .  rocco, Nicaragua, Peru, Poland,
of eligible debt covered by the agreements is  beyond the relief granted under Toronto terms.
estimated at $30 billion for Poland and $28   This proposal echoed the so-called Trinidad
billion for Egypt. The Paris Club creditor coun-  terms that had been advanced a year earlier,
tries stressed that Egypt and Poland were     which advocated a substantial reduction in the
special cases and that concessions extended to  entire stock of debt rather than of maturities
them would not necessarily be available to    falling due within a near-term consolidation
other developing countries. By the end of the  period. In December 1991, the Paris Club
year, nonconcessional but special extended    agreed to implement a new menu of enhanced
Paris Club rescheduling terms had been ac-    concessions for the low-income rescheduling
corded to ten countries: Congo, C6te d'Ivoire, countries. The new menu, which was intro-
the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Hondu-   dueed in the rescheduling agreements with Nic-
ras, Jamaica, Morocco, Nigeria, Peru, and the  aragua and Benin, and which was subsequently
Philippines.                                  applied in the agreements with Bolivia and
(At the April 1992 meeting of the G-24,     Tanzania, increased the degree of concession-
ministers stressed that due attention should be  ality in comparison with Toronto terms. The
given to debt-distressed middle-income coun-  menu effectively reduces by 50 percent the
tries and called on the Paris Club to extend  burden of debt service on the amounts resched-
debt-relief terms similar to those offered to  uled-the debt service due during the period
Egypt and Poland to other countries in a sim-  covered by the rescheduling. Creditors also
ilar situtation. They also noted the importance  indicated that they would he willing to consider
of new official export credits or guarantees,  the stocks of pre-cutoff-date debt after a period
particulary given the modernization needs     of three to four years.
linked to privatization.)                       Following the modification of the debt strat-
The debt strategy for the severely indebted  egy to allow for official support of debt-reduc-
low-income countries advanced in 1991 with a  lion operations, a significant number of heavily
call in July by the G-7 summit on the Paris Club  indebted developing countries, including Costa
for additional debt relief. The Paris Club was  Rica, Mexico, Morocco, the Philippines, Uru-
asked to consider concessions in debt resched-  guay, and Venezuela, reached agreement with
ulings for low-income countries that went well  commercial creditors in 1989 and 1990. In


﻿38    The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Table 2-4. Low- and Middle-income Economies: Long-term Debt and Debt Service,
Selected Years, 1986-91
(billions of US dollars and percentages)
All low- and           Severely indebted,
middle-income             middle-income
economiesa                economies           Sub-Saharan Africa
Item                 1986     1990     1991b     1986    1990   1991b   1986    1990   1991b
Debt outstanding     893.4   1,047.0   1,064.5  396.4   412.8   408.8   95.4   146,2   148.5
Official (%)      41.3      50.1     51.4    26.8    38.4    40.1   65.7    72.1    74.5
Private (%)       58.7      49.9     48.6    73.2    61.6    59.9   34.3    27.9     25.5
Debt as % of GNP      37.9     32.1      29.5    52.7    37.0    33.8   59.6    93.6    89.6
Debt service         115.3     123.1    134.9    46.9    40.0    45.5    7.7     8.3     8.9
Interest payments     52.1     51.4      59.0    25.5    18.4    22.5    2.9     3.8     4.1
Official (%)      26,4      36.2     37.5    15.1    27.0    28.4   48.9    61.2     64.8
Private (%)       73.6      63.8     62.5    84.9    73.0    71.6   51.1    38.8     35.2
Principal
repayments          63.2      71.7     75.9    21.3    21.6    23.0    4.7     4.4      4.8
Official (%)      26.6      34.1     37.9    25.8    36.3    39.5   29.8    50.5    54.0
Private (%)       73.4      65.9     62.1    74.2    63.7    60.5   70.2    49.5     46.0
Debt-service ratioc   30.0     19.8      21.2    43.9    25.5    29.7   28.3    19.1    20.5
Average interest
rate on new
commitments (%)      6.6       6.8     n.a.     7.0     8.0     n.a.   5.0     3.9     n.a.
Official (%)       5.8       5.5     n.a.     6.5     7.2     n.a.   4.2     3.4     n.a.
Private (%)        7.4      8.8      n.a.     7.9     9.0     n.a.   8.0     7.6     n.a.
Disbursements         94.3     101.5    107.2    28.6    27.8    27.1   10.1     9.4    10.0
Official (%)      41.1      46.6     50.7    45.2    49.2    53.5   61.9    73.0     73.9
Private (%)       58.9      53.4     49.3    54.8    50.8   -46.5   38.1    27.0    26.1
Net resource flows
on long-term
lendingd            31.1     29.7      37.7     7.3     6.3     4.2    5.4     4.9      5.5
Net transfers
on long-term
lendinge          -21.0     -21.6     -18.4   -18.2   -12.2   -17.8    2.5     1.1      1.4
n.a. Not available.
a. Covers 114 countries in the World Bank Debtor Reporting System.
b. Preliminary.
c. Debt service as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
d. Disbursements minus (actual) principal repayments.
e. Net resource flows minus (actual) interest payments.
SOURCE: World Bank.
1991, however, only Niger, Mozambique, and       Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries and
Nigeria reached agreement with their commer-     were cofinanced by bilateral donors. Nigeria
cial creditors on a debt-reduction program.      financed its debt-reduction operation with its
The Niger and Mozambique agreements, com-        own resources, but the IBRD      agreed to a
pleted in March and December 1991, respec-       negative-pledge waiver in connection with the
tively, involved buybacks of the bulk of their   operation.
commercial-bank debt at a deep discount,           In addition, in February 1992, the Philip-
while the Nigeria package, signed in December    pines reached agreement with bank creditors
1991, involved a menu of options, including a    on a term sheet for a financing package that
buyback and a par exchange for reduced-inter-    would provide for a comprehensive restructur-
est bonds. The Niger and Mozambique agree-       ing of its foreign commercial debt that re-
ments were supported by grants from the Debt     mained after the 1990 buyback. The new agree-


﻿Net Financial Flows and Access to Capital Markets  39
ment provides for a menu of options:        debt service-to-exports indicators declined
additional cash buybacks, new money com-    slightly. In sub-Saharan Africa, however, the
bined with debt-conversion bonds, and different  estimated rise in debt stocks, reflecting interest
types of debt exchanges at par for bonds with  rescheduling and new official loans, as well as
either permanent or temporarily reduced inter-  weak export performance, increased already
est rates. Two months later, Argentina reached  heavy debt burdens. It is estimated, for in-
an agreement in principle on a debt and debt-  stance, that sub-Saharan Africa's debt-service
service reduction package with its creditor  payments increased to 21 percent of exports in
banks. The agreement covers $31 billion of  1991, compared with 19 percent a year earlier,
commercial-bank debt, including $8 billion in  but these payments still represented only about
arrears, and allows banks to choose between  half of the scheduled payments. In Latin
floating-rate discount bonds and fixed-rate par  America, estimated debt stocks fell slightly in
bonds. At the end of the fiscal year, negotia-  1991, while debt-service payments rose. As a
tions were in progress on the details of the  result, debt-service indicators were mixed.
agreement. A number of countries, including  The debt-to-gross national product ratio, at 37
Brazil, are at various stages of negotiations on  percent, was lower than the 41 percent of the
debt-restructuring agreements-which would   previous year, whereas debt-service payments
include debt and debt-service reduction op-  actually paid rose significantly to 30 percent of
tions, most of which would have the potential  exports, up from 25 percent in the preceding
for official multilateral and bilateral support-  year.
with their commercial-bank creditors.
Preliminary data indicate that the nominal
value of the external debt of developing coun-  Access to Capital Markets
tries reached $1.28 trillion in 1991, virtually  Aggregate net resource flows in 1991 to de-
unchanged from its level of a year earlier. Of  veloping countries are estimated to have risen
this total, outstanding long-term debt amounted  by almost 7 percent in nominal terms to $87.0
to $1.06 trillion (see Table 2-4). Stability in the  billion, compared with $81.5 billion in the pre-
level of debt resulted from the fact that new  vious year (see Table 2-5). In real terms, how-
lending flows (including flows of short-term  ever, the 1991 total amounts to a decrease of 1
debt) of $38 billion were fully offset by the  percent. Recent trends in financial flows con-
effects of debt conversion, debt relief, and  tinued: A large share was accounted for by
clearance of arrears, as well as by exchange-  official flows, and a major part of private flows
rate valuation changes. In addition to the nego-  was represented by foreign direct investment
tiated debt reductions for Egypt and Poland,  (FDI) and portfolio flows (including external
cash payment of interest arrears, in particular  stock offerings, domestic stock-market invest-
by Brazil and Nigeria, contributed to debt re-  ment, and money-market flows). The official
duction. Debt-equity swaps also extinguished  share of total net flows, defined as the share of
substantial amounts of external debt, most no-  official development finance (comprising offi-
tably in Argentina, where debt-conversion pro-  cial loans and grants), stood at 60 percent in
grams eliminated $7 billion in the face value of  1991, the same as in 1990 and higher than 1989's
debt (including arrears) through the privatiza-  57 percent. Aggregate net FDI (net of profit
tion of telephone and airline companies (ENTel  remittances) fell to $24.1 billion (from $25.2
and Aerolineas Argentinas, respectively). Debt-  billion in 1990); nonetheless, that amount was
equity swaps and other conversion programs,  still higher than 1989's $23.6 billion.
however, have played only a limited role in   By region, the main features of the estimated
reducing external debt because of debtor-coun-  net flows were large increases to the Middle
try concerns over their fiscal impact.      East and North Africa, as well as to the Asia
Overall debt indicators for developing coun-  region, and a continuance of the trend towards
tries in 1991 were mixed: The estimated debt-  nondebt flows to Latin America. Net flows to
to-exports ratio was unchanged at 176 percent  the Middle East and North Africa are esti-
in 1991; the debt-to-gross national product  mated to have risen by $5.3 billion, to $13
ratio dropped to 38 percent (as compared with  billion, reflecting in part increased financial
42 percent in 1990); and the debt service-to-  flows related to the Gulf crisis and its after-
exports ratio inched up to 21 percent (as com-  math. In East Asia and South Asia, borrowing
pared with 20 percent in 1990).             by creditworthy countries accounted largely
The aggregate figures hide significant re-  for the $4.6 billion increase in flows, to $37.4
gional differences. In East Asia, an estimated  billion. In Central and Eastern Europe, a fall in
rise in debt stocks, reflecting good market  net resource flows of $1.4 billion, to $3.5
access, was balanced by strong export perfor-  billion, reflected the difficulties of countries in
mance: As a result, both debt-to-exports and  that subregion in attracting commercial fi-


﻿40    The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Table 2-5. Long-term Financial Flows to Low- and Middle-income Economies, 1982-91
(billions of US dollars)
Item                        1982  1983  1984   1985  1986   1987   1988  1989  1990  1991'
Long-term aggregate net
resource flows             91.0  71.9   63.3  60.4  54.7    51.5  66.4  70.9   81.5  87.0
Official development finance  35.3  33.9  33.3  34.1  36.0  36.0  37.3  40.1  49.3  50.7
Official grants          10.4  9.9   11.4  13.2   14.1   15.0  18.1   19.0  26.5  25.2
Net official lending     24.9  24.0  21.9  20.9   21.9   21.0   19.2  21.1  22.8  25.5
Bilateral              13.4  13.1   9,5   8.7    8.4    8.3    7.9  9.3    8.0  10.2
Multilateral           11.5  11.0  12.4   12.2  13.5   12.7   11.4  11.8  14.8   15.3
Net private loans          44.5  29.3  21.5  15.2    9.2    2.1   9.5   7.4    7.1  12.2
Commercial banks         31.7  20.4  16.2   5.8    2.2   -1.4    2.0  3.3    4.0   3.3
Bonds                     4.9  1.1    0.3   4.9    1.5    0.3    3.2  2.8    1.6   7.0
Others                    7.9  7.8    5.0   4.5    5.5    3.2    4.3   1.3   1.6   1.9
Foreign direct investment  11.2  8.6    8.4  10.6    9.6   13.5  19.6  23.6  25.2   24.1
Long-term aggregate net
transfers'                 29.2  13.6   -0.2  -4.6   -7.3  -12.4  -5.8   4.0  16.0   13.2
a. Preliminary.
b. Long-term aggregate net resource flows minus interest payments and reinvested and remitted profits.
SOURCE: World Debt Tables, 1991-92, except for 1991 figures, which are updated estimates.
nance. The fall was offset, to some extent, by  North Africa, net transfers increased from $1.9
disbursements from official sources, divided    billion in 1990 to $2.5 billion in 1991, reflecting
about equally between multilateral financial    external financing of restructuring after the
institutions and official bilateral creditors. In  Gulf crisis, particularly through loans. Net
sub-Saharan Africa, a small decline of $485    transfers in 1991 continued to be strongly pos-
million, to $16.4 billion, was accounted for by  itive to East Asia and South Asia ($7.3 billion
a drop in grants and private-source flows (in-  and $5.8 billion, respectively) and to sub-
cluding suppliers' credits). In Latin America, a  Saharan Africa ($11.2 billion), the latter re-
decline in net flows of $1.7 billion, to $17.1  flecting strong official flows on both conces-
billion, following a substantial rise in 1990, was  sional and grant terms.
less significant than was the shift in its compo-  Since 1990, a few middle-income countries
sition to nondebt flows, principally FDI and    in Latin America-Chile, Mexico, and Vene-
portfolio inflows. Official flows to Latin Amer-  zuela-have been able to emerge from com-
ica declined in 1991. In particular, multilateral  mercial bank debt-reduction operations with
flows fell after the completion of debt-reduc-  renewed access to the international capital
tion operations.                                markets, through both debt and nondebt flows.
Aggregate net transfers are a measure of the  That pace accelerated in 1991. Borrowers from
cash flow supplied to a country by external     Mexico and Venezuela, both public corpora-
creditors and are the sum of net resource flows  tions and private-sector exporters, were able
less the cost of servicing external liabilities-  to tap  the bond  markets for substantial
that is, less interest on debt and profit remit-  amounts on increasingly improved   terms.
tances on FDI. Aggregate net transfers are      These issues, sold primarily in the Euromar-
estimated to have declined to $13.2 billion in  kets or placed privately in the United States,
1991 from $16.0 billion in 1990. The decrease,  totaled $2.7 billion equivalent. Argentina and
compared with an increase in net resource       Brazil regained access to the international
flows, is, in part, explained by an increase of  bond markets for the first time since 1982, with
$3.7 billion in actual interest payments made   new bond issues totaling $0.8 billion and $1.5
by some Latin American countries in 1991.       billion in 1991. respectively. This renewed
The regional pattern of net transfers became  access appears to be related to improved pros-
more differentiated in 1991. Net transfers to   pects for comprehensive debt and debt-service
Latin America became more negative and          reduction operations in these two countrtes.
reached -$8.6 billion in 1991, compared with      In addition, a number of corporations in
-$6.3 billion in 1990. In the Middle East and  developing countries, most notably in Mexico,


﻿Primary-commodity Market Conditions  41
issued equity shares abroad. The changing    tured goods from the G-5 countries to the
pattern of international capital flows toward  developing countries), the index fell to an
alternative forms of financing (such as bond or  all-time low. The importance of economic re-
equity issues), as distinct from traditional syn-  cession in shaping market trends in 1991 was
dicated credits, is attributed to several factors:  evident by the fact that the price indexes for all
generally tight credit conditions and capital  three major nonoil commodity groups (food
constraints facing international banks; the  and beverages, nonfood agriculture, and met-
greater role of institutional investors as a  als and minerals) declined. Economic difficul-
source of cross-border funds; an increased   ties in the Soviet Union and in Central and
supply of new bond instruments created in    Eastern Europe generally tended to lower
conjunction with debt and debt-service reduc-  commodity prices-except for basic food-
tion operations; market perception of im-    stuffs.
proved creditworthiness in some indebted de-   The price indexes for cereals and fats and
veloping countries that have successfully    oils were 2.0 percent and 3.0 percent higher,
implemented reform programs; and the fact    respectively, in 1991 than in the year before.
that bond debt has been fully serviced by all  However, a decline in beverage prices, by 5.9
major developing countries, including those  percent, and a 28.5 percent fall in sugar prices
(such as Argentina, Brazil, and Bulgaria) that  more than offset these increases, causing the
had incurred arrears on interest payments on  overall food and beverage index to decline.
bank loans. The improved investment climate  Coffee, cocoa, and tea prices hit all-time lows
in some Latin American countries resulted in a  in real terms. Substantially reduced imports of
20 percent increase-to an estimated $9.8 bil-  tea by the Soviet Union and Iraq were a
lion-in FDI flows to the region in 1991, com-  significant factor in the decline in tea prices.
pared with the previous year. About one third  Although expectations of a diminished 1991/92
of the FDI flow was facilitated by debt-equity  cocoa crop temporarily lifted cocoa prices near
conversion programs.                         the end of 1991, cocoa prices (and coffee
prices, as well) continued to reflect the in-
Primary-commodity Market Conditions          creased production capacity built up over the
The worldwide slowdown in economic activ-  past decade. World grain production in the
ity was the dominating factor behind primary-  1991/92 crop year was expected to decline by
commodity price movements in 1991. The       more than 4 percent compared with the previ-
World Bank's index of nonoil primary-com-    ous season. Grain stocks, especially of wheat,
modity prices in nominal dollars declined by  remained at relatively low levels, making the
4.8 percent, marking the third consecutive year  markets vulnerable to production shortfalls.
of such price declines (see Table 2-6). Mea-  Large export commitments to the Soviet
sured in constant dollars (using as the deflator  Union led to substantial increases in wheat
the unit value index of exports of manufac-  prices for most of 1991; nevertheless, the 1991
Table 2-6. Commodity Prices, 1984-91
(average annual percentage change)
Commodity price                        198the9 1989         1990      1991
In current-dollar terms
Food and beverages                    -1.9      -5.9     -7.6       -2.9
Nonfood agriculture                    0.1      -0ue1 1.0            -4.5
Metals and minerals                    9.1       4.2     -7.5       -9.6
Total nontoih 1                                -1.8    -6.4       -4 8
Petroleum                             -5.2      19.8      30.7      -18.8
In real terMSa
Total nonoil                          -4.8      -1.0     -11.4      -6.7
Petroleum                            -10.1      20.6      23.8      -20.3
In special drawing rights (SDR)
Total nonoil                          -2.7       3.0    -11.6       -4.9
Petroleum                             -8.2      25.6      23 5     -18.9
NOTE: Weights in the commodity-price indexes are commodity exports of all developing coontries.
a. Deflated by unit-value index of manufactures exports from the G-5 countries (trance Germany, Japan, the United
Kingdom, and the United States) to the developing countries.
Soutce: World Bank.


﻿42   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
average price represented a slight decline from  Trends in World Trade
the previous year. Rice prices increased, in
part the result of strong demand from the    The growth in the volume of world trade
Middle East and Latin America. After declin-  slackened to 3 percent during 1991 (see Table
ing somewhat during the first half of 1991, the  2-7), in marked contrast to the robust 7 per-
fats-and-oils price index more than regained  cent-to-9 percent growth experienced during
earlier losses in the second half of the year, as  the late 1980s. In nominal-dollar terms, exports
weather-related production shortfalls pushed  in 1991 increased by a mere 1.5 percent-down
up prices for palm oil and coconut oil. Produc-  from 13.5 percent growth in 1990. The flatten-
tion and stocks of sugar increased, substan-  ing out of export prices in dollars reflected the
tially weakening prices, particularly during the  switch from dollar depreciation in 1990 tc
second quarter of 1991.                    appreciation in 1991, the rise and fall of oil
Large production increases in the Northern  prices, and the continued decline of nonoil
Hemisphere, particularly in China, put down-  commodity prices. Trade in commercial serv-
ward pressure on cotton prices during the  ices was also affected by the economic slow-
second half of 1991. Increased exports from  down, increasing by only 5 percent, as com-
the Soviet Union, partly from the previous  pared with 17 percent in 1990.
year's crop, added to the pressure. Further  The lackluster growth in world trade was
downward pressure was exerted on cotton    attributable, in large measure, to the slowdown
prices by payments made by the U.S. govern-  in import demand in the industrial countries; it
ment to domestic mills and exporters to main-  was compounded, however, by the virtual col-
tain the competitiveness of U.S. cotton during  lapse of trade among the former members of
the period of plentiful supply. Natural rubber  the CMEA. Among the industrial countries,
prices declined mildly, mainly because of fur-  softening trends in investment spending, par-
ther cutbacks in automobile production.    ticularly in North America and Japan, served
The large decline in the metals and minerals  to dampen exports of capital goods. Some of
price index was led by aluminum, lead, and  these negative factors appeared to be on the
zinc. A combination of weak industrial demand  wane by early 1992, and growth of world trade
and relatively trouble-free production resulted  may have begun to rise again in the second half
in a large stock build-up, particularly at the  of 1991, according to preliminary figures.
London Metal Exchange. The Soviet Union's    Several developments in 1991 helped to sus-
release of stockpiled and surplus metals to  tam the momentum in world trade:
world markets considerably dampened prices   * Trade among European countries was sup-
of aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, and zinc.  ported by the process of unification in Ger-
Copper prices, however, have declined only  many, which not only resulted in a strong 11
moderately since 1989 and have been main-  percent advance in the volume of German
tained at a relatively high level compared with  imports but also sustained production and ex-
other metals. The main reason appears to have  ports in neighboring trading partners.
been continued supply problems, particularly  9 The tone of East Asian import demand,
in Zaire and Zambia, and fear of a major   underpinned by rapid growth in domestic de-
disruption to supplies from Chile.         mand among the countries of Southeast Asia
After the conclusion of the Gulf crisis, crude  and by a pronounced 18 percent rebound in
oil prices headed downward. Price movements  Chinese imports, remained firm. Trade among
reflected the way in which the Organization of  East Asian countries advanced by 17 percent
the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)   (in dollar value) during 1991 after having in-
adjusted its production to changing market  creased by 15 percent in the previous year.
conditions. Production in OPEC countries was  e The economic recovery under way in a
cut back in the second quarter of 1991, largely  number of Latin American countries provided
in an attempt to absorb excess stocks held in  a substantial 10.5 percent boost to that region's
fear of war-related disruptions and the sea-  import volumes.
sonal downturn in demand. In the second half  In value terms, however, only exports from
of the year, however, OPEC production in-  North America and Asia expanded-by 5.5
creased by about 1.2 million barrels per day,  and 11.5 percent, respectively. The value of
partly to accommodate the seasonal upturn in  exports from  all other regions declined
demand and to compensate for declines in   -mainly the result of declining prices for
non-OPEC supplies, particularly from the So-  petroleum and nonoil primary products.
viet Union. Because this production increase  In the developing countries, regional mer-
took place during an economic recession and  chandise-trade performance varied widely.
during a mild winter in the Northern Hemi-  Asia's export and import volumes, driven
sphere, stocks increased and prices declined,   mainly by the dynamic performance of the


﻿Trends in World Trade  43
Table 2-7. Selected Trade-performance Indicators, 1965-91
(average annual percentage change)
L,-I II Ir  , . ro,j   n ,nd.C i   . C-fI  it-1  1    111
I-. -'~   i,  ''Il/   -f*.,  hi&h
Import -.Iume                   411 -1             6 4     -
E\poi .-lumfe                   3.        4 I      I 6    -2I1
rernm%  oftr.d                    .1 -na3 1I                 na.
Imp"rr  .Olume                   I 4       -4  3    111      1.1,
E %por tolume   2                             -4 I      25
Tcrni  ,.  trade                 II 1     -4  -               n
-  Imp.r uare*                                        ."      11t
E\p -rt  .lunit                  - M         -        2      Lu 5
Terni, of tr,,&                 1.1 4    -1.2      1A      n.i
Lm.P, f-'r I SS~R
limpori -olunic                  4          2        -I    -h
E\.r 'oluie422)                                  -       -1
Ferm  i   r ide                 ".5      -ri u              r..
Ex   er11,  E, u ai .l           4       -i A  I,i       -
buitrareinal trde continued3o4grow,b
Ind peri 'irn-, -espIeiy a
E.pmc rt i.crme  by  oretha*1
r eret   of tride  byn4percent.
Exprtifo i su-Sahajrn Arc ure  p
a. sgicatiprovemernt ove thA. ecn
\%c.rld  o trlde4                          4S        i        ,
N,--,  Ir,A ,  - oui-  rre..' j  *n .-.riirni  ix- t7rI a ,rid  r%-g i rfri - Ifide  irc C 1iI.Aul ed  J, tr.c r11i
eclin pric  It.  ri vice
leading exporters of manufactures and by ro-  the below-average rate of 2.5 percent. Only in
bust intraregional trade, continued to grow, by  North America was growth of export volume
10.5 and  10.0 percent, respectively. Latin  brisk (6.5 percent). Imports fared only a little
American imports increased by more than 10   better; Japan's imports grew at 3 percent,
percent, and exports climbed by 4 percent.   North America's stagnated, and only EC im-
Exports from sub-Saharan Africa turned up-   ports increased above average-4.5 percent.
wards, increasing by 2.5 percent, representing  In the Uruguay Round of the multilateral
a    significant improvement over the 4.1 percent  trade negotiations under the General Agree-
decline in the previous year; slumbering im-  ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), agreement
ports also wakened, increasing by 2 percent.  continued to elude negotiators, and the out-
Exports from the Middle East and North Af-   come remains in doubt. Not A aspects of the
rica declined sharply (by 15 percent), as a  Draft Final Act satisfy all the objectives of the
result of the Gulf crisis and falling oil prices;  participants or the ambitions for a liberaliza-
imports declined dramatically (by 12 percent).  tion of trade that marked the Punta del Este
The trade volume of Central and Eastern Eu-  Declaration. However, in mid May, agreement
ropean countries continued its steep decline,  on a new European farm policy, involving
Growth in industrial-country trade was mea-  substantial cuts in grain-price supports and
ger: Japan's exports grew at an average rate of  lower production ceilings, was reached by the
3 percent, while exports from member coun-    European Community, providing a more posi-
tries of the European Community (EC) grew at  tive atmosphere for negotiations. Even if


﻿44   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
agreement were reached, much would remain  act as a spur to domestic production and a
to be done to secure open markets that offer  more efficient allocation of resources.
countries the full benefits of specialization  Whatever their justification, regional trade
through trade.                             arrangements are a significant part of the inter-
However, commitments are in prospect to  national trading environment. With the impor-
reduce tariffs on goods by at least 30 percent,  tant exception of Japan, most GAIT members
lower export subsidies and domestic-support  belong to some form of preferential trading
levels in agriculture, eliminate quantitative re-  scheme. Countries included in the two largest
strictions on textiles and clothing, eliminate  proposed free-trade areas-the European Eco-
voluntary export restraints, and open up mar-  nomic Area and the North American Free
ket access for services. The beneficial eco-  Trade Area-would collectively account for 65
nomic effect of trade liberalization on develop-  percent of global imports and 47 percent of
ing countries is difficult to quantify precisely,  developing-country exports.
although a number of studies have attempted  Although multilateralism need not be threat-
to do so. Even the most modest estimates of  ened by regional groupings, there is heightened
the gains that developing countries would en-  awareness of the risks of the new initiatives.
joy from industrial-country trade liberalization  By definition, regional arrangements, which
point to an amount at least equivalent to the  provide particular advantages to member
approximately $50 billion that industrial coun-  countries, can be discriminatory; only nondis-
tries transfer to developing countries annually  criminatory trade, however, fully ensures that
as official development assistance.        maximum benefits from trade accrue to all
Not all developing countries would benefit  parties. In addition to diverting normal pat-
to the same degree from multilateral trade  terns of trade, inward-looking regional ar-
liberalization. Some food-importing countries  rangements threaten to divert investment and
are concerned that trade liberalization in agri-  technology transfers that might otherwise have
culture would increase prices and lead to a  gone to nonmembers. Another fear is that an
deterioration in their terms of trade. To the  expansion of membership in arrangements
extent that this may occur, net food-importing  with protective features may intensify, rather
countries may require financial or other sup-  than attenuate, restrictions. Experience has
port while they adjust to new relative prices.  shown that there are clear limits to the prog-
Some countries, especially in sub-Saharan Af-  ress that regional arrangements can make in
rica and the Caribbean, fear that multilateral  liberalizing the most difficult and most heavily
trade liberalization would narrow or eliminate  protected areas. Concern has been expressed,
their preferential trade margins, leading to a  too, that the diversion of effort from multilat-
reduction in their exports. Again, some coun-  eral trade negotiations could weaken prospects
tries may require transitional support for ad-  for their success-even if the political will to
justment.                                  reach an agreement exists.
In general, however, the economic benefits  The risks associated with regional trading
from a successful conclusion to the Uruguay  arrangements can be avoided if the arrange-
Round would be considerable for both indus-  ments maintain an outward orientation. Ideally,
trial and developing countries. Failure would  they should lower trade barriers against non-
make it politically difficult for those developing  members and eliminate all internal trade barr-
countries that have undertaken trade reforms,  ers as quickly as possible. Where members of
or those considering such actions, to continue  regional arrangements have erected high barr-
down the road of liberalization.           ers to trade vis--vis nonmembers, these barr-
Since the mid 1980s, interest in regional  ers should be reduced in order to minimize the
trading arrangements has quickened. Existing  potential for diversion of trade and a misalloca-
schemes are being revived and extended (in  tion of resources. In this connection, a success-
membership and coverage), and new groupings  ful conclusion to the Uruguay Round would
are being formed and proposed. The belief that  help to reduce the potential adverse effects of
regional arrangements can strengthen multilat-  preferential trade arrangements.
eral negotiations-by building momentum for
more open markets-underlies some of these  The Environment
efforts. Some initiatives, particularly in Latin  Preparations for, and the convening in June
America, have arisen from the failure of in-  1992 of, the United Nations Conference on
ward-looking protective policies to produce  Environment and Development (UNCED)
higher economic growth;3 many countries be-  dominated the environmental agenda during
lieve that linkages to a strong trading partner in
a more open trading arrangement, by introduc-
ing and fostering greater competition, would  For detatis, see Box 6-3 on page 148.


﻿The Environment  45
fiscal 1992. The conference, charged with map-  waste, human health, poverty, and the ad-
ping out an environmentally sustainable devel-  vancement of women, was adopted  by
opment strategy for the coming decades, was  UNCED delegates. Also adopted was the "Rio
attended by delegations from 178 countries.  Declaration," a nonbinding statement of prin-
Two conventions were signed at the confer-  ciples for guiding environmental policy that
ence-on climate change and on biodiversity.  emphasizes protecting the environment as part
The climate-change convention has a nonbind-  of economic development, safeguarding the
ing requirement that industrial nations try to  ecological systems of other nations, and giving
reduce emissions of greenhouse gases to 1990  priority to the needs of developing countries,
levels by the year 2000. Both developed and  the "most environmentally vulnerable." And
developing countries are required to develop  it was agreed that a new institution, the Sus-
plans to control their emissions, which, in the  tamable Development Commission, would be
latter, are expected to grow substantially. The  set up to monitor compliance with the confer-
convention also commits the industrial nations  ence's environmental goals and to review the
to give developing countries financial help to  financial resources available for the implemen-
do this. The treaty will go into effect when fifty  tation of those goals. The commission is to be
nations ratify it. The convention on biodiver-  ratified by the United Nations General Assem-
sity requires signatories to establish policies  bly in September 1992.
aimed at slowing the loss of plant and animal  A nonbinding statement of forest principles,
species. It also requires signers to share re-  which recommends that countries assess the
search, profits, and technology with nations  impact of economic development on their for-
whose genetic resources they use. The treaty  ests and take steps, both individually and col-
takes effect when thirty nations ratify it.  lectively, to minimize the damage, was also
The Global Environment Facility, the three-  adopted.
year pilot project implemented jointly by the  Maurice Strong, the conference's executive
Bank, the United Nations Development Pro-  secretary, called the conference "a launch pad,
gramme, and the United Nations Environment  not a quick fix," and President Fernando Collor
Programme, was designated as the interim  de Mello of host country Brazil told delegates
financial mechanism for the two conventions.  that UNCED had consecrated the concept that
"Agenda 21," an 800-page blueprint for en-  human development and protection of the envi-
vironmentally friendly development, dealing  ronment were inexorably linked.
with such issues as ocean pollution, hazardous


﻿46
Section Three
The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
Implementing the Bank's                    design of country-specific strategies that ensure
Poverty-reduction Strategy                 that the Bank's programs support and comple-
ment countries' own efforts to reduce poverty.
In fiscal 1990, a major study of poverty,  Poverty assessments. A poverty assessment
World Development Report 1990, was pub-    provides the basis for a collaborative approach
lished by the Bank. It recommended that de-  to poverty reduction by country officials and
veloping countries adopt a two-part strategy  the Bank. It also helps to establish the agenda
for maximum effectiveness in reducing pov-  of issues for the policy dialogue between the
erty. The first part requires the encouragement  government and the Bank and between the
of broadly based economic growth that gener-  government and other donor agencies. The
ates demand for labor; the second part requires  scope of a poverty assessment necessarily var-
the provision of services in the social sectors-  ies from country to country, depending on the
especially primary education, basic health  country situation, the government's commit-
care, family planning, and nutrition-to im-  ment to poverty reduction, and the nature of
prove living conditions and increase the capac-  the available data.
ity of the poor to respond to whatever income-  The assessment makes recommendations for
earning opportunities may arise from economic  government action, including a phased pro-
growth. An additional but essential component  gram of policy reforms, reallocation of public
of the strategy is the establishment of a system  expenditures, and institutional development to
of targeted transfers and safety nets to assist  reduce poverty. The prescription is based on
those who are not able to respond to the new  an assessment of(a) the government's financial
opportunities.                             and   institutional capacity  to implement
Building on the findings in World Develop-  poverty-reducing programs and policies and
ment Report 1990, policies were adopted in  (b) political-economic considerations.
fiscal 1991 for fully integrating into Bank oper-  By the end of fiscal 1992, poverty assess-
ations the two-part approach for reducing pov-  ments had been completed for twenty coun-
erty. The urgency of the task is compelling:  tries (see Table 3-1). By the end of fiscal 1995,
According to World Development Report 1992,  it is anticipated that eighty-five assessments
the number of poor increased at almost the rate  will have been completed.
of population growth during the second half of  The number of completed poverty assess-
the 1980s. World Development Report 1990   ments varies among the Bank's six operational
had identified a path of poverty reduction that  regions.
could reduce the number of poor in the world  Country coverage in East Asia and South
by 300 million between 1985 and 2000. The  Asia, where over two thirds of the poor in
1992 report concludes, however, that such a  developing countries live, is nearly complete
target appears no longer feasible, partly as a  (except for countries that have recently be-
result of the severity of the current recession  come active borrowers), and work on the three
and the disappointing progress in the 1985-90  assessments scheduled to be completed in fis-
period, and that, in fact, the number of abso-  cal 1993 has begun. Most assessments are
lute poor in the world at the turn of the century  fairly comprehensive and include an analysis
will probably be higher than in 1985.      of the broad policy framework, the social sec-
The Bank's poverty-reduction efforts have  tors, and the effectiveness of specific targeted
two key elements. The first element consists of  interventions. Most rely on a fairly good infor-
the formulation of country-specific poverty as-  mation base, and, in some cases, efforts are
sessments that (a) establish whether specific  under way to improve both the quality of, and
government policies, public expenditures, and  access to, the data.
institutions are consistent with the goal of re-  Almost one third of the countries in the
ducing poverty and (b) recommend necessary  Latin America and the Caribbean region have
changes. The second element consists of the  completed an assessment, mostly focusing on


﻿Implementing the Bank's Poverty-reduction Strategy  47
Table 3-1. Poverty Assessments, Completed and Scheduleda
Scheduled
Completed                    Fiscal 1993           Fiscal 1994            Fiscal 1995
Bangladesh            Argentina              Albania                Angola
Bolivia               Benin                  Algeria                Burundi
Chile                 Brazil                  Bulgaria              Congo
China                 Burkina Faso           Cameroon               Equatorial Guinea
Costa Rica            Central African Republic  Chad                Gabon
Ecuador               Colombia               C6te d'Ivoire          Lao People's
Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador          Dominican Republic      Democratic Republic
India                 Guatemala              Ethiopia
Indonesia             Guinea                 The Gambia
Korea, Republic of    Guyana                 Ghana
Malawi                Honduras               Guinea-Bissau
Malaysia              Jamaica                Haiti
Mexico                Kenya                  Hungary
Mozambique            Mali                   Iran, Islamic Republic of
Nepal                 Mauritania             Jordan
Pakistan              Morocco                Madagascar
Paraguay              Niger                  Mauritius
Peru                  Poland                 Mongolia
Philippines           Romania                Nicaragua
Venezuela             Senegal                Nigeria
Sri Lanka              Panama
Tanzania               Papua New Guinea
Thailand               Rwanda
Togo                   Sierra Leone
Turkey                 Trinidad and Tobago
Uganda                 Tunisia
Uruguay
Yemen, Republic of
Zambia
Zimbabwe
a. Excludes inactive countries (Botswana, Cambodia, Liberia, Myanmar, Namibia, Somalia. Sudan, Viet Nam, and Zaire)
and countries with fewer than I million people (Belize, Cape Verde, Comoros, Djibouti, Fiji, Grenada, Kiribati, Maldives,
SAo Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Solomon Islands, Suriname, Swaziland, Tonga, and Vanuatu).
the social sectors. In the remaining countries in  however, that data-gathering exercises begin
the region, for the most part, an adequate     as soon as possible in countries where data are
information base exists, economic work on      currently lacking. Collecting data, however
selected topics has been completed, and com-   preliminary, requires considerable resources,
prehensive assessments are planned over the    and country policymakers will need technical
next two years.                                assistance not only to collect but also, in many
In the other three regions (Africa, Middle   cases, to analyze the data and to design strat-
East and North Africa, and Europe and Cen-     egies. This poses a major challenge, as poverty
tral Asia), country coverage is less extensive.  seems to be growing fastest in those countries
Only three assessments have been completed.    where knowledge of the problems and their
For the most part, progress has been con-      solutions are limited, as is the institutional
strained by the lack of data and weak institu-  ability to implement the necessary solutions.
tions.                                           Country-specific strategies. Although many
In many cases, assessments in these three    factors-political, institutional, and econo-
regions will have to be completed using inade-  mic-influence the design of country-specific
quate data and qualitative judgments. Basing   assistance strategies, a few general principles
assessments on national household survey data  do exist. The Bank's volume of lending will be
may not be feasible in many countries until the  linked to, among other things, a country's
second half of the decade. It is important'     efforts to reduce poverty, and the sectoral and


﻿48   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
intrasectoral composition of Bank lending will  grams to lay the basis for sustained output and
support efforts to reduce poverty.         employment growth while introducing targeted
Reducing poverty is a key objective of all  programs in the social sectors to protect the
Bank-supported assistance strategies. Never-  most vulnerable groups. This has meant that
theless, where poverty assessments have been  countries' own resources-in El Salvador,
completed, they have helped to strengthen the  Mexico, Panama, and Venezuela, for exam-
policy dialogue and to develop lending pro-  pie-have had to be reallocated to support
grams that support governments' efforts to  these interventions by eliminating general food
reduce poverty. The degree to which the find-  subsidies and replacing them with targeted
ings of poverty assessments have been re-  nutrition and health programs. Targeted assis--
flected in country-assistance strategies varies  tance to the poor has also been delivered to
from region to region and is influenced partly  those most at risk through the establishment of
by the scale and nature of poverty in a given  social funds that finance interventions and
country and partly by the country's own ca-  mobilize donor support in areas such as water
pacity to carry out assessments.           supply, sanitation, basic health, nutrition, and
Where assessments have not been com-      employment.
pleted, the Bank's traditional economic and  In sub-Saharan Africa, the Bank's poverty-
sector reports are often used to influence the  reducing country-assistance strategies have
design of assistance strategies. In some cases,  had to be designed in the absence of full data
the conclusions reached in an assessment,  and analysis. The Bank has supported adjust-
once completed, will necessitate changing the  ment programs that reduce explicit and implicit
strategy; in other cases, they will simply  taxation of agriculture and shift the terms of
strengthen the approach that the Bank is al-  trade in favor of the rural sector, that eliminate
ready taking.                              regulations restricting growth of employment
Government policies and Bank operations in  and private investment, and that redirect pub-
the East Asia and South Asia regions have a  tic expenditures towards the social sectors and
strong poverty-reduction focus. Most poverty  rural areas. Most investment lending consists
assessments have been completed, and, where  of projects in primary education, health, family
they have not, substantial background work is  planning, and rural development. In this re-
proceeding. On the whole, the Bank's lending  gion, poverty assessments are necessary to
program is supporting economic restructuring  confirm that these efforts are on the right track
and the reallocation of government spending  or to modify them if they are not.
toward the social services and specific targeted  Relatively few country-assistance strategies
investments.                               in the countries of the Middle East and North
Indonesia's poverty assessment, for exam-  Africa region have benefited from completed
ple, recommended investing in labor-intensive  poverty assessments. Their preparation has
export industries, stimulating nonrice crops  been delayed so that poverty-oriented sector
and smallholder treecrops to diversify agricul-  work under way in fiscal 1992 and scheduled
tural production, and expanding support serv-  for fiscal 1993 can be completed. Poverty as-
ices. It also recommended expanding access to  sessments, which will be completed for all
social services for people living in outlying  countries in the region by the end of fiscal
provinces. These recommendations are the ba-  1994, will therefore be more like summaries or
sis of the Bank's assistance strategy, which  compilations of completed work than stand-
aims to reduce trade and domestic distortions  alone documents. In Egypt, the region's only
and to promote growth in the rural outer is-  country in which a poverty assessment has
lands. In fiscal 1992, for example, the IBRD  been completed, assessment findings have in-
committed $87.6 million to help improve the  fluenced the Bank's assistance strategy in sev-
incomes of some 161,000 farm families living  eral ways: Interventions have been designed to
on five outer islands through the provision of  change the structure of growth; a medium-term
inputs, access tracks, extension, and training  program of interventions, principally in the
in support of the establishment or maintenance  social sectors and designed to increase the
of smallholder rubber and coconut plots.   productivity of the rural poor, is being pre-
In Latin America, as in the case of East Asia  pared; a social fund has been set up to provide
and South Asia, the design of country-     a short-term safety net for those adversely
assistance strategies has been influenced by  affected by current economic reforms and by
completed poverty assessments. Most poverty  the Gulf crisis; and analytical work is being
assessments-in some two thirds of the coun-  done on improving social security.
tries in the region-remain to be done, how-  Even in the absence of formal poverty as-
ever. In these countries, the Bank's general  sessments, the region's operational program
approach has been to design adjustment pro-  has paid considerable attention to poverty-


﻿Implementing the Bank's Poverty-reduction Strategy  49
reduction activities. An example is the second  age of poverty. Preliminary estimates of the PTI
structural-adjustment loan for Morocco that  indicate that during fiscal 1992, about 12 per-
was approved during the past year. The oper-  cent to 15 percent of Bank lending fell within
ation dealt with poverty not solely in the  this category.
context of the short-run costs of adjustment,  The Bank is also working to ensure that its
but more important, in the context of a long-  targeted projects are effective by encouraging
run strategy for poverty reduction. This strat-  local participation and involving nongovern-
egy will be incorporated into the government's  mental organizations (NGOs) in their design
forthcoming national economic and social-  and implementation. Experience shows that
development plan.                          where there has been participation by people at
In Europe and Central Asia, much has been  the local level, more progress has been made in
done quickly despite the absence of reliable  reducing poverty. As part of this effort, the
data on, and analysis of, poverty issues. Since  Bank is supporting a growing number of bene-
chronic poverty does not yet seem to be a  ficiary assessments, which are conducted by
serious problem, the priority has been to es-  local personnel, with orientation provided by
tablish safety nets to mitigate the short-term  the Bank. These assessments evaluate the
poverty that is expected to result from the  sociocultural conditions of the beneficiary pop-
restructuring process. The Bank's strategy has  ulation to ensure that benefits are reaching the
been to encourage governments to improve the  intended groups and that the projects provide
targeting of existing income-support systems.  the right kind of infrastructure and services for
The Bank is also helping countries, including  their needs. Twenty beneficiary assessments
Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, and Romania, de-  arc scheduled to be completed by the end of
velop employment-promotion programs and    fiscal 1993.
create sustainable programs of unemployment  Progress in improving data bases. Helping
compensation. Countries are also being en-  countries improve the quality and reliability of
couraged to improve their data bases to en-  their data on poverty is an important ingredient
hance future assistance.                   of country-assistance strategies. The Bank has
The Bank has been monitoring its targeted  provided financial support and technical assis-
poverty lending using an information system  tance to improve household data through the
that classifies all projects according to their  Living Standards Measurement Study and, in
primary objective. There are nine primary ob-  the Africa region, through the Social Dimen-
jectives, of which poverty is one. Projects that  sions of Adjustment program.
have as their primary objective the reduction  Much more needs to be done, however, to
of poverty include those designed to improve  improve the capacity for data gathering and
the productivity of small-scale farmers; to pro-  analysis in developing countries. Weak institu-
vide basic education, basic health care, nutri-  tions and sometimes adverse political condi-
tion services, and water supply and sanitation,  tions are the main constraints, particularly in
especially to women and children; and to pro-  sub-Saharan Africa. Because solving institu-
vide basic infrastructure in regions of concen-  tional weakness is a long-term endeavor, the
trated poverty. They also include social funds  Bank continues to encourage household sur-
and social-action programs, originally set up to  veys while collecting other data with sufficient
protect those affected by economic adjustment  value to serve as a basis for poverty assess-
but which today increasingly are targeted to  ments.
benefit the chronically poor.                Guiding Bank staff. To guide Bank staff in
This information system provides a rough  implementing the two-part strategy, an opera-
but low estimate of direct poverty lending.  tional directive (GD) on poverty reduction and
Poverty-related lending is underestimated be-  the Poverty Reduction Handbook were pre-
cause projects can have only one primary   pared and distributed to Bank staff during the
objective; thus, projects with important   year. The GD provides practical guidelines,
poverty-reducing effects-in human resources  while the handbook provides further details
or rural infrastructure-may be excluded.   and highlights examples of good practice. In a
A new system for monitoring the projects in  preface to the published version of the hand-
the "Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI)"  book and operational directive, the president
is currently being established. Under this sys-  of the Bank stated that sustainable poverty
tem, projects are classified as "poverty reduc-  reduction was the "overarching objective" of
ing" if they meet one of two criteria: inclusion  the Bank and that it was the benchmark by
of a specific mechanism for identifying and  which the Bank's performance as a develop-
reaching the poor or, where no such mechanism  ment institution would be measured.
is used, a level of participation of the poor that  In preparing the handbook, the Bank sought
significantly exceeds the countrywide percent-  comments from U.N. agencies, aid agencies,


﻿50   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
and NGOs. A draft of the handbook was     the analysis and advocacy of HRD. These
discussed at a meeting of the NGO-Bank Com-  factors, in conjunction with the Bank's ability
mittee, held in Suraj Kund in October 1991, as  to tailor its country-lending programs to its
well as at a seminar held one month later in  public policy pronouncements on HRD, have
Washington, D.C., with U.N. agencies and  given the Bank an important influence on the
multilateral development banks. The hand-  international HRD agenda.
book has been distributed widely around the  Wholesale changes in Bank support for HRD
world.                                    have occurred since the 1987 reorganization of
The executive directors discussed the drafts  the Bank, which fundamentally transformed a
of the handbook and the OD at a seminar in  relatively small and fragmented sector. Lend-
December 1991, where they stressed the im-  ing for HRD increased from less than 8 percent
portance of making the completed poverty  of total Bank lending in fiscal 1986 to more
assessments available to them, as well as to  than 13 percent in fiscal 1992. These levels of
donors and to U.N. agencies. They noted that  lending are expected to increase further.
implementing the strategy would have budget-  The expansion of HRD lending has meant,
ary costs and skill-mix implications for the  foremost, a rise in the Bank's support for basic
Bank, and they stressed the importance of  education and health services, including family
improving the Bank's implementation capac-  planning and nutrition (see Box 3-1).
ity, including its ability to promote institutional  Education. Lending for education and train-
development.                              ing averaged $700 million during the 1980s. In
Responsibility for implementing the Bank's  fiscal 1990, it more than doubled to nearly $1.5
strategy rests in the operational regions, while  billion; in fiscal 1991, it reached a record high
responsibility for monitoring poverty work and  $2.25 billion; and in fiscal 1992, lending for all
providing technical assistance to the regions is  types of education projects totaled $1,884 mil-
assigned to Sector and Operations Policy staff.  lion. A total of twenty-six projects in twenty
Improving aid coordination. The Bank is  countries were approved.
attempting to improve donor coordination of  The rapid growth in the volume of lending
poverty-reduction efforts. In September 1991,  for education has been accompanied by
the Bank discussed strategies to reduce pov-  changes in both the content and mode of
erty with high-level officials from developing  delivery of Bank assistance. Lending is in-
countries, from the U.N. and bilateral agencies,  creasingly shaped to support broad-based ed-
and from academia at a roundtable seminar in  ucation reforms and development strategies.
Berlin sponsored by the German Foundation for  The major thrusts of this policy-based lending
Development. The poverty-reduction OD in-  have been directed towards expanding educa-
structs country departments to share poverty  tional opportunities, especially at the primary
assessments and other reports analyzing spe-  level and for disadvantaged children; improv-
cific poverty issues in depth with donors  ing quality at all levels; and enhancing the
through consultative groups, roundtables, and  effectiveness of resource use in the sector.
other aid-coordination groups.              While these have been the thrusts of Bank
education lending for some time, recent opera-
Human-resource Development                tions have promoted, in a more vigorous and
The Bank's support for human-resource de-  well-targeted manner, policies to improve qual-
velopment (HRD) has evolved substantially  ity, build national capacities to assess and mon-
over the past quarter century. From a rela-  itor learning outcomes, reduce poverty and gen-
tively narrow focus on the development of  der inequalities, improve linkages between
human capital for productive purposes, human-  training and labor-market demands, and de-
resource development has become, in recent  velop national science and technology capacity.
years, one of the central pillars of the Bank's  The three most recent education-policy pa-
development-assistance strategy, seen as crit-  pers issued by the Bank, Education in sub-
ical to spurring economic growth, alleviating  Saharan Africa (issued in fiscal 1988), Primary
poverty, and effecting technological progress.  Education (fiscal 1990), and Vocational and
Concerns about education, health, nutrition,  Technical Education and Training (fiscal 1991)
population, training and employment, and the  all recommended increased priority to improv-
socioeconomic role of women in development  ing the quality and relevance of education. The
increasingly permeate all aspects of develop-  recommendations are being reflected in both
ment and the Bank's institutional priorities.  the Bank's sector work and lending. A $170
The growth in volume and the change in the  million loan to Chile to improve primary edu-
nature of Bank support for HRD have made  cation is a case in point.
the Bank a major partner in HRD efforts. The  Chile's education sector is at a crucial junc-
Bank has also become increasingly active in  ture. Having expanded the primary education


﻿Human-resource Development    51
Box 3-1. Commitments to Social-sector and Environmental Lending
The World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal year  an amount equivalent to 36 percent of total Bank
1991 made note of explicit and quantifiable com-  lending. The decline reflected the generaldecline
mitments that Barber Conable, the Bank's sev-  of commitments made in fiscal 1992 to the PHN
enth presidcnt. made that could be relaied to  sector Lending in -uppon of PHN aciities is
spectlk operational programs.                ekpected to resume it' up%ard trend in fi,cal
In Nlar,h 199t0 for instance Mr Conable said  1993 arid riscal 1994. ho%eier The onl% PHN
that the Bank nould doubiC its lending for edu-  prlieo, appro%ed during the %ear that mide no
cation V.%er the sulnequent three sear ito an  pro, iNion for primar% health care financed either
annual tigurc of more than $1 5 billion. In the  potertN reduction or ho.pitalrehabiiation ac
penod fical sears l9c0.-92. education lendinr  1itiec
totaled I1 i billion. 52.3 billion. and Sl.9 billion.  Ina upeechtothe international Planned Parent-
respcctiell. for an a,erage *L.Y billion    hood Federation in Otta  Nt%emner 19&9i. NIr
In correspondence with Jaier Perez de Cuel-  Conable id that Bank lending to the population.
lar. then secretar% general of the Lnited Nanons.  health, and nution sector %ould increas to an
and Brin Mulrones. prime minister of Canada.  ,%eruge Si0i million dunng the subsequent three
KIr. Cunablic rote iianuan 1991 and September  Sear' n compared %ith $iffl million dunng the
1"o. re,pectiel.% i that the Bank intended to  penod fiscal 1'49. Total Bank lending for pop-
triple Bank lending for pnmar, education. %hich  ulaton. health. and nutntion amounied to S933
amounted to $5150 millon in fiscal 199i. Junng  million. SI 6 hillion, and 8962 million in fiscal
the period fiscal 1991-93 Such lending. he %roie.  %ears 1990, 199l. and 1992. tesectiel%. far e%-
%ould account for around 30 percent to 40 per-  cceding the ioal set in lte 19S9.
cent of total educanon lending Bank commil-   Finall% in a peech ei%en at thc Tok,o Con
ments to pnmar, education in fiscal %ear, 1991  ference on the Global En%ironment and Human
and 1h92 totaled $1 11-1 million 134 percent of the  Respin,e io%%ard Su4tainable Devtlopmeri iSep
totali and *ci' million W42 percenti. respectiel.  tember 1"i. Nr. Conable aid thot Bank sup
In these letter, Nir Conable alho projecicd  port for freestanding en%ironmental pro[ccts %,as
that Bank lending for primarS health care might  espected toamount to neArl% SI 3illion - ithin a
rise from about 3 per ent to about 5 percent of  threeer penod That e%pectanon %a% met in
total lendlng .ithin a three-to-four-%ear period  fiscal IVYI. hen fourleen proiect. %kith primarh
In tr'cal 1991 il.22i million in Bank funds 'up.  en-ironnentL ohiectites %kre appro,ed. repre
ported primrs health care, accounting for 5 4  senting lending of about $1.5 billion In fscal
percent of total Bank lending In fi,cal 1992. $78s  492. ninetecn such prcgect%. repre enting ;I2
milliorn %%zus committed for primarN health care, billion in lending. ktere approwed
system to attain virtual universal coverage, the  (PHN) has increased rapidly, as well, since the
challenge ahead is to ensure equity in access to  five-year period fiscal 1983-87, when annual
primary education of high quality while con-    lending averaged $205 million. In fiscal 1992,
currently enhancing the internal efficiency of  lending to the sector totaled $961.7 million, a
the  system. This   will necessitate  major     decrease over the fiscal 1991 total of $1.6
changes in existing educational policies and   billion. Sixteen projects in fourteen countries
approaches, financing mechanisms, and ad-       were approved.
ministration and management. Expansion of         The nature of projects in the PHN sector is
preschool opportunities for disadvantaged chil-  also changing. As PuN has increasingly been
dren is an essential corollary to improvements  integrated more fully into the Bank's overall
in primary education performance.               country-assistance strategies, more projects are
The project comprises an integral part of the  addressing PHN  and    other components to-
Bank's overall country-assistance strategy to   gether, and sector work is preparing the ground
reduce poverty. Specifically, it will institute  for dialogue and operations in integrated hu-
cost-effective measures to increase educa-      man-resource and social-sector activities.
tional opportunities for low-income urban and     Many projects now   involve multiple line
rural children, a problem that has been identi-  ministries and require significant coordination
fled as a central concern in the Bank's recent  among different parts of the government.
social-sector work. The Bank's involvement is  While these projects may be more complex and
also facilitating a strong private-sector role and  risky, they promise long-term payoffs as pre-
is reinforcing the decentralization of social   viously excluded ministries, particularly cen-
services.                                      tral ministries (such as planning and finance),
Population, health, and nutrition. Bank       are drawn toward a stronger commitment to
lending for population, health, and nutrition   social programs.


﻿52   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
The involvement of nongovernmental orga-  for health-policy formulation, program plan-
nizations (NGOs) in PHN projects is also on  ning, and management. Greater attention is
the increase. In nearly all the PHN projects  also being paid to women's health and its effect
approved during the year, NGOs will assume  on the health and welfare of families, to the
important roles in project implementation. To  eradication of selected diseases, and to the
a lesser, but still significant, extent, NGOs are  economic management of the health sector,
participating in the design of projects-espe-  including investments in district-level hospi-
cially those involving social funds, where their  tals.
role results in project design and implementa-  Fiscal 1992 saw Bank lending targeted at the
tion that is directly responsive to the local  prevention or eradication of specific diseases
populations.                               in four countries: schistosomiasis and tubercu-
The widening context within which popula-  losis in China, schistosomiasis in Egypt, AIDS
tion activities have been carried out since they  in India, and malaria in Sdo Tomd and Princ-
began in 1970-their integration with health  ipe. The $84 million AIDS project in India was
and nutrition in 1980, and since 1987, with  the Bank's second freestanding project de-
other social-sector operations, as well-has  signed to prevent the spread of that disease
been associated at each stage with consider-  (see Box 3-2).
able expansion in both the number of projects  Lending for Bank-supported nutrition activ-
and the volume of lending. In the fiscal 1980-87  ities has also increased, rising from $82.1 mil-
period, yearly commitments for population  lion in the period fiscal 1984-87 to $778.9
projects averaged $50 million. In the five fol-  million during fiscal 1988-91. The current gen-
lowing years, annual commitments averaged  eration of nutrition projects and components
$166 million.                              emphasizes integrated interventions targeted
Especially noteworthy has been the rapid  at improving the nutrition status of the most
expansion of population lending in Africa, fol-  vulnerable groups: the food insecure, with par-
lowing the efforts of the Bank and other donors  ticular emphasis on pregnant/lactating women
to support countries through an "Agenda for  and children three years and younger. Moni-
Action to Improve the Implementation of Pop-  toring a child's growth and related nutrition
ulation Programs." Recent operations empha-  education and food supplementation for those
size the need to (a) increase access to family-  whose growth is faltering form the core of
planning services (especially for people who  many Bank nutrition components. Delivery of
are hard to reach) and to mobilize private-  vitamin and mineral supplements and a grow-
sector resources to help in the provision of  ing interest in food fortification represent areas
services; (b) raise the quality of and increase  of new development and expansion of the
demand for family planning; (c) integrate fam-  Bank's nutrition work. Experiments with self-
ily planning into a broader array of health-care  targeting of consumer food subsidies through
services, particularly maternal and child  packaging designed for rejection by the higher-
health; (d) strengthen program management  income groups and with improved means tests
and technical capacity; and (e) coordinate  for income-transfer programs are characteristic
more fully with other donor agencies and local  of increased attention to enhanced cost-effec-
institutions in order to leverage the Bank's  tiveness of nutrition interventions.
support with grant assistance and to build   Attention to nutrition concerns continues
country commitment and infrastructure.     to be a focus of Bank adjustment lending. In
In Mauritania, for example, a $15.7 million  Zimbabwe, which received $175 million in
IDA credit, approved in fiscal 1992, is facilitat-  Bank finance in support of structural adjust-
ing the integration of family planning into the  ment during the year, the accessibility and
standard package of services offered in public-  affordability of maize (the most essential diet
health facilities. By the end of the project,  staple) to poor and vulnerable groups are crit-
family-planning services will be extended to all  ical from a social point of view. Even before
the health centers in the country, with a major  the recent drought, it was likely that the price
positive effect on the welfare of mothers and  of maize would increase, for as part of its
children. By helping the government to estab-  adjustment program, the government had
lish a clear policy on population issues, the  pledged to cut its subsidy to the Grain Market-
project will also help to establish the legitimacy  ing Board. To minimize upward pressure on
of family-planning activities and reinforce their  the price of maize and to increase the effi-
effectiveness.                             ciency of its distribution system, the govern-
While Bank lending for health has main-  ment announced its intention to liberalize grain
tained a central focus on primary health care,  marketing and provide a commodity-specific
lending operations in recent years have in-  subsidy, to be financed from a social-develop-
creasingly emphasized strengthening capacity  ment fund. In addition, to ensure that the


﻿Human-resource Development    53
Box 3-2. World Bank Activities on AIDS
The first World Bank lending in support of AIDS  In Central and Eastern Europe, as well as in
control was to the Africa region and was pro-  the Middle East and Noah Africa, the Bank's
vided as a component in the Zimbabwe Family  involvement in AIDS control has been limited
Health Project. approved in fiscal 1987. Because  because borrowing countries have had adequate
Srant financig for national .1DS progim%rmi %  alteriti%e fundirnm  oi,e  Hover r. cinaClw
plenttill Irom the %%,.rld Health Oirg.nizatin  hae hecn inild het'. cen the Bank .nd the
Ciobal Pro-ranime on \IDS and hilteral donor,.  republic ol-ihe forrner So' et L nitn tn po-itIe
Bark loar and crednt Oere at ti i1uefil pri-  re'%-arkh ard prttciprepation acii : i
naril in <horin: up ihe foundation' M health  NIDS pie'enion
ii  entl  on  w hich  AIDS  proer,m,  %,ere  con-  .  -z i.-'. I  _.J  1-%-      In
,tructed and 'n tilling gap' Hov.e% er. .i, the  19,4ti. the Hank  Lentr.l POpUlAion. Heallh arid
numtcr and the iorpflike CAp.t 1l; of  IDi  Nutrition Depirinierl rvct.cifih eriot,n,
progr ini incrcaed oiiuntrie, beLan t, twque't  ot thc AIDS epidemik Lnd re,oninrended that
the Bani. to pla a L.irer role The fir,t Bank  Bank ae oftered       t3orr,.%,r CLlan.
iieestanding \IDS prUtect wa. ain $Is milliin  Ine, "here'cr pitic and appropriate Sibse
credit t, Zaire in tIcal lijey In addition. Bank  oticntk. r[ rp.'r''e v, a reque't fron the Clob.l
health protietCt in Burundi. Le,olho. and  ali rograme on AS. the B.ink acreed to a-ist in
ha'e included tunding for -ubtantal part' if  C;ttMAing the etinomic vtfec i ot a Ca,C of HIIX
thk',e counriv.' AlDS-control program     mfcciion. Th- iork %%, concluded in ls.
In Lain .1nert and the Caritbe-n legion. IhL  Mire tecentl% in rc,pon'c to ihe perL-ted real
*ecre Cpiderni, ti Brazil led to the inciu-ion oi  t. prioitie nt- r crnion, in rational A DSt.in
it-t. AlDS comptnents in .t Bank projectp   rl progr.m, _ oil  totawd on the i'and
proed LT [1Cal I'4h One 1mponeni linanced  ct,it . iaiernaie trier'enton; rht- ork
re,carch on the piet alence and economic effect  conibtd io the collaboration beivecn the
of AIDS the other 1.a de'1.ncd to help tontrl  Bank  Nuihcrri \rtca Deparient ind thu pro-
the d-case in the northt.il region o1 the countr.  Lramnme tn : coniprehen-ite anak,i' 01 the m-
.A Bank project in H.tiii albo fund. .AIDS control  p.ki ot the epden, and tht c0,i-ellcti\cre- Ol
and a e,econd more comprehen,i%e pr.Jeci i'  ahvrnai%e inirniot' in Tin.-ima
undei JI'11-ron in Bra.il                   in adtio io the Hank  anat, ical oir. ihe
Le', i, kno%n aboUt ihe cuirrent preialence  Banks Specil Grant! Prmrrt- ha, coninhuted
and rate of  pread of AM  in the 1,a regi..n than  I million in e ' the pa,i tour iCaito the
in Alric. or Latin Amrica Ho' e%er. it i, no..  Global Progtraie  Tht. prvgrmnie 4 uink
apparent that an t-trcmelk r.tid epidcrmic hs  thee fund' li sitengthen -t, oilA-oratt'e -,ork
began in [hal.and ond thatl A eriou' epidemic i on te link,4heit' er k[DS andt
undet w.a in Indi.. The Rank' 4econd iree-  i1pical t     nd human reprodmitn and tL.
Aandin .IDS-control proetki. in India.  s. ap-  tin operational it edrch on tie co,t-eftectn-.ee
proted h the e      deciti Jdrctor, in lical l'19  n- i alternai. e AIDS inter'nitn,
In tddilon to funding a maor inprOCTment in the  The Bank  poliN. re4carch. and  iork
,alet* iI Indsa hl,od suppl\. ihi proicti em-  ernph,oize, the need tc. recoLmni. H l t
ph.tie, te control of Ae muall tran,mitied di - a u   trinnted diea'e ani to iarc,t
ease, The B ink i. in the earl\ 't ees ot a polut  inter',ention, to the v,.uali n;st a [OUsL
dialogue con A1S in the Philippine, and Indone-  Ot [he populotion in order T) t,C rno1 ef[Lct -
la.  ..heie  rig rou,  .1D O S *,it w llance  i,  lujt  ac, ernmLnt;  ', rce  hUitan  and  fin n  td  re.-
bectnnin.,.                                 'o rae,
social effects of adjustment are closely moni-  tors. Most education projects included gender-
tored, a major health and nutrition survey is   specific activity, while all projects in the
scheduled to be carried out, and the nutrition-  population, health, and nutrition sector in-
al-surveillance  system  of the Ministry  of    cluded such activity. Gender issues are in-
Health is being strengthened so that the data   creasingly being addressed in infrastructure
collected can be used on a monthly basis to     projects (one out of every three as compared
monitor the effects of adjustment.              with one in five in fiscal 1991), in particular,
Women in development. The progress made      those that focus on rural water supply (China
in previous fiscal years in integrating gender  and Lesotho) and feeder roads (Ghana).
issues into Bank activities was sustained in      Increased attention was devoted to imple-
fiscal 1992. More than 40 percent of projects   mentation in fiscal 1992. Staff from the Bank's
approved during the year had gender-specific    regional women-in-development (WID) units
actions. These projects continue to be concen-  provided direct support for the supervision of
trated in the human-resource and social sec-    projects with WID activities or components.


﻿54   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
To help mitigate problems in project imple-  projects had a high WID impact. In light of this
mentation in the Middle East and North Africa  experience, the follow-up project, the Social
region, the Bank launched special WID super-  Investment Fund, has targeted investments
vision missions for all WID-related projects in  and services to reach low-income women
a particular sector. The experience to date  through, for example, provision of day-care
from these supervision missions with respect  centers for children and literacy and training
to agricultural projects in Yemen and Morocco  programs that specifically encourage the par-
has been positive. Remarkable progress has  ticipation of women.
been made in the implementation of Morocco's  The significant expansion in Bank lending
National Agricultural Credit Project: The num-  for all types of HRD operations demonstrates
ber of women borrowers has increased by 250  that countries are no longer reluctant to seek
percent in the past four years, the volume of  Bank assistance for human development or to
lending to women has increased fourfold, and  borrow for it on IBRD terms. Both IDA and
the repayment rate is close to 100 percent.  IBRD borrowers are now requesting expanded
In addition, comprehensive reviews of im-  assistance in every facet of HRD programs,
plementation were carried out in the Europe  including some (family planning, for instance)
and Central Asia, Middle East and North Af-  where grant assistance used to be readily avail-
rica, and Latin America and the Caribbean  able.
regions; selected sectoral reviews (agriculture  Three features of the Bank's current HRD
in the East Asia and Pacific and South Asia  lending program stand out:
regions, and environment in the Africa region)  * Education no longer dominates the sector.
were undertaken; and a Bankwide review of  Lending for PHN is continuing to grow, while
experience in providing enterprise-develop-  lending for education is stabilizing. By fiscal
ment and financial services to women was    1994, the volume of education and PHN lend-
conducted. These reviews reinforced earlier  ing is expected to be roughly equal.
findings-that the most effective way for the  * Social-sector  projects  are  emerging,
Bank to address gender issues is through a  mainly designed to protect the poor during
combination of measures to increase women's  periods of economic  adjustment. These
access to assets and productive resources and  projects are typically designed to provide edu-
to labor markets: adult education and training  cation and training services and to support
programs, support to nongovernmental organi-  targeted health and nutrition interventions. In-
zations for training and mobilizing women,  stitutionally, they aim to bolster the capacity of
recruitment of female project staff, gender  governments to channel services to the poor
sensitization of borrower and Bank staff, and  and to monitor the impact of these poticies at
systematic assessments of project effects on  the household level.
women's productivity. This approach has been  * The Bank's human-resource development
adopted in India for training groups of women  investment portfolio is a recent one: More than
cultivators in the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural  half of all Bank lending, by (constant) dollar
Services Project. In Africa, comparable les-  volume, for HRD has taken place since fiscal
sons are being drawn from projects centered  1987: about two thirds of all lending for PHN
on the delivery of rural services.         has taken place in that period. This means that
In the social sectors, experience from the  information on project outcomes is limited and
Pakistan Family Welfare Project and other  that much of what is known relates to a port-
health projects in all regions confirms that  folio that was designed and implemented under
availability of primary health-care services is a  conditions substantially different from those
prerequisite for achieving progress in family  that have prevailed in the past five years.
planning, as well as in maternal and child care.  In tandem with the expanded volume of
In the education sector, improvements in girls'  lending for HRD, an evolution in lending ob-
school enrollment and attendance are being  jectives has also taken place-from an empha-
achieved through various innovative ap-    sis on the provision of physical infrastructure
proaches. For example, scholarships to be  to sectorwide and policy-based strategies. This
provided under an education project in Bang-  evolution has been driven by the accumulating
ladesh will help girls offset the income they  evidence that an effective and coherent frame-
would forgo while going to secondary school.  work for social policy is essential for sustained
The importance of drawing lessons from   economic progress.
previous operations for the design of new ones  The result, at one level, has been a strength-
has been especially highlighted in the case of  ened focus on poverty reduction through inten-
Bolivia. The supervision of phase one and   sified support for primary-level services and,
phase two of that country's Emergency Social  at another level, the emergence of lending
Fund indicated that few   social-assistance  priorities that aim to increase the productivity


﻿The Environment  55
of the labor force through better health, basic  output. Environmental impacts need to be rec-
education, advanced training, and access to  ognized; policies aimed at changing behavior
new technology.                           should rely, among other things, on economic
incentives. Early action to prevent degradation
The Environment                           will usually be much cheaper than attempting
World Development Report 1992, which ex-  to reverse it later.
plores the links between economic develop-  Appropriate policy reforms and institutional
ment and the environment, has concluded that  changes face formidable obstacles, the study
continued, and even accelerated, economic  recognizes. Interest groups will complain, pub-
and human development is sustainable and can  lic opinion will focus on the most dramatic
be consistent with improving environmental  issues rather than the most important ones,
conditions-i major policy, program, and in-  and oftentimes, government itself is the agent
stitutional shifts take place. The report cau-  of environmental damage.
tions, "Without adequate environmental pro-  Responsive and effective institutions must
tection, development will be undermined;  be developed. Information and analysis must
without development, environmental protec-  be improved to assist in setting priorities and
tion will fail."                          formulating policies. More work is needed to
Two types of policies are required to ensure  develop environmental-economic accounting
sustainable economic and human development  tools to enable this to happen. Public partici-
that is consistent with improving environmen-  pation, especially at the local level, is essential
tal conditions, the study says: those that build  for policymaking, monitoring, and enforce-
on the positive links between development and  ment, and for project design, as well. In some
the environment, and those that break the  cases, governments need to allocate the man-
negative links.                           agement of natural resources to individuals or
Many policies justified on conventional eco-  communities, and whenever possible, they
nomic grounds alone can deliver substantial  need to use price and tax incentives to encour-
environmental gains, the study notes. Elim-  age conservation. Often, simple but blunt pol-
inating subsidies for energy use and water,  icies-such as taxes on polluting inputs and
giving poor farmers property rights to the land  area-based forestry charges-may be prefera-
they tend, and investing in better sanitation  ble because they are more easily administered
and water supplies are measures that can raise  and enforced. Furthermore, promotion of al-
incomes and improve the environment. Poli-  ternative modes of transport, like nonmotor-
cies for efficient growth can complement those  ized vehicles, can dramatically improve living
for environmental protection, the report ob-  conditions, especially in urban areas.
serves. Improving education for girls may be  Many investments aimed at protecting the
the most important long-term environmental  environment will begin to pay for themselves
policy in the developing world, since, for ex-  within a few years, the study maintains, either
ample, educated women have smaller families  through increased productivity or improved
and are able to make better use of natural  health and welfare. The costs of enabling coun-
resources.                                tries to develop in an environmentally sound
These "win-win"   policies-development  manner are likely to be large in absolute terms
policies that are good for the environ-   but small in relation to resources generated by
ment-will not be enough, however. Strong  economic growth. The cost of investments
public institutions and environmental-protec-  suggested in the report may rise to about $75
tion policies are essential. There may be situ-  billion annually, or about 1.4 percent of devel-
ations requiring tradeoffs between income  oping-country gross domestic product over the
growth and protection of the environment;  current decade.
these call for careful assessments of the bene-  If governments can provide appropriate in-
fits and costs of alternative policies as they  centive and disincentive structures that ade-
affect both today's population and that of the  quately reflect external environmental costs,
future.                                   most required environmental investments and
"The evidence indicates that the gains from  maintenance will be undertaken by enter-
protecting the environment are often high and  prises, and the extra costs will be reflected in
that the costs in forgone income are modest if  prices paid by consumers. The choices that
appropriate policies are adopted," the report  result will make environmentally desirable
declares.                                 practices more profitable and attractive.
Policy reforms must focus on changing agri-  Financing these environmental investments
cultural and industrial practices so as to reduce  will require an expansion of private and official
drastically the amount of pollution, wastes,  capital flows to developing countries, the re-
and other environmental damage per unit of  port states. World Development Report 1992


﻿56   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
advocates that this expanded funding should  The framework for the Bank's assistance on
be additional to development aid that would  environmental issues in the Africa region is the
otherwise be made available.               national environmental-action plan (NEAP). A
By defining the application of economic pol-  NEAP, which provides a framework for inte-
icies and methods to protection of natural  grating environmental issues in a country's
resources to ensure that economic develop-  economic and social development, is prepared
ment programs are environmentally responsi-  by each country in coordination with the donor
ble and sustainable, World Development Re-  community. To aid in the process, a NEAP
port 1992 was a major contribution to the U.N.  Secretariat has been established in the African
Conference on Environment and Development  Development Bank in Abidjan with World
(UNCED), held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992.  Bank and other donor support. The secretariat
As that conference touched on all aspects of  will draw on the skills of Africans experienced
environment and development, it was of un-  in the NEAP process to provide training and
usual significance for the Bank, which, in turn,  technical assistance to countries that are just
accorded great importance to preparations for,  starting the NEAP process. To date, about
and participation in, the meeting itself. In  twenty countries are involved in implementing
addition to preparing and publishing World  or preparing NEAPs.
Development Report 1992, the Bank:           Of the seventy-seven projects approved by
* established a high-level office of UNCED  the Bank for the region in fiscal 1992, six (in
coordination, with an extensive network of  Angola, Benin, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, and Tan-
lead advisers responsible for developing Bank  zania) focused primarily oh improved environ-
policies and positions on every aspect of the  mental management, compared with three in
conference agenda; and                     the previous year. In addition, environmental
* actively participated in, and contributed  components were included in a large number of
to, substantive working parties, preparatory  operations.
meetings, and related conferences.           As elsewhere in the Bank, the environmental
The Bank also recognized the special impor-  strategy of the East Asia and Pacific and South
tance of UNCED by sending a delegation, led  Asia regions consists of combining more strin-
by its president, whose address to the confer-  gent environmental assessment of projects
ence gave new direction and priority to the  with a range of nonproject activities designed
Bank's efforts to promote sustainable develop-  to improve the ability of governments to man-
ment.                                      age their resources. The nonproject activities
The Bank's active participation in all aspects  include support to national environmental-
of UNCED contributed to the strengthening of  action plans and prioritization of future envi-
its environmental activities. Developments and  ronmental investments; strengthening of local
agreements in UNCED working groups on      institutions that create and implement environ-
topics ranging from  biodiversity, climate,  mental policies and regulations; and funding of
freshwater and marine resources, and sustain-  analytical work in key technical areas. During
able agriculture have been integrated into Bank  fiscal 1992, eighteen projects had environmen-
policies on forestry, energy, urban develop-  tal components. Most of the eighteen projects
ment, and other sectors (see Box 3-3 for a  were in either the energy sector or the agricul-
report on the Bank's forest-sector policy).  ture sector. In addition, environmental-assess-
Continued progress was made during fiscal  ment work is under way for nearly sixty
1992 in integrating environmental concerns  projects.
into the Bank's operations. Of the 222 projects  As diverse as they are, all the developing
approved during the year, nineteen had primar-  countries in the Europe and Central Asia re-
ily environmental objectives (projects are  gion share some common ground: They face
deemed to be "primarily environmental" if  serious environmental problems. The most se-
either environmental costs or benefits exceed  rious are linked to energy use (particularly high
50 percent of total costs or benefits). The  energy intensity per unit of production).
nineteen projects represented total lending of  Throughout the region, brown coal is burned in
about $1.2 billion. In addition, many projects  power plants, home furnaces, and in industrial
were approved during the year which, while  boilers. Poor-quality fuels, outdated conver-
not primarily environmental, addressed one or  sion technology, and gross inefficiencies in
more environmental issues. Of the 222 projects  energy use all contribute to some of the highest
approved, forty-three had environmental com-  air-pollution levels ever recorded. A $246 mil-
ponents (eleven in Africa, sixteen in Asia, ten  lion project in Czechoslovakia, approved dur-
in Latin America and the Caribbean, and six in  ing fiscal 1992, has earmarked $140 million for
the Europe and Central Asia and Middle East  flue gas-desulfurization equipment and $70 mil-
and North Africa regions).                 lion for reducing particulate emissions at a


﻿The Environment   57
Box 3-3. Forestry Policy
According to a World Bank policy paper, The      These two principal challenges in the forestry
Forest Sector, a critical feature of the forestry  sector can be met only through commitment at
sector that distinguishes it from most other pri-  the highest levels of government to reform.
mary activities is that private costs and benefits  The World Bank stands ready to assist govern-
usually diverge markedly from national and ments in introducing reforms. Bank involvement
global costs and benefits. The existence of these  in the sector is designed as a component of a
externalities implies that the free interplay of  multisectoral approach. To relieve the fundamen-
market forces may not bring about socially de-  tal pressures on forests over the longer term, the
sired outcomes.                                Bank, through its normal mechanisms, is continu-
Some of these externalities are national costs,  ing to support population policies, agricultural
while others are costs that affect the international  intensification, poverty reduction, and creation of
community. Because the people who cut or plant  employment opportunities in other sectors. It is
trees typically have little incentive to consider  heightening, however, the attention it pays to, and
the consequences of their actions, externalities  minimizing the potentially negative effects of, in-
inexorably lead to excessive deforestation and  frastructure and other land-using projects.
insufficient planting of new trees.              In its efforts directly related to the forestry
Of the various challenges that arise from this  sector-aid coordination, country dialogue, sec-
divergence between private and social interests,  tor work, and lending-the Bank is focusing on
two stand out as deserving special attention. the international cooperation (through support for
pohic% 'tud. l..'.  the tir,i , to preerat    the a.p[ion of international legal instruments
%I%e rT.ki Lit dcfore.titior  ti  [he irop.   .nt,i%e to sustainable forest development and
icil m.io trieo. The -cind i I%1 en,ure idu-  con-rkjiion), policy reform  and institutional
quite pl,ntin  t n,% trce 10 meet th, rpidk  itLngilieriing of borrowing member govern-
cri. inp Jlcmand f-r fuel cod                   nt,. expansion of its efforts to finance the
The polic. p.,rer l,.. .iit. ., fouriold til tct:  Ir.ji,ri of additional forest resources, and sup-
in check deioretaiiin First. uvnertl ecunoic   port for Initiatives toexpandforestareas as parks
de;.eloprrien-inCludine increasvd ditersili,a.  irio rcserves and to institute effective manage-
in oI the naiort if coinorit, reduiiori in Ir-  ment rd enforcement in new and existing areas.
Qualwi. .nd po-.,rrk.  d  101,r                 In tropical moist forests, the Bank has
LrOs, [i-i, rie,e. %,tr% for .a Int.-ierrr, ilution i  aoorteu. and will encourage governments to
th. problem of delore;t.ain In the intern.,   Ai     Precautionary policy towards their utili-
priorit% %huld h iaen l% !ncre.olne a-ricultur..I  z,iwn I his policy is motivated by the uncertain-
Produti i in POI=r. den elI popul.ted are.s  iie re;rding full valuation of environmental
especill. tho;e adjacenf To fore,ted reas ti   di      the inadequacy of knowledge regarding
those from .here most ftresi enmrojcher. on,-  4utiinalhle management systems, and the irre-
rJt. Und III epAnding ninLm  empoiTent    -er-ihies associated with the loss of tropical
opportunit.:s in these tireetrc:'             mr.t.tests, Specifically, the Bank does not-
Second tore,i prowetion %,ill need to be en-  under  ny circumstances-finance commercial
iurcd throuch speill. leisl tiOn and rcouixlor  -!nL in primary tropical moist forests.
ric.iiUre. e.pecoi  in the tropica. n.oi%i ri%.  in all countries and for all types of forests,
1 hird. pr!%.iie inLentl\e  itor .ricultural   opvr.vions by the Bank in theforestry sector will
-ind lilger, alikc, need i0 be ch,irgd. br en-  disDriguiih between projects that are clearly en-
toremreni ot zorin  and other rec-,uins  .      rientaly protective, or that are small-
likc h to he ineflecti  unles ite .rc  Foir(h  f.rn  oriented, and other forestry operations.
pubbr in, e-nteris need to bi preceded hb much  The 6r-I two are to be considered on the basis of
more c.reful en, ironmenial .-e-tments       ibeii   n social, economic, and environmental
The second chiilenge. 1i meet the cro,n,i    merim  I Ither forestry operations, however, are
need for rtu*lv.ooo. MLIl he iddrc-ed ThiL.Uch  ;Ibieci to government commitment to sustain-
poi,lics that reduce dcrand. increise suppl    ahie nd conservation-oriented forestry.
and cricotrac .lernali%v i   oUrc I I .  enetr
Dernird cjn he r,du,ed throuci direct inter-
%entiirI' 1 enLour.ge conriation and LI%E i    Dun. their discussion on the Bank's forestry-
more :1lk eni cenIete                         pl? paper, the executive directors reaffirmed
'.upplh c.n be in.:reased M\ taini nc the dc-  tei  erall support for the paper, which was
mand bi ruralo .cllers fOr ,ood thriugh cffii.erii  nri,he- by theviewsofborrowinggovernments,
ue oi the underutilized labr and lnd, T-    UIALmIcs, researchers, concerned individuals,
implie4 tht iood-pioduction i,4ues need to he  and representatives ofN60s. They endorsed the
deAlt %th it the trrner leil. Forcei departneni  principles set forth in the paper for future Bank
need lo be rronenicd in light of i  .          nolementin the forestry sector, inparticulara
.Ind the spec.l -ctii.tis of NGI  con,erned  multi,ectoral approach to relieving pressure on
tith poent rediCion and en'irinmenitl con-  I.--l  hey also endorsed the Bank's stance of
,er..i]ion .hould be mobili,ed to help usei I.,  ri, 11ncing commercial logging in primary trop-
nize themelT. hsr tt                                     priintnncp  cael mnith forests.


﻿58   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
large power plant burning high-sulfur brown  Conservation Project in Yemen, approved in
coal in a heavily polluted region of Bohemia.  fiscal 1992 in the amount of $32.8 million, is
The Bank continues to stress the need for  supporting improved water distribution for
environmental-strategy  papers and  action  controlled irrigation, pilot measures for small-
plans for each country-exercises considered  scale irrigation works, expansion of sand-dune
crucial for gaining a broad overview of the  stabilization and soil protection, conservation
main environmental issues so that priorities  of key forest areas, and the preservation of
can be set and hot spots of pollution, where  biodiversity and tree planting.
human health and the environment are at risk,  Progress was made during the year in all
can be identified. The generation of environ-  regions in developing national environmental-
mental-strategy papers for the countries of  action plans, which form the basis for the
Central and Eastern Europe is now complete.  Bank's dialogue with governments on critical
Preparation of environmental-strategy papers  environmental issues. Each plan describes a
is under way for Belarus and Ukraine-an      country's environmental problems, summa-
exercise that will be repeated for all the re-  rizes the development strategy followed, and
maining republics of the former Soviet Union.  analyzes how developmental objectives have
The Bank's operational environmental strat-  affected the quality of the environment and
egy in the Latin America and the Caribbean  resource utilization-information useful in de-
region emphasizes three major themes-        veloping the Bank's country-assistance strate-
strengthening of environmental institutions,  gies and in helping set lending priorities. The
helping borrowers set clear environmental pri-  plans are expected to become a continuing
orities, and encouragement of efficient ap-  governmental process for the planning and
proaches. Given the region's urbanizing trend,  implementation of environmental-management
the highest payoffs in much of Latin America  programs and projects, not a one-time exer-
and the Caribbean are likely to be associated  cise. For the Bank, the plans provide a strate-
with measures to improve urban water and    gic framework for investment planning and
sanitation and reduce ambient atmospheric   country assistance based on environmental pri-
concentrations of pollutants associated with  orities.
respiratory diseases.                         The Bank's role in preparing and implement-
Lending to strengthen basic environmental  ing an environmental-action plan is primarily
institutions was the main feature of the Mexico  that of providing guidance and technical assis-
Environment Project, which supports the     tance to the government. The degree to which
strengthening of that country's national envi-  the Bank helps depends on the capacity of the
ronmental agency and the development of de-  government to design and manage the process;
centralized agencies. Four other institution-  support may be substantial in some countries
building and reinforcing projects-in Bolivia,  and minimal in others.
Chile, Colombia, and Ecuador-were under       The Bank's environmental work is guided by
development during the year.                 specific policies embodied in three sets of
In December 1991, at a meeting in Geneva, a  documents: Operational Manual Statements,
number of donor countries pledged to support  Operational Policy Notes, and Operational Di-
a Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian   rectives. (The Statements and Notes series
Rainforest by contributing to a trust fund, to be  were discontinued in 1989 and are gradually
administered by the Bank, and to associated  being reissued as Operational Directives.)
bilateral cofinancing arrangements. Following  Central to integrating environmental con-
the Geneva meeting, Bank staff finalized a  cerns into the Bank's activities is the "Opera-
document laying out the institutional frame-  tional Directive on Environmental Assess-
work and financing conditions based on the  ment," which was approved in October 1989.
views of the donors and the government of   The directive mandates an environmental as-
Brazil. Program participants ratified the docu-  sessment for all projects that may have a
ment, and in March 1992, the executive direc-
tors of the Bank approved a resolution estab-
lishing a Rainforest Trust Fund to provide    During the negotiations on the IDA-9 replenishment,
financing for projects under the pilot phase. To  agreement was reached that all IDA-recipient countries
date,should complete NEAPs by the end of the IDA-9 period
date doorshaveplegedabot $5 milio to (June 1993). It was decided subsequently that NEAPs
the trust fund and more than $200 million in  should also be initiated for IBRD countries. If an IDA
associated bilateral aid.                     country cannot complete a report by the June 1993 target
In the Middle East and North Africa region,  date, the Bank should satisfy itself that (a) preparation of a
the primary environmental concern is water   suitable country environmental strategy is welt advanced
and (b) preliminary findings from the preparatory work
scarcity and the mounting pollution of avail-  have been incorporated into the Bank's country-assistance
able water resources. The Land and Water     strategies.


﻿The Environment  59
significant negative impact on the environ-  guidelines. The revised guidelines are sector
ment. During the past year, the directive was  oriented, address individual pollutants, and
revised to require that people affected by  emphasize pollution prevention and waste-
Bank-supported projects have access to the  minimization techniques, including cleaner
information contained in the assessment. The  processes and resource conservation. The four
revised directive also streamlines the process  "Rs"-reduction, reuse, recycle, and recov-
by which all projects in the pipeline are  ery-will receive considerable attention in the
screened for their potential environmental ef-  Bank's new lending programs. Hazardous-
fects and are rated according to their probabil-  waste management will focus on "cradle-to-
ity of adversely affecting the environment.  grave" monitoring and safer disposal tech-
Transparency and accountability issues in  niques.
environmental activities were raised during the  A new operational directive on indigenous
fiscal year with relation to a loan to the Elec-  peoples was also issued during the year. Draw-
tricity Generating Authority of Thailand to  ing on a decade's experience in designing
support a project designed to increase the  projects that mitigate the effects of develop-
generation of power in the country and to  ment projects on the natural and cultural re-
increase the capacity of governmental institu-  sources of indigenous people, the directive
tions to monitor environmental conditions in  provides a set of more specific guidelines for
the power and mining sectors.              future work in this area. It mandates that
The resettlement provisions of the project-  native people affected by Bank projects must
some 250 families would be affected-as well  be involved in the preparation and implemen-
as the project's impact on health and fisher-  tation of Bank projects. By identifying local
ies-sparked controversy within the local and  preferences through direct consultation, the
international environmental community. The  Bank will be better able to incorporate indige-
entire process of environmental assessment  nous knowledge into project approaches. The
and the environmental-impact mitigation plans  new operational directive also aims to ensure
were reviewed in great detail and over a long  that indigenous people do not suffer adverse
period before the project was approved by the  effects during, or as a result of, the develop-
executive directors in December 1991. Empha-  ment process, and that they receive culturally
sis is being placed now on the monitoring of the  acceptable social and economic benefits. Spe-
implementation of the project's environmental-  cial attention will also be paid to the role of
impact mitigation measures.                gender in resettlement and environmental-im-
In its experience with this project, the Bank  pact studies.
learned that, in the future, it should follow a  Fiscal 1992 marked the first full year of
more transparent and proactive process of  activity for the Global Environment Facility
handling environmental issues. The revised  (GEF). The GEF is a three-year pilot project
operational directive, which defines more  that provides grants for investment projects,
clearly what is meant by participation and  technical assistance, and-to a lesser extent-
consultation of affected people in the design of  research for the incremental costs of activities
projects and their environmental-assessment  with global environmental benefits in four pro-
and mitigation plans, should help lessen the  grammatic areas: climate change, ozone deple-
chances for future controversy. Review by the  tion, pollution of international waters, and
Bank's management and the executive board  biodiversity. All countries with per capita in-
of another project involving resettlement is-  comes below $4,000 a year qualify for GEF
sues-the Sardar Sarovar (Narmada) Projects  grants. The facility helps finance innovative
in India-is scheduled for early fiscal 1993.  projects and programs affecting the global
In 1984 and 1988, the Bank issued environ-  environment such as climate change and the
mental-pollution guidelines for the develop-  loss of biodiversity. As of June 30, 1992, more
ment of measures aimed at curbing industrial  than thirty countries were participants in the
pollution. These guidelines omitted a number  GEF, nearly half from the developing world.
of key sectors, however-such as thermal      Responsibility for implementing the GEF is
power stations and sewage-treatment plants-  shared among the United Nations Develop-
and did not address the management, treat-  ment Programme (technical assistance, capac-
ment, and disposal of hazardous wastes. More-  ity building, project preparation), the United
over, most remedial measures were based on  Nations Environment Programme (secretariat
"end of the pipe" treatment technologies and  for the Scientific and Technical Advisory
disposal concepts. Little attention was paid to  Panel, environmental expertise, advice on spe-
waste reduction.                           cific projects), and the World Bank (adminis-
In fiscal 1992, the Bank revised or updated  trator, repository of the $1 billion trust fund,
approximately eighty-five industrial-pollution  investment projects).


﻿60   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
As of June 30, 1992, the GEF was consider-  The agreement on the restructuring of the
ing more than seventy projects worth $580  GEE was important in forging a consensus in
million. Six investment projects had been ap-  the international negotiating committees on the
proved: conserving  the  environment in   designation of the facility as the financial
Bhutan, preserving biodiversity in Poland, dis-  mechanism for the climate-change and biodi-
placing fossil fuels with bagasse for energy  versity conventions. Both these conventions
production in Mauritius, conserving biodiver-  were subsequently signed by more than 150
sity in Mexico, handling and disposing of, in an  countries during UNCE) in June 1992. The
environmentally sound manner, ships' waste in  conference also endorsed the agreement on the
six Chinese ports, and afforestation in Ecua-  restructuring of the GEE and agreed that it was
dor. The projects in Bhutan and Poland were  the appropriate financial mechanism to cover
freestanding projects, financed entirely by the  the agreed incremental costs of measures de-
GEF; the other four were Bank Group projects  signed to achieve global environmental bene-
in which the GEF funded a component.      fits. Several countries supported a twofold-to-
The future of the GEF, beyond its initial  threefold increase in resources for the GEF
three-year pilot phase, has been the subject of  once the pilot phase ends in late 1993.
a continuing dialogue among governments par-
ticipating in the facility.
In late April 1992, governments participat-  Developing countries are increasingly rely-
ing in the GEF agreed to the restructuring of  ing on market signals and the actions of private
the facility. While it will continue to address  entrepreneurs to help promote more efficient
agreed global environmental issues within the  resource allocation and greater dynamism. The
four programmatic areas of its original man-  Bank Group-the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA-
date, the future facility will be able to fund  considers private-sector development (PSD) to
projects aimed at reversing land degradation,  be an important contributor to the institution's
primarily desertification and deforestation, as  overarching objective-raising living standards
they relate to the four focal areas. It was also  and reducing poverty.
agreed that the GEF would be available as the  Both Bank adjustment operations and a rap-
funding mechanism for the global-environ-  idly growing proportion of investment opera-
mental conventions signed at UNCED,       tions emphasize private-sector development as
should the parties to those conventions so  a means towards attainment of this main oh-
decide. In all its activities, the facility would  jective. Typically, two of every three Bank
finance programs and projects that are coun-  operations include components that explicitly
try driven and consistent with national prior-  support private-sector development, up from
ities designed to support sustainable develop-  about 40 percent four years ago. This trend
ment.                                     holds true for all regions. In addition, many
Building on the institutional framework pro-  Bank operations that do not explicitly involve
vided by the three implementing agencies, the  the private sector nonetheless finance public
governance of the GEF would also be restruc-  investment complementary to, and often criti-
tured. Universal membership is seen as key to  cal for, private-sector development-transport
the facility's success. The participating gov-  infrastructure and agricultural research, for
ernments would form a "Participants' Assem-  example.
bly" that would normally decide matters on  The overall scope and level of PSD activities
the basis of consensus. When this does not  in the Africa region expanded significantly
prove possible, a voting system would be de-  during fiscal 1992. Adjustment lending empha-
veloped that guarantees a balanced and equi-  sized regulatory and domestic-competition pol-
table representation of the interests of devel-  icy reforms, alongside a deepening of trade-
oping countries, while giving due weight to the  policy reforms (in C6te d'Ivoire, Zambia, and
financing efforts of donors.              Zimbabwe); Bank-supported public-enterprise
It was agreed that a single, unitary funding  reform and privatization programs have been
mechanism, to be replenished periodically, has  adopted or expanded (in Burundi, C6te
advantages in terms of efficiency in mobilizing  d'lvoire, Guinea, and Zambia, for example);
funds and providing an integrated approach to  support for private delivery of public services
programming.                              has grown to include vocational training (C6te
In addition to the three implementing agen-  d1voire) and agricultural-marketing services
cies, other specialized United Nations agen-  (Guinea and Zambia); while hybrid PSD oper-
cies, the regional development banks, nongov-  ations have combined policy reforms, strength-
ernmental organizations, community groups,  ening of market-based support services, and
and the private sector are expected to contrib-  financing to reestablish and deepen term credit
ute significantly to the success of the facility,  markets (in Burundi and Uganda, for instance).


﻿Private-sector Development  61
Private-sector development was an essential  intermediary restructuring and divestiture op-
part of the fiscal 1992 work programs in the  eration that seeks to privatize public banks and
East Asia and Pacific and South Asia regions,  dismantle directed credit.
as well. India's significant progress toward  The Bank's private-sector development ac-
liberalization and deregulation was facilitated  tion program, adopted in 1989 and strength-
by Bank studies on trade and financial reform,  ened in 1991, provided the starting point for
for example, and was supported by the Bank's  stimulating and disaggregating Bank Group ef-
first structural-adjustment loan to that country.  forts at private-sector development. It distin-
To identify paths for reform and eventual  guished among three key tasks to help promote
privatization of some activities in China, the  private-sector development: creation of an af-
Bank has assisted with sector analyses of hous-  firmative business environment, restructuring
ing, land, and industry. The Bank also fostered  of the public sector, and development of the
direct privatization in the development of sec-  financial sector and support for entrepreneurial
tors previously reserved for the government  activities. Key to the Bank Group's work in
through projects in Indonesia's telecommuni-  this area is strengthened cooperation among
cations sector and Pakistan's hydrocarbon  the responsible units in the Bank, the IFC, and
subsector. It also supported the preparation of  MIGA. Considerable progress has been made
broader privatization programs in Bangladesh,  in each area.
the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and    For the Bank Group, creating a supportive
Nepal.                                     business environment means not just more
PSD initiatives in the Middle East and North  private activity hut also expanded competition.
Africa region and in the Europe and Central  Thus, the Bank Group helps governments sup-
Asia region were guided by the EMENA (Eu-  port business and encourages them to phase
rope, Middle East, and North Africa) Program  out controls over prices and investment deci-
on Enhanced Private Sector Emphasis in Op-  sions, as well as to reduce subsidies, special
erations, developed at the beginning of the  tax incentives and import protection, preferred
fiscal year. Economic and sector work in-  access to government procurement and finance,
cluded PSD components focusing on the iden-  and similar privileges that prevent competition
tification and elimination of constraints to  from spurring efficiency and innovation.
PSD. Separate studies were done in some      A $17 million IDA credit to Burundi, for
countries on related topics such as the legal  example, is helping finance a project that
and regulatory environment, incentive struc-  focuses on removing institutional, legal, and
tures, and securities markets. PSD-focused  regulatory impediments to private-enterprise
loans-for the Enterprise Reform Project in  development. Mechanisms are being strength-
Hungary and the Private Enterprise Develop-  ened for the enforcement of contractual ar-
ment Project in Poland-were approved, and  rangements through improving the perfor-
several other operations are at various stages  mance of legal institutions and creating
of preparation.                            auxiliary paralegal professions in the private
In Latin America and the Caribbean, the  sector. Operations in fiscal 1992 that focused
Bank's PSD focus involves creating an en-  primarily on improving the business environ-
abling environment, restructuring public and  ment were also approved for C6te d'lvoire,
private-sector roles, and increasing financial-  Poland, and Uganda.
system efficiency. Thus, in Brazil, the Study  Public-sector  restructuring  components
on the Regulatory and Legal Environment for  have become increasingly important in Bank
Business, which examined impediments to ef-  adjustment operations, as countries move from
ficient enterprise, was completed. In support  basic ("stroke of the pen") policy reforms to
of public-sector restructuring, the Bank,  lengthier, institutional reforms. Public-sector
through two lending operations in Argentina,  restructuring involves both improving effi-
assisted the government's efforts to reduce the  ciency in critical functions of the state, such as
federal work force, increase tax-system effi-  the provision of social and physical infrastruc-
ciency, control federal expenditures, and  ture, and creating space for private initiative
strengthen financial-system  supervision. In  through a shift in the boundary between the
Chile, a health-sector reform operation, which  public and private sectors.
encourages greater private-sector provision of  In Argentina, a $325 million Bank loan,
health-care services, was approved. Private-  approved in fiscal 1992, supports fundamental
sector access to finance requires market-  reforms of the federal government. Among
oriented financial systems that mobilize and  other things, expenditures are being rational-
allocate resources efficiently. In Colombia, the  ized through a reduction of about 20 percent in
Bank supported efforts to make the financial  federal employment, the elimination of some
sector more market based through a financial-  functions and the refocusing on core activities


﻿62   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
through ministerial reorganization, a reversal  Bank established a Task Force on Financial
of wage compressions from 3:1 to over 10:1,  Sector Operations to assess its assistance ac-
and improvements in the budget and control  tivities in the sector. The task force's report
process. Other operations that had public-  was issued in 1989. Subsequently, all financial-
sector restructuring as a primary objective  sector operations in preparation were reviewed
were approved during the year for Madagas-  to ensure that the report's recommendations
car, Mauritania, and Pakistan. Structural-  were being followed and to identify issues and
adjustment operations in Bolivia, Bulgaria, Bu-  areas where  additional clarification  was
rundi, India, the Lao People's Democratic  needed pursuant to the preparation of detailed
Republic, Peru, and Romania-all approved in  guidelines to staff. This process culminated in
fiscal 1992-had public-sector restructuring  a policy paper approved by the executive di-
components.                                rectors in July 1991 (see Box 3-4).
Privatization is a process that helps shift the  Based on the recommendations of the task
boundary between the public and private sec-  force, various forms of financial-sector re-
tors so as to increase cost-effectiveness and  forms have been promoted-improvements in
better use of resources in both government and  financial institutions, interest-rate liberaliza-
business. Privatization can open new opportu-  tion, and support for resource mobilization for
nities for private investors and free govern-  private investment and/or competition in finan-
ment resources and administrative skills for  cial intermediation, for example.
high-priority activities. The Bank Group has  While continuing to play a major role in
actively supported privatization in more than  private-sector development, financial-interme-
180 Bank operations, 50 IFC advisory-support  diary loans were affected by the reorientation
and investment operations in privatized firms,  of the financial-sector activities of the Bank:
and 3 MIGA projects that insure investments  Lending through financial intermediaries to
associated with privatization.             large industrial enterprises declined, while
A $200 million loan to Hungary, approved in  market-oriented financing and technical assis-
fiscal 1992, is supporting the government's  tance for private small and medium-sized en-
privatization efforts. It is the government's  terprises increased.
goal to reduce the share of state-owned prop-  In Poland, the Bank committed $60 million
erty to less than 50 percent of the competitive  in fiscal 1992 for a project that is providing
sector by the end of 1994. To that end, its  financing for efficient investment in private
privatization strategy is being carried out  (particularly small and medium-sized) enter-
through the orderly sale of state-owned enter-  prises. Financial-intermediary loans were also
prises. Projects devoted primarily to privatiza-  approved for Bangladesh, Colombia, and Trin-
tion were also approved for Argentina, C6te  idad and Tobago.
d'Ivoire, Egypt, and Zambia.                 The lessons of experience in the reform of
An efficient and dynamic financial sector is  public-sector management and in privatization
crucial to a growing market-oriented economy.  were the subject of two separate executive
In the context of Bank operations, financial-  board discussions during the year.
sector restructuring and policy reform are of-  The report to the board on the lessons of
ten necessary to raise the efficiency and effec-  reform  of public-sector management con-
tiveness of resource mobilization from, and  eluded that, although the impact of public-
allocation to, the private sector. Bank adjust-  sector reform has been less than had been
ment operations have addressed these needs in  hoped for, Bank work in this area has yielded
a growing number of countries.             positive results, often in very difficult circum-
Thus, in C6te d'Ivoire, a $200 million oper-  stances. The report noted, however, that there
ation is supporting a multifaceted program of  was a great variation both with regard to where
financial reforms, of which a restructuring of  a country is located on the spectrum of admin-
the banking sector is the centerpiece. Commer-  istrative capacity and in the country's recep-
cial-bank operations will be restructured, com-  tivity to externally supplied advice and re-
mercial banks will be recapitalized, the Na-  sources. In countries where the alignment of
tional Agricultural Development Bank will be  skills, commitment, and incentives is condu-
liquidated (as will other specialized lenders),  cive, it is apparent that rapid change is occur-
and the country's Debt Amortization Agency  ring; in other situations, the development of
will be restructured. Financial-sector adjust-  the essential ingredients for strong institutions
ment operations in Ghana, Peru, and Tanzania  will take years to effect. In many countries, the
were also approved by the Bank during fiscal  Bank will have to be involved in this support-
1992.                                      ing process for a long time.
In growing recognition of the central impor-  The instruments used by the Bank to pro-
tance of financial-sector development, the  mote public-sector management reforms have


﻿Private-sector Development   63
Box 3-4. Policies Guiding Financial-sector Operations
The Bank's member countries are placing in-    where they exist, should precede or accompany
ereased importance on the development of sound  measures to liberalize the financial sector.
financial markets and institutions. In support of  In many countries, the restructuring or liquida-
this shift, the Bank is also giving greater attention  tion of distressed financial institutions is a neces-
to the reform and modernization of the financial  sary carly step toward successful sector reform.
sectors of its borrowinL members.              To have lastine benefits. however. it should be
Following a re' i, . of be Bank , appri)ch to  preceded ånd accompnied b  irr±cton il he
financial-secto, opelaius. i .i..  deeided thAt  rn icr.eeconomie 1mbailanie and the polee and
more rigorous itteniion needeJ tlo be pai  ro ia  in-utiønal nadequacieN th. Caubed er perit
the strengthening of linaneir, mrkel, and mar  led di,tre, ito beceme wide,pre.id.
ket-based finare-al n,LLiatlen ný. i ti ihe relorm ,i  Eie i1ia.  ie  i h ,diw  in co)inirie
financial-sectoi polleis. and i,i [be imporLance  .nd operalion, %.bere the supp,irt ol rhe Bank
ofthe macroeconormlc [nenui.legil. and rek Grour Can appropritelS be pro..ided ,ilh,iit
ulatory environmen: l-r linancialceL.r dC.el-  sifilnt go..ernment insolerrient or guarantee
opment.                                         ef rep.A, ment. the IFC tk ill normall,, be epec led
Before detailed euideine, on tin:nci,lee,.ri  e pI, ihe le d rle  financtal-iermediari
operations were iued re Bank iaff. tie under-  lending in countrie, or operaLion'  heit ihere
Iying policieso tinancial-eci,i support % ere [be  ire impiorant ,eci,r-reform *.r Pl, %-reform b
subjectofdiscuioin b [be execuås e boad. The ec[ie'. he Bank ilb normalhl rike rhe leid Å
paragraph, thir ttllou ,urmmarite ih'e plieei  central obibeuie for both irsuuoris i, fkr inter-
å generall' endor,ed hi Ihe beard              medi.r.e, and fin,l borriv. er, te be ,bie ekent.
.k."  . /,->  \il Hank oper,tion  all, to rai-e fund, tren mårket %ulCe,.
and polic' ad' c affecung the finåniål ,ector    Sound. ,ell-periirmng financi,il iniermediar.
mi,si he casi- L n. ih  cohetent. e \plie.i sra-  ie, .ire etenn.J to fin,n, l-sec ier efficienc . ,nd
eg,  l,r  he  i.rr,- in. L(i,mnir.  f linancialeciøi  re  be  i ice lul urir,duernr  ! p,lie, reorrn,.
de' elprieni Finan,.iaiieCtar  irte'. h.e       here an internedir doe- not urreni reet ,
&perntn 11 must be lirml, b.éed on pltc  dia.  .eptåble ýt.ndard, ,l perf'rnån.e ind -inan.
logee iih borrou ing tO:.nrnment, Eh cin,ul-                               in.l oundnes  as palicipatun inå  Bank-ti.
[artn And coirJinatein   th be Internatinal  n.n,eJ rinancial-lnernediari ,an uill retjuirk:
F inånce Ciirpcrain ilF  i and [he Iimet nånrnal  an ågreed insutienalde. elonent plan thai
l,netar%  Furid  ir, the  f,rmulatirn  tf  linintiål.  deriin,tr,Le, te insntui, k  abih' to  ,ur% ,.e in
,ectou 't saiegle, ire e.enrual               an in..reårigl% compeiti,e. market-ha,ed e,,
tåreaier cli,i rener i rL,cLirce m.b:uii ånd  rem  N here an -nter'ediar, , eAknee-s ,re
,ll,ca in  i, generallx eilectd  b. rLdu ing niar.  åtributatle  Le  e ,iernal  pob niee .td  i'ndiiion,.
kei diriitens, .panding the ,cope t.r ni.ke-  Brk ,iippeirt c .Il he e:%ndlti,nnJ en  rpr,prråte
ba'ed deci.inmikin2. and promiiiin  ciimpc-     nieare, to c   ,rreci [h,:ir
Li e. narkel -ernenied  in,auin'    \ herý      MIinager, el lin.iri,il niermediate, ,uild be
ierest-rak dist.riirn,rc ,gnticani. Bank li-  indeperidni [rom i.-ernn.ent iierterence in
nancial-sect,'r tiperart'n rnpit be condironid h,  breit lending deti'nt minagerial autnomi el
an agreed pr.igr.im 1ir m nnin tere. trate,   ,Le-o.. red iniermediaries i, el parti, ulr impir-
LarJ mdnrkel lekel and stiutire  nd b; ilre  tånse
nir%dIu Lin .f a å rutaei'r. met hanm for the  \k ,rld Bank lendng   hrough inietmedlrie,
ådiuimrent i omlerei r.e, i' meci  hnngm r     .ill be -. 'ndioned ,.n ehe ci in,e et   tita -
es Cninli  cendtion,.                          t,, % e Icel  nd  ti iiu,iåre   mi iere,t rate-. er en in
.\c'tdin Li. BAnk pili... bie .mpirtance and  unders ,n.  i h ihe  Lhi.rie, reg.idink
iuii in e, f e       .tng J.rcI ed re-liprogr.m,  piol e 0 11.,rd h.r end
ill be  .n.l.?ed ie.  part  .[  ihe  formulr. n  a il
e,,,lua,irn et 1Iniln,al-sc,,,,i ,rateic, he s-
ieti'e  f diree d  :redit pr,'grani  sheuld  be  lm  li iheir .i u' n  ihe B.ink  c\ ut e dire
umiulate normal credit .t ttlareted Lriup,  iusi t:riirn.ed their suppir  r ihe eera
pre  ii.iusl.  e cluded  ira,rn  red  rritarket.  ulti - n i n, ef  be  1M) tak-torie  reprti .n  I-.
niatel. permittling [be p   %a  ut t iihe  pro-  nancial-siter  iperuen-c'nilui o,  th.t
-ram,. in general. dire,ted  rent proerani, nti  ,1rengihried ihe Bink' focut on ihe d.eltip-
undertaken in bhe cntes! t i prglåm til pro-  ment i i%und rnarket-hmed finanei. setor'
mnoie rmarket aee should be. elimnateid \t i h  free e.'di.onire and inetficenerie-
minimum.  [he  henelii,rie,  l  d e  d  eredi  \\ hile  ihere  c.ere  ittereriec, el  c  in l  rnI
'b uld p., po,tiie i ere t  re .             31 eniphai,-ori [he suble i et direedsredt.on
.Atient.n it bhe adequae\ el .cCounLine nd  the need to take iiull, mi, ctuni a plat iuular
du ,lelo-ure sndaird and ti ,ih leal iamnerk i,  borro.isei. 'L.:t. if deicl blpn .,nd  ir. um-
an indi pen,.able eiemrnent i in.ial .er de.el-  -an,e rm the loin.Ition 'f Bank  rance
oprneni 'iritegie, ..nd Banl, upp,rt r- secoi  ,tråreg; and ipeiaiirn. ei ecample-i ere -ic
ref-rm if   e liminanon et hairner, Fl cenipetit n  till ,rpii fi r i he  Bank', ni.  tcu,


﻿64   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
been technical assistance, training, studies,  will be completed by the end of fiscal 1993.'
and policy dialogue. The report concludes that  The countries were selected jointly by Bank
the Bank's effectiveness in this area can be  and IFC staff on the basis of the urgency of
improved by, among other things, giving      addressing private-sector development issues
greater weight to public-sector management   and the potential of their private sectors, tak-
issues in the country dialogue, reviewing more  ing into account, as well, the role of the Bank
thoroughly a country's sociopolitical context,  and the IFC in the country and the govern-
and giving more systematic attention to public-  ment's commitment to pursue private-sector
sector management-related investment and    development-oriented reforms.
technical-assistance operations.              The assessment for Kenya, now being com-
According to the Bank study on privatiza-  pleted, is typical of the genre. It analyzes the
tion, two main lessons of experience can be  main characteristics of the private sector and
drawn.                                       its importance in the economy, the main con-
* Private ownership itself makes a differ-  straints it faces, and future World Bank Group
ence. Some state-owned enterprises have been  strategy for assisting the development of the
efficient and well managed for some periods,  sector.
but government ownership seldom permits       The assessment was based on Bank-IFC
sustained good performance over more than a  field missions, which included extensive enter-
few years.                                   prise surveys, as well as prior Bank Group
* The process of privatization, though not  knowledge of the private sector gained from
simple, can and has worked; this is true for a  previous operational and sector work. The
variety of enterprises in a variety of settings,  most important constraints identified in the
including poor countries.                    assessment were the pervasive system of reg-
Most privatization success stories come    ulations and controls, uncertainties resulting
from high-income or middle-income countries,  from the country's overall macroeconomic sit-
however. It is harder to privatize in least-  uation and the uneven application of laws and
developed settings, and the process there is  regulations, and the size of the public sector
more difficult to launch. But even in low-   and its potential crowding-out of private activ-
income countries, the results of some privati-  ities. Enterprises in the survey ranked the cost
zations have been highly positive. It is the task  of credit and collateral requirements as their
of government and the agencies assisting them,  biggest obstacles in the area of financing.
including the World Bank Group, to structure  The Bank's research program on private-
the enabling environment and the transactions  sector development issues ranges from studies
in such a way that the potential of privatization  on the informal sector, sectoral regulatory en-
is fulfilled (see Box 3-5).                  vironments, and land tenure, to competition,
The management of the Bank Group is com-   the effect of divestiture on efficiency, and the
mitted to reinforce the implementation of its  determinants of private investment. Resources
private-sector development action plan. A    devoted to private-sector development in-
number of measures were adopted late in fiscal  creased substantially in fiscal 1992, with rede-
1991 to strengthen the Bank Group's efforts in  ployment from debt and adjustment activities.
developing the private sector.2 They included  A major research study begun during the past
the undertaking of country-specific private-  year, "East Asian Miracle," is examining how
sector assessments, enhanced cooperation    government action (or inaction) has affected
among the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA, and an   growth in Japan and in the developing coun-
expansion of research on private-sector devel-  tries of East Asia, and a progress report on
opment issues.                               private-sector development is scheduled to be
Work began during fiscal 1992 on private-  reviewed by the Development Committee in
sector assessments. These assessments are de-  April 1993.
signed to contribute to the formulation of Bank
Group country-assistance strategies address-  Debt and Adjustment
ing  private-sector  development priorities   In fiscal 1989, the executive directors ap-
(alongside similar work on other priority areas  proved the use of World Bank resources to
such as environment and poverty reduction)   support debt-reduction and debt-service reduc-
and will provide a basis for the Bank's country-
policy dialogue. Private-sector assessments
will identify priority policy reforms and actions   For details, see page 67-70 of the World Bank's Annual
critical for private-sector development.      Report for fiscal year 1991.
The Bank Group, in consultation with the    The countries are Brazil, Cameroon, Colombia, C6te d
Ivoire, Ghana, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
respective governments, has identified the    Kenya, Madagascar, Mexico. Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan,
countries where the first twenty assessments  the Philippines, Poland. Senegal. Sri Lanka, and Zimbabwe.


﻿Debt and Adjustment   65
Box 3-5. Checklist of Recommendations for Privatizing Governments
/ The more market-friendly a country's policy  V Rather than restrict the market by excluding
framework-and appropriate policy is correlated  foreign investors and favoring certain ethnic
with capacity to regulate-the less difficulty it  groups, experiment with golden shares and par-
will have in privatizing a state-owned enterprise  tiat-share offerings to win acceptance for foreign
and the higher the likelihood that the sale will  and other buyers.
turn out positively.                           I Avoid large investments in privatization can-
/ State-owned enterprises functioning in com-  didates: The risks usually outweigh the rewards.
petitive markets, or in markets easily made com-  Instead, prepare for sale with legal, managerial,
petitive, are prime candidates for privatization.  and organizational changes, financial workouts,
Their sale is simple, compared to public monop-  and labor shedding,
olies, and they require little or no regulation.  I/ Experience shows that labor does not, and
V An appropriate regulatory framework must  need not, lose in privatization if governments pay
be in place before pn %aizirg monopohe' Failure  attention t ea,ine the    dl co,f of anemplo%-
to regulate properli  an hurt consumers ind  men[ through adequate secrance pa . uner-
reduce public supp,.rt for pmatization       pi., meni bene6i,. rraining. ond loh.earch as-
The prmar' obje,tie of priatizatn.n   iancc
should be to tmre.ae efficienc%-not to m\il-           let the market the price and ell
rize retenue f Ior eiample. b selling into pro-  r cash. Reali,wilk. negoiated Nei.lemenri
tected mirkeii mr e%c-n to dioribute 0. rer hip  :,nd fiiancing arrangements it debteqU11' s'.ap'
.     adels .t the e\pense of manageral efficien,:.  t,, te unjo.oiiNe
CounirieN .an henefit from  pri.tiring ran.  In  Ll  pri'.jtiztiofl .  in  ill countries,  the
igement through nianagenient coniruci%l'    tran,aclion trha re trnparetb.
contracfting ouo. or concer                          v       nnone.
tion operations in heavily indebted, middle-    macroeconomic program, usually supported
income countries. The program was instituted    by an International Monetary Fund (IMF) ar-
as a three-year program, with regular reviews  rangement, be in place; that the operation be
and evaluations.d Following discussion of a     agreed to voluntarily; and that it contribute
third annual review of the program, the exec-   materially to a country's development pros-
utive directors agreed in fiscal 1992 that the  pects.
Bank should maintain its ability to finance       The World Bank does not play a direct role
debt-reduction and debt-service reduction op-   in the negotiations between a debtor country
erations when such operations are found to be   and its commercial-bank creditors. It provides
justified in the special circumstances of mem-  information to each party about its program
ber countries. The directors also generally     and modalities, as requested, and about the
endorsed and approved proposals that the ini-  financial parameters that would justify the
tial ceiling, set for the three years fiscal    Bank's support. The Bank also offers technical
1990-92, of $6 billion for "additional lending"  assistance on external-debt management to
related to the program, be maintained and that,  member countries that request it.
on a case-by-case basis, taking into consider-    Since the start of the program, the Bank has
ation the criteria of justifiable need and cost  supported six such operations. In four cases
effectiveness, the additional funds could be    (Mexico, the Philippines, Uruguay, and Vene-
used to purchase principal collateral for par  zuela), the Bank provided financial support for
bonds carrying below-market interest rates.     the operation and, where needed, granted a
The program has enabled the Bank, when it    waiver of its negative-pledge clause to permit
judges circumstances appropriate, to extend     the creation of collateral with respect to ex-
financing and/or negative-pledge waivers for    change bonds. In two cases (Costa Rica and
operations that lead to a reduction in member  Nigeria), the Bank did not participate in the
countries' debt or debt-service obligations to  financing of the operation, but provided waiv-
their commercial-bank creditors.                ers of its negative-pledge clause. The waiver of
The Bank's support is made available on a    its negative-pledge clause to Nigeria was the
case-by-case basis under a set of conditions
specified by the executive directors in fiscal
1989. The most important conditions are that     For details of these reviews, see pages 50-52 in the World
the country have a    sound financing plan, which  Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1990 and pages 64-65 in
includes  debt reduction; that a sustainable    the World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal 1991.


﻿66    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
only debt-service reduction activity conducted      debt-service reduction operations have had a
by the Bank in fiscal 1992.'                        measurable developmental impact, and, on this
Progress under the program has been slower        account, the program has been successful.
than originally anticipated. The reasons are          The effect is most visibly seen in the case of
varied. Some debtors have experienced diffi-        Mexico. The ratio of total gross fixed capital
culties in implementing appropriate adjustment      formation to gross domestic product (GDP)
programs. In other countries, perceived polit-      rose by 1.4 percentage points in Mexico in 1991
ical uncertainties have contributed to the pro-     (relative to  1990); private fixed investment
longation of negotiations.                          increased by almost five percentage points in
For their part, commercial banks no longer        both 1990 and 1991; nominal interest rates fel]
feel as threatened as in the recent past by the     by twenty percentage points in Mexico during
level of their claims on developing countries.      the negotiation period, and real interest rates
In general, commercial banks have signifi-          fell by almost 60 percent in a six-month period
cantly improved their financial positions over      as negotiations evolved; stockmarket prices
the past few years. More recent difficulties,       rose in the negotiation period; credit ratings by
such as the need by most banks to meet              private-market participants rose significantly;
strengthened capital requirements, the reces-       and the net transfer of external capital inflows,
sion in the United States, as well as develop-      mostly in the form     of direct and portfolio
ments in the real-estate market in the United       investment, totaled more than 5 percent of
States, issues related to Eastern Europe (for       GDP in 1991-an increase of more than $13
European banks), and the fall in the stock          billion compared with 1990.
market and real-estate market declines in Ja-         The data for Venezuela show an improve-
pan, are now the focus of most attention by the     ment in development prospects: In 1991, GDP
commercial banks. The presence of these is-         grew by 9.1 percent, a figure that is among the
sues on the banks' agendas, in combination          highest in the developing world. Data for Costa
with increasingly strong provisions against de-     Rica and, to some extent, Uruguay, suggest
veloping-country risks, has diverted attention      measurable improvements, particularly on the
from   the task of reaching agreement with          external front, which were dampened by the
debtor countries.                                   occurrence of adverse terms-of-trade shocks.
As a result of these factors, the amount of       The Philippines operation, in relative terms,
resources allocated by the Bank to debt and         was the smallest of the first five Bank opera-
debt-service reduction operations has been          tions, and the effect was less significant than
less than what was estimated in fiscal 1989.        was expected.
Three years ago it was thought that additional
lending by the Bank under the three-year pro-
gram might amount to as much as $6 billion. In       On August 30, 1991, the government of the Philippines
fact, only $1.44 billion in additional lending has   announced its intention to conclude a debt and debt-
been committed, and available Bank support in service operation with its commercial-bank creditors.
n   Broad agreement was reached on the terms on which debt
the form   of "set asides" has totaled $1.23         would be restructured, and an official term sheet was
billion, compared with a potential maximum of        issued on February 29, 1992. Signing of the agreement was
$4 billion anticipated in fiscal 1989.'              planned for April. but in view of the impending election,
Despite the slower-than-anticipated pace of        the government and the banks concurred in postponing
stgning until after the election and the new government
the program, it appears that the program has         could confirm its support for the agreement. The gover-
contributed significantly to the debt-work-out       ment has requested assistance from the Bank and other
process and, in several cases, has been a            donors. The Bank is studying the request, including the
necessary element in the adjustment process of       possible modalities of support, and is discussing the over-
all resource requirements with the IMF and with major
the affected countries.                              bilateral donors. in April 1992, the government of Argen-
The channels through which debt and debt-          tina reached an agreement in principle with its commercial
service reduction operations affect the devel-       creditors on a debt and debt-service reduction package.
opment process vary in importance, depending         Negotiations are under way on the details of the agree-
ment.
on the unique situation of each debtor country.      In fiscal 1989, it was agreed that although the level of Bank
Countries benefit most when debt and debt-           support would be determined on a case-by-case basis, it
service reduction has a significant develop-         would involve a figure of around 25 percent of a country's
mental impact. In turn, a significant develop-       adjustment-lending program over a three-year period, or
around 10 percent of its overall lending program. The
mental impact     requires   a   strong  policy      executive directors also agreed that, where justified, addi-
framework in order for the beneficiary country       tional resources-up to 15 percent-of the overall three-
to exploit the development opportunities avail-      year lending program could also be made available and that
able under the new debt arrangements. While it       that limit could be exceeded if the excess amounts were
is  til ooeary           rora's         deducted , or "set aside," from the lending program so that
is still too early to observe the program's          the excess would not result in a further increase in the net
effects fully, evidence suggests that debt and       commitment of the Bank.


﻿Debt and Adjustment  67
There seems to be a clear parallel between  $230.8 million of principal commercial indebt-
the success of the operations (in terms of their  edness has been retired, along with interest
developmental impact) and good policies. In  arrears totaling some $90 million.
the case of Mexico and, to a somewhat lesser  Approximately $13.8 million of facility re-
degree, Venezuela, improved and strong ad-  sources has been used to date, in addition to
justment policies, sustained over several    significant support from bilateral donors. Swit-
years, have generated the largest development  zerland and France granted $7.5 million and
benefits from debt reduction. The gains have  $12 million, respectively, for the operations in
been smaller in the other countries, where the  Mozambique and Niger, while the Netherlands
policy frameworks have not been as support-  and Sweden provided grant funds of $2 million
ive. This reinforces the presumption that a  and $4.5 million, respectively, for the Mozam-
strong policy framework is required to achieve  bique operation. All funds, except for the
a significant developmental impact from debt  French grant to Niger, were provided by way
and debt-service reduction.                 of contributions to the facility. Late in calendar
The directors of the Bank also agreed during  year 1991, Switzerland agreed to make avail-
the year to extend the operations of the Debt  able a further contribution of SwF20 million to
Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries.  the general resources of the facility for use in
That facility was established in fiscal 1990 in  such future operations as are mutually agreed
recognition of the absence of adequate mech-  upon by Switzerland and IDA. In addition.
anisms for easing the burden of external com-  Canada, France, Japan, Switzerland, and the
mercial debt owed by IDA-only countries. The  United Kingdom have provided financial sup-
facility was financed by the transfer to it of  port for preparatory activities directly con-
$100 million of the IBRD's net income for   nected to facility-supported operations.
fiscal 1989.                                  Although interest on the part of indebted
Facility resources are made available on a  countries in participating in facility operations
grant basis-normally up to a limit of $10   has been strong, progress in carrying out those
million to any one country-to allow for the  operations has been slower than expected.
maximum possible impact in reducing a coun-  Several factors have contributed to this situa-
try's external commercial debt.             tion: difficulties in carrying out adjustment
All IDA-only countries with heavy debt bur-  programs, debtor-country constraints, com-
dens are eligible for facility support. Support,  mercial-creditor reluctance, legal complexi-
however, is decided on a case-by-case basis  ties, and funding considerations.
and is contingent on the existence of:        Debtor-country constraints refer to the diffi-
* a medium-term adjustment program that is  culties that some potential facility beneficiaries
acceptable to IDA, as demonstrated, for exam-  have in acquiring complete and accurate infor-
ple, by the existence of an operational policy-  mation on how much they owe and to whom.
framework   paper   (PFP),  a   structural-  Facility operations have also been delayed by
adjustment program, or a country's inclusion  human-resource constraints in debtor coun-
in the IMF's enhanced structural-adjustment  tries that result in the understandable relega-
facility (ESAF); and                        tion of relatively small commercial-creditor
* a strategy for debt management that is  claims, as opposed to far larger official-
satisfactory to IDA and that (a) includes a  creditor claims, to the backburner.
program for resolving the commercial-debt     The extent of commercial-creditor reluc-
problem through funds provided by the facility  tance has been unexpected. And the scenario
and other sources; (b) provides for substantial  that had banks responding favorably to cash
debt relief from  official bilateral creditors  offers to extinguish claims on very poor coun-
through an agreement with the Paris Club,   tries with histories of severe debt-servicing
preferably on terms that offer the most favor-  problems has proved to be, for a variety of
able treatment accorded by that body; and (c)  reasons, somewhat optimistic.
materially enhances the country's prospects   Finding methods of pursuing debt-reduction
for growth and development.                  operations that are consistent with the under-
To date, seventeen countries have expressed  lying contracts the debtor has with its commer-
an interest in gaining access to the facility's
resources.7 Two debt-reduction operations
have been completed (in Mozambique and
Niger);' and it is expected that three operations  Benin, Bolivia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guy-
(for Bolivia, Guyana, and Uganda) will be    ana, Madagascar, Mali. Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger,
brought to the executive board for its consid-  5o Tomd and Principe, Senegal, Tanzania, Togo,
Uganda, and Zaire.
eration during the first half of fiscal year 1993.  For details, see page 67 in the World Bank's Annual
In the cases of Mozambique and Niger, about  Report for fiscal year 1991.


﻿68   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1992
cial creditors has proved to be complex. In  1992, an increase of $176 million over the
addition, significant delays in structuring indi-  previous year's total. Lending for adjustment
vidual deals have often been caused by the   represented 27 percent of total Bank lending.
difficulty in obtaining relevant documentation  The increase resulted primarily from  initial
(the underlying contracts, for instance) that is  adjustment operations in India and Peru ($650
required to ensure that the proposed debt-   million and $1 billion, respectively) and contin-
reduction operations will actually achieve their  ued high levels of adjustment lending in Cen-
objectives-the legal extinguishing of claims.  tral and Eastern Europe ($850 million).
Finally, delays in obtaining bilateral funding  Adjustment lending has been a part of the
to permit the timely hiring of external financial  landscape of the developing world for over a
and legal advisors have led, in some cases, to  decade. It has been central to policy debate in
delays in the detailed preparation of facility  Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa and
operations.                                  important in other regions. A few countries-
Despite its slow progress, the facility has  Chile and Thailand, for instance-have clearly
shown that it can contribute substantially to  graduated from adjustment lending; barring
the reduction of commercial debt in the very  major new shocks, they will no longer need
poorest countries. The facility remains the  adjustment loans to support policy reform.
only financing mechanism that offers heavily  Others-Morocco   and Tunisia, for exam-
indebted, low-income countries the prospect of  pie-are on the road to graduation. Adjustment
obtaining the financing required for substantial  lending is going to remain important in the
debt reduction of commercial-debt obligations.  1990s: It already has become a major vehicle of
The creation of the facility has also had  assistance to formerly command-driven coun-
positive secondary effects. Its existence has  tries, it is being used for the first time in India,
encouraged several countries to address more  and there are old and new clients in most other
systematically and comprehensively the man-  parts of the world.
agement of their external liabilities-both cur-  A third review of adjustment lending, com-
rent and future. Its existence has also encour-  pleted by the Bank in fiscal 1992, concludes
aged greater efforts at coordination in donor  that, overall, adjustment lending is associated
assistance in the field of debt management.  with a recovery in growth rates and improved
In agreeing to extend the life of the facility  policies. Middle-income adjusting countries
until July 31, 1994, the executive directors also  did better than low-income adjusting countries,
decided that the standard by which an opera-  however: If initial conditions, external shocks,
tion is judged-that it resolve a country's com-  and official flows are controlled for, the former
mercial-debt problem in a comprehensive man-  group of countries enjoyed growth four per-
ner-should be interpreted in a way that      centage points higher than would otherwise
permits facility resources to fund partial debt-  have occurred; the low-income group barely
reduction operations in appropriate cases.   grew in per capita terms.
The executive directors also agreed that:    The review noted that the adjustment pro-
* facility resources could be employed to cess generally takes years, and that there can
hire financial and legal advisors to help coun-  be significant costs in the transition. Again, a
tries prepare debt-reduction operations;9    distinction was found between middle-income
* facility resources could be provided to a  adjusting countries and low-income ones. The
third-party entity for a debt-reduction opera-  more difficult path toward recovery followed
tion for the benefit of a member country in  by the poorer group can be explained by the
those cases where it was not feasible to make a  fact that most low-income countries have a
grant to the member country because of legal  relatively weak base in infrastructure and hu-
constraints; and that                        man capital, small private involvement in the
* facility resources could also be employed formal sector, and weak public institutions.
in the reduction of all external commercial debt  They also started off with more distorted econ-
that is not otherwise guaranteed or collateral-  omies than did the middle-income countries.
ized-that is, short-term as well as medium-    The evidence to date, the review suggests, is
term  and long-term  debt. Short-term  debt  that structural adjustment in low-income coun-
would only be eligible, however, if such debt  tries is a necessary-but not usually sufficient-
had been in arrears for some time and if IDA's
management were satisfied, on a country-by-
country basis, that such inclusion was unlikely  Late in fiscal 1991, a grant of up to $340,000 from the
to impair a country's access to short-term    facility was provided to Guyana to finance the costs of
credit on reasonable terms.                   financial and legal advisors to assist in the preparation of a
proposed commercial bank debt-reduction operation. The
Adjustment lending. Adjustment lending by   funds for the grant were contributed to the facility for this
the Bank totaled $5,847 million during fiscal  purpose by Canada.


﻿Debt and Adjustment  69
condition for transition to sustainable growth.  tional difficulty that the formal private sector
It concludes that while most of this group will  has always been less developed. In addition,
continue to need adjustment-related support  most of the conditions for private-investment
during the 1990s, this support will pay off only  recovery are also worse than in middle-income
if long-run development problems are tackled  countries: Market distortions are often worse,
simultaneously. These problems will continue  infrastructure is less developed, and the finan-
to require substantial support, through project  cial system is weaker.
and sectoral investment lending, from the in-  Misallocation of public-sector resources, at
ternational community.                     least from a developmental perspective, re-
Although the review found that adjustment  mains a problem, according to the review. It
policies help most poor people-at least in the  found that general spending cuts have often
medium term- it acknowledged that economic-  been at the expense of critically important
reform programs often cause temporary wel-  operations and maintenance spending (and
fare declines for some. A well-designed adjust-  sometimes at the expense of necessary public
ment policy, however, can moderate losses  investment); that spending is misallocated
and bring swifter gains to the poor. Well-  within the social sectors (not enough spending
targeted public-transfer programs, such as  on complementary inputs, such as medicine
public-employment schemes, or food and nu-  and textbooks, relative to staff, for instance);
trition programs, have a role in cushioning  and that there has been relatively little prog-
declines in income for vulnerable groups.  ress in reducing public-sector employment.
In addition to updating the analysis on the  Looking to the future, the review recoi-
effects of adjustment lending on growth in  mended that the Bank (a) stay the course on
aggregate income and on the poor, the review  adjustment lending to committed governments
devoted special attention to two problematic  and complement such assistance with invest-
areas in the adjustment process-the recovery  ment lending to develop economic and social
of private-sector investment and reform of  infrastructure and institutions; (b) increase the
public spending.                           attention it gives in the design of adjustment
The review found that although private-  programs to policy reforms that support the
sector investment eventually recovers where  business environment; (c) increase the atten-
policy conditions are good, it remains a prob-  tion it gives to the allocation of public-sector
lem in low-income countries. The lagging re-  spending; and (d) reinforce efforts to design
sponse by private investors is normal, the  adjustment programs that promote poverty-
Bank study concludes, and it need not be a  reducing growth.
problem-provided that policies are put in    The third review of adjustment lending was
place to secure an eventual recovery. Most  discussed by the Bank's executive directors,
low-income countries usually have the addi-  who endorsed its overall findings.


﻿70
Section Four
World Bank Finances
IBRD Finances                              tion of the IBRD's commitment fee on undis-
bursed balances from seventy-five to twenty-
In fiscal year 1992, the IBRD achieved a  five basis points.
strong level of financial performance, high-  Based on the first year of operation, this new
lights of which include:                   policy has proved highly successful. Excluding
* loan disbursements of $11.7 billion;   the countries in nonaccrual status, late pay-
* borrowing the equivalent of $11.8 billion in  ments over thirty days declined sharply in the
the world's capital markets;               first twelve months following implementation
* average borrowing costs, after swaps, of  of the policy. Because of the improvement in
6.69 percent;                              the timeliness of payments, over 70 percent of
* financial return on the investment portfolio  all the IBRD's borrowers are currently eligible
of 8.07 percent; and                       for the interest-spread waiver.
* net income of $1.6 billion, which enabled
the IBRD to continue to meet its financial  Loans
objectives.                                  Disbursements. Gross disbursements by the
Allocations of fiscal 1991 net income in-  IBRD to countries were $11.7 billion, up from
cluded:                                    fiscal 1991's total of $11.4 billion. Net dis-
* an allocation to the general reserve of $450  bursements were $1.8 billion, compared with
million, which brought the IBRD's reserves-to-  $2.1 billion during the previous year.
loan ratio to 11.5 percent (excluding prefund-  Lending rate. Under the IBRD's current
ing of interest waivers) at the end of fiscal  semiannual variable lending-rate system, the
1992; and                                  interest rate was 7.73 percent for the first and
* an allocation of $370 million to the IBRD's  second semesters of fiscal 1992. By compari-
surplus.                                   son, the other variable-lending rate-applica-
ble to loans for which invitations to negotiate
Financial Policies                         were sent before May 18, 1989, and not con-
At the beginning of fiscal 1992, the IBRD's  verted by borrowers to the new system-was
new approach to encourage borrowers to make  7.71 percent and 7.72 percent, respectively, for
timely loan payments became effective. The  the first and second semesters of fiscal 1992.
approach stipulates that if a payment becomes  The difference between the rates is due to
thirty days overdue, no new loans to the bor-  differences in allocations of borrowings to
rower will be presented to the executive board  lending and/or to investments and to the
for approval or will be signed, and the bor-  weights applied to currency-specific costs.
rower will become ineligible for any applicable  Loans in nonaccrual status. Six countries
waivers of the interest spread. If a loan pay-  were in nonaccrual status at the end of fiscal
ment from a nonsovereign borrower becomes  1992-Congo, Guatemala, Iraq, Liberia, Peru,
forty-five days overdue (and the country is not  and Syria. With the exception of Congo, five
itself the delinquent borrower), no new loans  were holdovers from fiscal year 1991. Guate-
to, or to be guaranteed by, that country will be  mala, Peru, and Syria, however, are making
presented to the board for approval, and no  debt-service payments to the Bank.
previously approved loans to, or guaranteed  Nicaragua, Panama, and Sierra Leone came
by, that country will be signed.           out of nonaccrual status during the year. Nic-
During the fiscal year, the IBRD waived  aragua cleared its arrears on September 13,
twenty-five basis points of the fifty basis-point  1991 with a payment of $218.9 million. Panama
spread included in the semester interest rate on  cleared its arrears to the IBRD on February 5,
loans, provided that the borrowers had made  1992 with a payment of $220 million. Sierra
all loan-service payments within thirty days of  Leone, which had been in nonaccrual status
their due date. This waiver was in addition to  since August 1987, cleared its arrears on
the continuation during the year of the reduc-  April 15, 1992 with a payment of $9.65 million.


﻿Borrowings and Lbity Management  71
While Zambia reentered nonaccrual status on  cess or fiscal treatment of its securities or that
January 15, 1992, it cleared its arrears later in  offer other prospects for cost savings. The
the same month with a payment of $50.51    IBRD seeks to borrow the volume of funding,
million.                                   consistent with its target fiscal year-end liquid-
Provisioning. The IBRD increased its accu-  ity ratio, in an after-swap currency composi-
mulated provision for loan losses to $2.5 bil-  tion that allows it to maintain the targeted loan
lion, maintaining the provision equal to 2.5  currency-pool ratios for dollars, yen, and the
percent of the sum of total loans outstanding  deutsche mark group. The IBRD continues to
and the present value of guarantees. The level  be an active participant in both the currency
of loan-loss provision is based on an assess-  and interest-rate swap markets to obtain fund-
ment of the collectibility of loans in nonaccrual  ing at lower costs than it could otherwise
status, together with an evaluation of general  obtain through direct market borrowings in
risk in the remainder of the portfolio.    core currencies, to undertake intrayear inter-
Liquid-assetsest-rate management in core currencies, and to
Liqud-asets  anagmentmaintain a diversified capital-market presence.
At the end of fiscal 1992, the IBRD's liquid-  Medium-term and long-term (MLT)funding.
ity totaled $20.86 billion, equivalent to about  During fiscal 1992, the IBRD raised $11.8
48 percent of anticipated net cash requirements  billion through MLT borrowings in eleven cur-
over the next three fiscal years. At the end of  rencies and currency units. After $3.2 billion of
fiscal 1991, liquidity amounted to $20.0 billion.  currency swaps and a notional par volume of
The IBRD's primary objective in holding such  $3.7 billion of interest-rate swaps, all of the
liquidity is to ensure flexibility in its borrowing  year's borrowings were fixed-rate liabilities
decisions should borrowing be adversely af-  denominated in United States dollars, Japa-
fected by temporary conditions in the capital  nese yen, deutsche mark, and Swiss francs.
markets.                                   The average maturity of this funding was 7.3
The IBRD's liquid assets are invested exclu-  years, and the after-swap cost was 6.69 percent
sively in fixed-income instruments and are  (see Tables 4-1 and 4-2).
actively traded in various capital and money  Noteworthy transactions during the year in-
markets under stringent risk-management guide-  cluded two global-bond offerings in United
lines. The attendant portfolio-management activ-  States dollars (aggregating $3.0 billion) and the
ities are supported by a comprehensive risk-  IBRD's first global-bond issue denominated in
management and monitoring setup covering both  Japanese yen. The V250 billion ($1.9 billion
credit risk and interest-rate risk. Trading perfor-  equivalent) ten-year offering incorporated
mance is continuously measured against detailed  many of the liquidity-enhancing features of the
market-by-market benchmark portfolios.     IBRD's earlier global offerings in United
Enhancements were made in the manage-    States dollars, such as simultaneous offering
ment of the IBRD's liquid assets in the follow-  and trading in Europe, the United States, and
ing areas: (a) the use of a greater variety of  Japan and multimarket clearing and settlement
instruments and further exploitation of multi-  conventions. This approach provided the
ple trading approaches; (b) completion of the  IBRD with lower yen funding costs relative to
integration of the supporting computer systems  that of other borrowers of comparable credit
across trading, accounting, and control func-  and to its traditional yen offerings. The IBRD
tions; and (c) continued improvements in the  used anticipatory rate-setting arrangements for
performance-measurement system and in var-  the first time in connection with one of its
ious risk-monitoring systems.              United States dollar global-bond issues and
During fiscal 1992, the IBRD's financial re-  used deferred rate-setting arrangements for all
turn on its portfolio was 8.07 percent. The  three global-bond issues during the fiscal year
financial return on investments in fiscal year  to separate the timing of interest-rate fixings
1991 was 9.23 percent.                     from that of issuance.
In addition, the IBRD established a multi-
Borrowings and Liability Management        currency medium-term note (MTN) facility in
In framing its direct-market borrowing   August 1991 to take advantage of small place-
plans, the IBRD seeks to maintain, on the  ment opportunities arising at various times in
finest terms possible, a broadly diversified,  different segments of the European markets.
multicurrency, multimarket borrowing pro-  By the end of fiscal 1992, it had raised $0.6
gram. The centerpieces of this approach are (a)  billion through the facility in seventeen trans-
global offerings, where appropriate, and (b) the  actions involving Italian lire, European cur-
most extensive use (consistent with prudence  rency units, and United States dollars. The
and practicability) of markets in which the  IBRD also undertook its first two borrowings
IBRD enjoys comparative advantages in ac-  denominated in Portuguese escudos during fis-


﻿72   World Bank Finances
Table 4-1. IBRD Borrowings, Fiscal Year 1992
(amounts in millions)
US-dollar
Type                                 Issue                    Currency of issue  equivalenta
Medium- and long-term public offerings
Eurobond market    8.25% five-year bond, due 1997          ECU         150        184.8
Ten-year floating rate bond, due 2002   ECU         200        250.0
Ten-year floating rate bond, due 2002   ECU         250        311.4
8.375% eight-year bond, due 2000        F          1,000       175.4
9.05% five-year bond, due 1996          HK$         500         64.5
10.875% ten-year bond, due 2001         Lit      500,000       381.8
10.8% ten-year note, due 2001           Lit      500,000       405.4
10.4% ten-year bond, due 2002           Lit      500,000       407.0
Ten-year floating rate bond, due 2002   US$         250        250.0
6.0% five-year bond, due 1996           V         75,000       563.2
6.0% five-year bond, due 1996           V         80,000       626.6
Germany            8.75% ten-year bond, due 2001           DM          300        179.6
Portugal           12.0% five-year bond, due 1996          Esc       15,000       104.6
11.5% five-year bond, due 1997          Esc       16,900       123.2
Spain              11.0% five-year bond, due 1996          Ptas      15,000       144.4
Sweden             10.0% ten-year bond, due 2002           SKr         500         86.4
Global             7.25% five-year bond, due 1996          US$        1,500     1,498.5
6.75% ten-year bond, due 2002           US$        1,500      1,486.1
5.25% ten-year bond, due 2002           V        250,000      1,870.1
Total medium- and long-term public offerings                                  9,113.0
Medium- and long-term placements with central banks and governments
Germany            8.94% five-year note, due 1996          DM          250        143.1
8.01% five-year note, due 1997          DM          250        155.9
Intemationalb      7.3% two-year note, due 1993            Sw F        300        205.0
7.25% two-year note, due 1994           Sw F        252        168.5
6.49% two-year bond, due 1993           US$         150        150.0
5.35% two-year bond, due 1993           US$         150        150.0
5.58% two-year bond, due 1993           US$         150        150.0
5.28% two-year note, due 1993           US$         144        144.0
United States      Continuously Offered Longer-term
Securities (COLTS) Program            US$          66         66.0
Total medium- and long-term placements with central banks and governments       1,332.5
Medium- and long-term other placements
Eurobond market    20.0% five-year step-down note, due 1996  US$        50         49.9
6.0% ten-year bond, due 2001            V         10,000        76.2
Europe             9.0% five-year note, due 1996           ECU          20         24.0
Five-year floating rate note, due 1996  ECU          10         11.8
Five-year floating rate note, due 1997  ECU          65         79.4
Ten-year floating rate note, due 2002   ECU          50         62.5
Zero coupon five-year note, due 1996    Lit      100,000        46.3
10.625% five-year note, due 1996        Lit       40,000        30.8
10.625%, five-year note, due 1996       Lit       50,000        39.9
10.75% five-year note, due 1996         Lit       50,000        40.3
10.5% five-year note, due 1996          Lit       50,000        39.3
10.5% five-year note, due 1996          Lit       50,000        40.7
10.5% five-year note, due 1996          Lit       50,000        40.6
10.5% five-year note, due 1996          Lit       50,000        40.7
10.65% ten-year note, due 2002          Lit       50,000        44.0
10.8% five-year note, due 1996          Lit       50,000        39.1
Five-year floating rate note, due 1996  US$          25         25.0
Five-year floating rate note, due 1996  US$          20         20.0
Five-year floating rate note, due 1996  US$          19         18.5
Japan              6.9% seven-year loan, due 1998          V         62,500       482.6
Switzerland        7.0% seven-year loan, due 1998          Sw F        125         91.6
Total medium- and long-term other placements                                  1,343.2
Total medium- and long-term borrowings, fiscal 1992                              11,788.7


﻿Borrowings and Liability Management  73
US-dollar
Type                               Issue                   Currency of issue   equivalent'
Short-term borrowings outstanding'
Centrof tank t'cIht i U.S. dollar I                              2,600        2,600.0
COPS    .   iranesi                                     S% f         35          24.5
Discour noie; it 5 dollar '                            LS*       2,749       2,749.1
Short-icirm borroa ng% oui..andming , o(June 711. 1992                       5,373.6
a  MeJ,umn. nJ long-irrm  ame..ant  haieJ on gr.:), proceed... e\tiimd  vt eac.n  r)ls riv. ihng  ithe iimi, oflaunoi
F. Thce ! ucu; o= cr. placcJ wih ccriif.l ban rk  6, .einmrr.inie 3nd interraii.,rnal orz3nozanon,
,:. Nlrurng  ,Irh.n  one  .c r
d Coniinujoui,k -if(crizi ra.mlcril ricril 1in fr,n:.
Table 4.2. IBRD Borrowings. after Swaps. Fiscal Year 1992
.Tiu l-T  L- m l 1T1f I.L qU .J1C-T
Ain-uria\      ar    amr ...-.ni             u trr.unl  -r
T   t d la r,                 4.i  11    I l 4  .1         I  ( I. .4 11    3    69
Jaenral tn k e   n .hlI            .     I                              1     .- 311
Dci<~c mark                     4  t,   4   I, 9                                   7 nI I'
i,, fr.t n,   4t .S  JollarY .'."49.1    I                             1           311
~  Is~   '   4 ~   3   4      1'   X .4  11) 4N
Tot~III~                     ii'    3              I1F11   lil -3       6 69'
Cenir.I  bjnk  fa,cilil. iLl S  doIlh:r; i 2.11   41  I ,                          4 31)
COPS .I4 frarc'                 24 11       '.                                      61,
Diwount note  I L .S dollar, i   .w      I      337
Total  s o' June  311. 1992  5.33  6  11111  (1.4
N-,rE  Det II  m.  noi aJd o s al .1 be-,cu  .4  rouridr
I  Repre-iiri torro   ire  in Europri  urren.  uniri. Fren,h frar.,  H nt Kong doll a . Iiaii.rn lire  Portuoue e eCudc. 5.
Spni. rii.  jnd 5-fdi;h kr...ror
C 1oni,nuLui,l, .tCrcd p.nmnl  right -n S, -I Ir, -
Inc lude  Other .bolri-e,rm  r--rket h.rr,v, 1%  in  L1 '  dollir
d  Si-.o-i.rrn  h rr. *  rie . .:Ul-tr din:  .r i,rne iI Iii p41  ioi ,d  i - ii millon
cal 1992, bringing the total number of curren-  outstanding amounted to $91.7 billion, or 94
cies or currency units in which the IBRD has   percent of total outstanding debt. This in-
borrowed since July 1947 to twenty-eight.      cluded $91.6 billion of fixed-rate funding and
During fiscal 1992, the IBRD called an ag-   $0.1 billion of variable-rate funding. As of
gregate volume of $4.6 billion of outstanding  June 30, 1992, the average maturity of total
borrowings for prepayment, comprising $3.1     MLT debt was 6.4 years, and its average cost,
billion of Japanese yen borrowings, $1.3 billion  after swaps, was 7.10 percent.
of United States dollar borrowings, and $0.15    Short-term funding. During the fiscal year,
billion of ECU borrowings. In addition, it    the IBRD refinanced the $5.4 billion of short-
redeemed $0.2 billion of United States dollar  term borrowings that had been outstanding at
borrowings through market repurchases.         the end of fiscal 1991. At June 30, 1992, short-
At the end of the fiscal year, MLT funding   term borrowings outstanding were $5.4 billion


﻿74   World Bank Finances
equivalent, comprising $2.6 billion from offi-  macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment and
cial sources through the IBRD's central-bank  good economic performance. and protection of
facility, $2.8 billion from market borrowings in  the environment. Processes were instituted
United States dollars, and $25 million equiva-  and programs and projects oriented to reflect
lent in short-term Swiss franc borrowings. The  better these priorities in IDA country strate-
cost of these borrowings at the end of the fiscal  gies. The allocations at the sectoral, country.
year was 3.75 percent, compared with 6.12  and regional levels also reflected the deputies'
percent at the end of fiscal 1991.         advice. The directors expressed satisfaction
The IBRD's policy is to limit the share of  that progress was being made toward achieving
interest-sensitive liabilities in its portfolio to  the key objectives set for IDA-9.
the extent that short-term borrowings consti-  IDA's commitment authority. IDA's com-
tute no more than 10 percent of total debt  mitment authority for fiscal 1992 amounted to
outstanding and that short-term and variable-  SDR4.76 billion and was derived mainly from
rate funding do not exceed 15 percent of this  the receipt of the formal notifications to con-
volume. On June 30, 1992, short-term and vari-  tribute and the release of the second tranche of
able-rate funding aggregated $5.5 billion equiv-  donors' contributions to IDA-9. During the
alent, representing about 6 percent of total  course of the year, the association received
outstanding debt.                          formal notifications to participate in IDA-9
Capital. On June 30, 1992, the total sub-  from  Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Italy, the
scribed capital of the IBRD was $152.2 billion,  Netherlands, and the Russian Federation, as
or 83 percent of authorized capital of $184.05  well as an additional contribution of $25 million
billion. During fiscal 1992, subscriptions to the  from Kuwait. These notifications and Kuwait's
$74.8 billion general capital increase (GCI),  additional contribution increased IDA's com-
approved in April 1988, continued smoothly:  mitment authority during the year by SDR397
Twenty-two countries subscribed an aggregate  million. Commitment authority also increased
$8.1 billion. A total of 423,916 GCI shares ($51  by SDR3.31 billion when the association re-
billion, or 65 percent of total allocations, in-  ceived a substantial portion of the United
cluding additional GCI shares allocated to new  States' second installment to IDA-9. With this
members that joined the IBRD after April   installment, contributions from other donors,
1988) have now been subscribed by fifty-seven  who have submitted their notifications to par-
members; 231,360 shares ($27.9 billion) remain  ticipate in IDA-9, were released on a pro-rata
to be subscribed. At the end of fiscal 1992, the  basis with the United States' payment.
permissible increase of net disbursements, that  Other sources of commitment authority for
is, "headroom," was $67.6 billion, or 40 per-  fiscal 1992 included the transfer from  the
cent of the IBRD's lending limit.          IBRD's fiscal 1991 income of SDR260 million,
In April 1992, the board of governors ap-  as well as funds available from future reflows
proved the increase in authorized capital of  amounting to SDR795 million. Funds available
77,159 shares ($9.3 billion) to accommodate  from future reflows include: (a) advance com-
the membership of the fifteen republics of the  mitments of SDR650 million for general IDA
former Soviet Union.                       credits, (b) "annual allocations" of SDR118
Reserves. On June 30, 1992, reserves amount-  million to finance supplemental adjustment
ed to $11.2 billion, and the reserves-to-loan ratio  credits to IDA-only countries with outstanding
stood at 11.5 percent (excluding prefunding of  IBRD debt, and (c) a special allocation of
interest waivers).                         SDR75 million to support IDA-only countries
undertaking debt-reduction operations. Of the
IDA Finances                               special allocation, SDR27 million was used to
Fiscal 1992 was the second year of the ninth  finance an economic-recovery project in Nica-
replenishment of IDA (IDA-9). During the   ragua; the balance will be carried forward in
year, 110 IDA credits were approved in the  fiscal 1993.
amount of SDR4.8 billion. In December 1991,  IDA's commitment fee. IDA's commitment
the executive board approved the recommit-  fee was set at 0 percent from fiscal 1989
ment of SDR477 million of cancellations of  through fiscal 1992. IDA's basic financial pol-
IDA credits to India. SDR184 million was   icy is to cover administrative expenses through
recommitted in fiscal 1992; the balance is  income from credits. The latest financial pro-
scheduled to be recommitted in fiscal 1993.  jections for the fiscal 1993-to-fiscal 1995 period
In September 1991, the executive directors  indicate that income from service charges will
discussed a report on IDA's policies, opera-  fall short of administrative expenses at an
tions, and finances during the first year of  annual average amount of $29 million. IDA's
IDA-9. The report described progress made in  financial position. however, continues to be
the key priority areas of poverty reduction,  strong, as its cumulative surplus increased


﻿Cofinancing  75
from $543 million at the end of fiscal 1991 to  technical skills on the highest priority activities
$1,259 million at the end of fiscal 1992. In view  in the Bank's borrowing countries.
of the overall financial surplus of IDA, it was  The volume of cofinancing anticipated in
agreed that the commitment fee for fiscal 1993  support of World Bank-assisted operations ap-
be continued at 0 percent                  proved in fiscal 1992 was $13,266 million.
Negotiations on a tenth replenishment. Ne-  Roughly 52 percent of all Bank-assisted
gotiations on a tenth replenishment of IDA's  projects and programs attracted some form of
resources (IDA- 10) were launched with a meet- cofinancing (see Table 4-3). By region, 37
ing of IDA deputies in January 1992 in Paris  percent of the cofinancing volume was for
and a subsequent meeting in April 1992 in  operations in Africa, 25 percent in East Asia
Washington. Deputies from thirty-four coun-  and Pacific, 22 percent in Latin America and
tries took part in these meetings. Among the  the Caribbean, 9 percent in Middle East and
major issues covered during the two meetings  North Africa, 5 percent in South Asia, and 2
were: IDA's role in supporting economic    percent in Europe and Central Asia. In terms
growth and poverty reduction during the past  of number of cofinanced operations, the distri-
decade, an examination of IDA's allocation  bution by region indicates that 42 percent was
criteria, IDA's role in development aid, and  in Africa, 19 percent in Latin America and the
measures to supplement IDA's donor re-     Caribbean, 14 percent in East Asia and Pacific,
sources. At the April 1992 meeting of the   10 percent in South Asia, 9 percent in Middle
Development Committee, ministers, while rec-  East and North Africa, and 6 percent in Eu-
ognizing the budgetary constraints of many  rope and Central Asia.
donors, nonetheless recognized the need for  The sectors receiving the most cofinancing
IDA deputies to reach agreement by the end of  support were power, water supply, and non-
1992 on a tenth replenishment, preferably at a  sector specific. Sectors showing a large gain in
level substantially above that of IDA-9.   cofinancing support, when compared with fis-
Additional meetings were scheduled to be  cal 1991, were power, water supply, and indus-
held in July 1992 in Dublin and in September  trial development/finance. Investment loans
1992 in Washington to discuss issues of size  received the biggest share of cofinancing sup-
and burden sharing. Resources contributed un-  port, followed by sector-adjustment and struc-
der IDA-10 will provide the association with  tural-adjustment loans.
funds to cover credit commitments in the pe-  The largest source of cofinancing in fiscal
riod fiscal 1994 through fiscal 1996. At those  1992 continued to be official bilateral and mul-
meetings, deputies will also consider a pro-  tilateral development institutions, which, to-
posal, made by the Bank's president, Lewis T.  gether, accounted for $8,872 million, or 67
Preston, to delegates attending the United Na-  percent of total cofinancing. Official cofinanc-
tions Conference on Environment and Devel-  ing from Japan, mainly through the Overseas
opment, to establish an "Earth increment,"  Economic Cooperation Fund and the Export-
entailing incremental resources to be used dur-  Import Bank of Japan, continued to account
ing the IDA-10 period to help the poorest  for the largest percentage of support of Bank-
countries meet their environmental objectives.  assisted operations. This cofinancing aggre-
If donors are prepared to support this initia-  gated $1,379 million equivalent for thirty-one
tive, Bank management would propose to the  projects approved in fiscal 1992, or 37 percent
executive board that an annual allocation from  of total bilateral cofinancing. A sizable cofi-
the IBRD's net income be made available as  nancing contribution also came from  the
the Bank's contribution to the "Earth incre-  United States ($675 million) and Germany
ment" to help address national environmental  ($379 million). South Africa moved to fourth
issues.                                    position, as a result of its support to the
Highlands Water Project in Lesotho ($241 mil-
Cofinancing                                lion). Large amounts of bilateral cofinancing
Since the creation of the Vice Presidency for  also came from France ($209 million) and the
Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services  United Kingdom ($190 million). Cofinancing
(CFS) in 1989, the Bank's role as a catalyst for  with multilateral institutions totaled $5,157 mil-
promoting the flow of additional financial re-  lion. Cofinancing with the Inter-American De-
sources to developing countries has continued  velopment Bank ($1,958 million) continued to
to grow. The CFS helps mobilize financial  be the largest in this category, accounting for
resources by providing general coordination of  38 percent of the total. Other increased cofi-
official and private-sector cofinancing of Bank  nancing support came from the African Devel-
projects. In early 1992, CFS put in place a new  opment Bank, the Asian Development Bank,
organizational structure to streamline the pro-  and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
cess of resource mobilization and to focus its  Development.


﻿76    World Bank Finances
Table 4-3. World Bank Cofinancing Operations, by Region, Fiscal Years 1991-92
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
Projects            Source of cofinancinga         World Bank
cofinanced    Officialb  Export credit  Private     contribution    Total
project
Region and year    No. Amount No. Amount No. Amount No. Amount          IBRD     IDA     costs
Africa
1991            54   2,215.3  53  1,973.0  2    147.0  3      95.3   650.7 1,848.2  6,169.2
1992            48   4,868.8  48 2,959.4   1  1,174,2  1     735.2   548.0 2,445.5  9,268.2
East Asia and
Pacific
1991            15     698.6  15   613.2   1     85.4  -       -   1,519.3   309.9  3,907.2
1992            16   3,297.0  16 1,167.5   4  1,956.2  2     173.3  2,088.5  147.0  11,193.1
South Asia
1991            15   1,894.1  14 1,130.5   1    745.6   1     18.0   676.0   717.8  5,508.4
1992            12     639.4  11   284.2   2    206.7   1    148.5 1,045.0   903.3  4,067.6
Europe and Central
Asia
1991            11   1,203.2  10   845.0   2    226.9  1     131.3 2,287.0     -    6,445.3
1992             7     307.5   7   307.5   -       -   -       -     872.0    41.1   1,852.5
Latin America and
the Caribbean
1991            20   1,743.4  20 1,654.4   -       -    1     89.0 1,844.0   105.7  4,922.9
1992            22   3,000.9  22 3,000.9   -      -    -       -   2,363.3   323.6  7,078.0
Middle East and
North Africa
1991            12    965.1   11   865.1  -       -    1     100.0   933.0   205.6  2,582.1
1992            10   1,152.3  10 1,152.3   -      -    -       -     940.0   158.0  3,304.4
Total
1991           127   8,719.7 123 7,081.2   6   1,204.9  7    433.6 7,910.0 3,187.2 29,535.0
1992           115 13,265.8 114 8,871.7    7  3,337.1  4   1,057.0 7,856.8 4,018.5 36,763.8
- Zero.
NOTE: The number of operations shown under different sources add up to a figure exceeding the total number of cofinanced
projects because a number of projects were cofinanced from more than one source. Details may not add to totats because
of rounding.
a. These statistics are compiled from the financing plans presented at the time of approval of the World Bank loans by its
board of executive directors. The amounts of official cofinancing are, in most cases, firm commitments by that stage; export
credits and private cofinancing amounts are, however, generally only estimates since such cofinancing is actually arranged
as required for project implementation and gets firmed up a year or two after board approval. The statistics of private
cofinancing in these tables for any fiscal year do not necessarily reflect market placements in that year.
b. These figures include cofinancing with untied loans from the Export-Import Bank of Japan.
There was also a notable increase in the        ized for the Philippines. Export-credit agencies
volume of export-credit cofinancing planned       from   Germany, Japan, Korea, Switzerland,
for projects approved during the year-from         and the United States wilt participate in this
$1,205 million in fiscal 1991 to $3,337 million in  facility. The Philippines' EXCEL facility com-
fiscal 1992. The main reason for the increase      plemented a $175 million IBRD     loan for an
was an expansion of Bank lending for sectors       Industrial Restructuring Project.
that attract a substantial proportion of export      The focus of CFS's project-financing activi-
credit (power and water supply and sewerage,       ties is to provide assistance on large infrastruc-
for example). The volume of private cofinanc-      ture projects undertaken by the Bank. In struc-
ing also increased, to $1,057 million.            turing cofinancing for these projects, emphasis
The    export-credit   enhanced     leverage    is placed on combining private-sector capital
(EXCEL) program completed its first year of        and finance with support from    governments
operation. The program is intended to secure       and the Bank. One vehicle for project financing
export credit to private-sector borrowers for      is the  Expanded     Cofinancing   Operations
investments evaluated and supported by a           (ECO) program, which, by providing partial
Bank-assisted financial intermediary. The first    World Bank guarantees, is intended to support
EXCEL facility, totaling $75 million, was final-   eligible Bank borrowers seeking to gain or


﻿Cofinancing  77
Table 4-4. IBRD and IDA Foreign and Local Disbursements, by Source of Supply
iam-ura, In mailli-in, o.f UIS do
IBRD and IDA
Nei  ,r,:,
d,hur 'eften'    To l
Pe r':.o                   Arnm0nu Prr.aunT                   m.n t ,lan..,uror
'4 uws         T.I*.2  1  .I1     i -11           I  .44 l
nri[d  Aiim       u io..n                  m.re 3m. iu' 1t      A..um 3mo 4n 1
.Aaioura  I. l  d,h'r  ,n  i,r i ur,c nit ni-  fi  I'-.1 -T i,,n  in  F N  w'  i '%IIr. IlI wr. in  F -I  -,no   41  millwo.  In IFYC.
ir      a      o  sy I ri F NqInd icatd io 11 n, 11 , m er cil n  -F 'i -r IF.X.
h. \.  A1  ar,c di.i,ur.. menT.  r..   jr~ad- ,m Le i,.~. c-  : c n o  -~ .( :i-our-1 : r- cd 1 irn.'i[  Ior -.Ii.h IN  B.rink
r.  ipplic-d  e,i& n CC L- I t%perdIIi,fe  i., rez .er% o! ih.; out,indiria  J% jo,e
Table 4-5. IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements. b Source of Supply
mlituain on tillina of Lh exI g in,e
IbRD                                ID.%
pEo pra  NspeialyLC D i v aeE-csre Npio jEC e)
Such oe,rto        unn wlint birntpirp oirsed aftoun nXoanil
ou nid o    B   p          h   b   f
June  311. 1,),%  45.FIS  NN  'h 1i3  11  i1  'II  13.,N44    2.Kol   I'    661
Fi cai  1,sls   444  T'       MS' i                72.4  1. .1,  '4    '4   '.423
Fi c.1j  I i)vi 1            1.2     1    h.h 11   1 4t'l  f     --I,  34    22l
Fimiacl bnks1   o.ul1 ni  a .s 3   u      S4 e  a.t 50               I      .694
F 14c.,I ],4Q'   I.Li6i   4    .-7( It t2  . "2Ii1  1.34  64    54     36    2.33-
C u    onu .  a p      s, LE     c
June  3''1. 1110  "11.4 2h  %%  13.4i  16  ' l -ISh   I 14t      0    23    - Y  ~'s
NOTEr  )i.I'urm': w l m 1r , .r dehi  eJu.Tiio  ir 1 nc   i. ir - ji-ur,erriri,  ir  n:.Iudeo '.r LBR )  nolIi  DA  Dk(il  ... m'.  i
improve access to syndicated commercial-    100 percent of sovereign risks, provided that
bank loans or international capital markets. In  there had been an appropriate division of risks
May 1992, the program was reviewed by the   between the public and private sectors. In any
executive directors, who approved its contin-  event, the Bank's cover should be the mini-
uation on the basis of the existing guidelines,  mum necessary to mobilize the necessary fi-
except for two modifications:               nancing for a productive purpose.
* ECOs on a stand-alone basis may be ap-    The Bank intends to catalyze private cofi-
propriate, especially in private-sector projects.  nancing in a broader range of developmental
Such operations will be proposed after normal  projects in more member countries through
Bank appraisal of the project has been carried  increased flexibility and a renewed commit-
out and other Bank procedures have been fully  ment to consider ECO program applications
satisfied.                                  more systematically in the process of formu-
* While the maximum cover for ECO guar-   lating individual country strategies.
antees on lending to the public sector by com-  Two examples of project-financing opera-
mercial banks would continue as before at 50  tions that were processed in fiscal 1992 were
percent on a present-value basis, ECOs could  the Hub Power Project in Pakistan and the
cover on loans to private-sector projects up to  Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization


﻿78    World Bank Finances
Table 4-6. IBRD and IDA Payments to Suppliers in Active Borrowing Countries for
Foreign and Local Procurement in Fiscal 1992
(millions of US dollars)
Lx :.     F.lr.*,,n     T.a. i        *111a
Borrowing courirrre,               pro:curenent   rr.  munenr    md,0r,i    di,ur-emr i.
Algeria~                                I
T                            T
Argentina                              96             98           194           1.18
Bahama;. The                             t            34            34           0.21
Banglades.h                            134             4            138          0.84
Barbado-                                I                           1              *
Beh7c                                   2              t             2
Benin                                  10              2            12           0.07
Bhutin                                  t              t             I              *
Boli a                                 17             3            20           0.12
Botswana                                 8             1             9           0.05
Brazil                                 444           266            710          4.32
Bulgaria                                -              1              1             *
Burkina Faso                            23             7            23           0.14
Burundi                                 16             1             17          0.10
Cameroon                                37             2            39           0.24
Cape Verde                               1             t              1             *
Central African Republic                 8             t             8           0.05
Chad                                    10             t             10          0.06
Chile                                  199            15            214           1.30
China                                  764           215            979          5.95
Colombia                               152            15            167           1.02
Comoros                                  2            -              2              *
Congo                                    t            -              t              *
Costa Rica                               3            12            15           0.09
C6te d'Ivoire                           61            30            91           0.55
Cyprus                                   8            10            18           0.11
Czechoslovakia                          -             16            16           0.10
Djibouti                                 2             5             7              *
Dominica                                -              3             3              *
Dominican Republic                       7                           7              *
Ecuador                                 42            66            108          0.66
Egypt                                    9            24            33           0.20
El Salvador                              5             4             9           0.05
Equatorial Guinea                        2            -              2              *
Ethiopia                                16             t             16          0.10
Fiji                                     1             t              1             *
Gabon                                    4             6             10          0.06
Gambia, The                              3            -              3              *
Ghana                                   30             2             32          0.19
Grenada                                  t             1             2              *
Guatemala                                t            11             11          0.07
Guinea                                   7             t             7              *
Guinea-Bissau                            3             t             3              *
Guyana                                  -              t              t             *
Haiti                                    3             t             3              *
Honduras                                18             1             19          0.12
Hungary                                 54            10            64           0.39
India                                1,124            66          1,190          7.24
Indonesia                              671            14           685           4.17
Jamaica                                  2             t             2
Jordan                                  35            16             51          0.31
Kenya                                   35            16            51           0.31
Korea, Republic of                      98           127           225            1.37
Lao People's Democratic Republic         2            -              2
Lesotho                                  6            -              6
Madagascar                               7             t             7              *
Malawi                                  39             2            41           0.25


﻿Cofinancing    79
Percentage
Local          Foreign         Tot.d          if Total
B     FLrrom r'utrite,              pr%ocurernt   r.rox uremrnenr  am.unt d ur,e rnet,
Malas sia                                 145              61            2U6            l.25
N1aldies                                                                   il
NIal i                                     I'               t             l'            <P10
Mauritanma                                 6                612                        t0 I~
Nlauritius                                  i
Nico 44                                                   '6          Ih060           6.45
Niorocco                                  r'3              l5i           18             I 14
\lozambique                                VI                                           0.05
M anmir                                                    I                            05
Nepal                                      14               I             I1 1"9
N icaragua                                -3                               3
Niger                                      iI                      i      il             l -
Nigeria                                    I               43            122             ."4
Oman                                      16                             1 's            IIl
Paki..tan                                 2.~              l'            2nd            I.
Pa nama                                                    34             3.4           .21
Papua Ne%k Guinea                          I                              1 3 i ii
Paragua\                                                    4             11            il
Peru                                        i35                          36             022
Philippnes                               265              12 2
Poland                                      l34                           35            ('21
Portugal                                                   IS            26               16
Romamta                                     3                                            ON 13  i 5
Ru anda                                   10                             I'1            0 06
Sdo Trne and Principe
Seregal                                    34               8            42             i 26
Seyc helles                                                -
Solomon Itlands                             2
Somalia                                    -I                              I
SNr Lanka                                  33               i             34            ' 2
S[ KitLs and NetiQ
St Lucia                                                    I
St \ incent and the Grenadine,                              2
Stn c                                                                     6
Su az land                                                  4             4
Tanzania I                                                 3             14
Thailand                                  Sb              2'             11-
Toøo                                       8                4             2              .0"
[ronga                                                      t
T rniJ.id and Tobago
Tunsi                                     ¯       I        I            S2             Ii j
Turke%                                    SU               61           241              4
U1ganda                                   23                             24             <'IS
LIrugua                                    12                             l9            0 12
\ anuatu
\eneiuela                                                  s3            86             0.S2
%k etern Sarra                                            T                              -
'yrnn. Rcpublic cf                                         T             IS            <il
Yugo'lasa                                  45 La                        I25              .'6
Zaire                                      9                3             12            00?
Zambia                                                      3              4
Zimbabe                                                    21            26 ilh
Total                                 6.Sf            l."3           .542            51.%
-  Zer.  T io  thifnl Ii  rillin    le,,  in u,.u  rercent
N-rE D,,iarernenl, ior debi r.tdu,l.n and net ad. ane dhburerents re  ciuded for IBRD and ID-\ Detail, ma ntI
add 1o rtah tec u,e  ,I rurdin.
.  Refer, to the  --fe .:  . J1 IBRD  nd  IDA  p..r-t,  er k. a  ?  ach  u"Iaied $1. a  inilhrn


﻿80   World Bank Finances
Project in Jamaica. The first of these opera-  Saharan Africa. As of December 31, 1991,
tions involves the design, construction, and  SPA donors had allocated some $4.5 billion, or
operation of a thermal power station by the  over 60 percent of $7.3 billion pledged for
private sector. A proposed ECO, along with  cofinancing and coordinated financing. Donors
the Export-Import Bank of Japan, will provide  to the SPA are projected to disburse approxi-
a guarantee of $360 million to an international  mately 80 percent, or $5.8 billion, of the
syndicate of commercial banks against specific  amount pledged to hetp meet the balance-of-
sovereign risks. Significant export-credit fi-  payments requirements of the SPA-eligible
nancing is also being mobilized. The Jamaican  countries in 1991-93.
project will provide urgently needed power-  In addition to mobilizing resources, a key
generation capacity. A $90 million private-  objective of the SPA is to improve the quality
energy fund, to be financed by the Bank and  of adjustment assistance. At the April 1992
the Inter-American Development Bank, with  biannual meeting of SPA donors, a set of
possible cofinancing from Japan and other guidelines was approved that calls for recipient
sources, was created to attract investment in  countries and donors to eliminate their admin-
the sector.                                istrative controls and to place greater reliance
Advice on external-debt management was   on market mechanisms and commercial-pro-
also provided by the CFS vice presidency to a  curement and commercial-payment practices
wide range of member countries. Bank assis-  in implementing import-support programs fi-
tance helps countries organize and analyze  nanced with SPA resources.
debt data in preparation for debt-restructuring  In addition to cofinancing, the donor com-
negotiations and strengthens institutions with  munity provided substantial support for the
responsibility for debt management. During  Bank during the year through trust funds and
1992, a debt and debt-service reduction (DDSR)  other arrangements that, directly or indirectly,
agreement was reached between Nigeria and  benefit recipient countries. To date, consultant
its respective bank committee; agreements in  trust funds have been established with twenty-
principle were also reached between the Phil-  five donors. Under the consultant trust-fund
ippines (phase two) and Argentina and their  program, $29 million in grant funds have been
commercial creditors.                      allocated in support of the Bank's operational
A two-year extension of the Debt Reduction  work. This includes funding under special ar-
Facility for IDA-only Countries was approved  rangements established in support of environ-
by the executive board in March 1992. The  ment-related  activities, women-in-develop-
facility was established to ease the commer-  ment, and the Bank's work in Central and
cial-debt burden of IDA-only countries. Two  Eastern Europe. Furthermore, discussions are
buyback operations, for Niger and Mozam-   under way with several donors to initiate fund-
bique, were completed under the auspices of  ing arrangements for Bank-executed technical-
facility in fiscal 1992.                   assistance activities.
Private-sector development and privatiza-  On July 30. 1990, with resources provided
tion activities connected with cofinancing  by Japan, a special fund for policy and human-
strategies and programs are being carried out  resource development (the PHRD Fund) was
by the Bank's operational staff. In fiscal 1992,  established within the Bank. This fund serves
CSF provided technical assistance for privati-  as the umbrella organization for five previously
zation/divestiture programs, as well as struc-  existing funds that the Bank had administered
tural-adjustment, sectoral-adjustment, public-  on behalf of Japan. In fiscal year 1992, Bank
sector reform, and privatization operations  commitments under the PHRD Fund totaled
in Argentina, Bangladesh, Colombia, C6te   $105.8 million. The government of Japan has
d'Ivoire, Egypt, Ghana, Hungary, Indonesia, appropriated $127.5 million for PHRD-related
Kenya, Jamaica, Peru, Poland, Sri Lanka,   activities during the Bank's 1993 fiscal year.
Tanzania, and Uruguay.                     The increase of more than 20 percent in the
Other major cofinancing activities carried  budget allocation to the fund reflects the gov-
out in fiscal 1992 included those under the  ement of Japan's continued awareness of the
Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for debt-  importance of preparing project-feasibility
distressed, low-income countries in sub-   studies, promoting private-sector development
Saharan Africa, now in its second phase, cov-  and privatization, ensuring global environmen-
ering the period 1991-93. Under the second  tal safeguards, and furthering the role of
phase of the program, some seventeen bilateral  women in development.
and multilateral donors have pledged $7.3 bil-
lion in quick-disbursing assistance in support  Disbursements, by Source of Supply
of adjustment programs in twenty-six low-    Projects financed by the World Bank require
income, debt-distressed countries in sub-  procurement from foreign and local sources to


﻿Disbursements, by Source of Supply  81
Table 4-7. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
11RLI
teu m li SRD    --.   T  JiDA-nuil '<  x .t
1,_ Ih  n| i,.                                  r
suJPrr. u'c.unr.            Xrn -ul  .-m.           \mn'unl      mrun
thn%i ni B-. r ud-t
A l ni                                 -
AL e ri                                                            - - r
Aniua  ånd B.lrhud..                      - -   --
Arge~nhina                   'iS                 - I5 '1   .  5- <.   4
.\usrirå  9r4                      I2    2     I      ril[
Bah Iin
BångLådesh                     I4               'I     f      I     I
Babao---                               -       4
Bie                                     -     -
Bienm,k51.inlf.                           ý1
BIb,                                              3                       11.
Boi,\an                                     4              .     I
Bra l -,n·                    -    I    21                  '           I  4
bulg.rru                                                          - -    -
l   hurkinn.,  a
Burund,                                  --    - -
mi.rdI                                   -      --
L merl'f                       4ron,
( pe  \ erde                              --     -t
Cc n[ral AirI.rn RcpubIi.
Cihad                                      T-                            -
Chiena'2
t efn'r  ,                                --     -      -               --
(a  .fl
l  nd 4                       3 'rBi-    4     i  I         .        I    i
FÅ  pu aneII                             '4   'II   I-
(¯-                                    i3     25n': 4
ri-mrk.                    -10
E n11ade'i                                     -'.
u[-'                          -
I-ni  id    I      -I    1    Il  -  '41HII-14          tf


﻿82    World Bank Finances
Table 4-7 (continued)
IBRD
cumulative     IBRD fiscal   IDA cumulative
to June 30, 1992    1992       to June 30, 1992  IDA fiscal 1992
Supplying count-.                 Am.,rr    -    m .ur.r  o    Amount    %    Amount     %
Guyana
Haiti                                         -      -
Honduras                                             I               2
Hungary                              12.    I       S      ).1     20     0.1      2     0.1
Iceland                                             I       *                     -       -
India                                20'    "       2"     '.3     450     1.6     45     1.9
Indonesia                            I 1     I      Il     0.2      33     0.1      3     0.1
Iran, Islamic Republic of42                 2       -'    1.0     146     0.5     46     2.0
Iraq                                 - 4.!4                         29     0.1      1
Ireland                              92     0.1     12     0.2      55     0.2      9     0.4
Israel                               201    0.2      9     0.1      67     0.2      3     0.1
Italy                              4,866    5.6    319     4.7    1,269    4.4     66     2.8
Jamaica                               15     *      -                I       *      t       *
Japan                             12,348   14.3    692    10.3    3,475   12.1    168     7.2
Jordan                                49    0.1      1       *      115    0.4     15     0.6
Kenya                                 28             t       *     156     0.5     16     0.7
Korea, Republic of                   844    1.0     99      1.5    524     1.8     27     1.2
Kuwait                               218    0.3     15     0.2     155     0.5              *
Lao People's Democratic Republic      -     -       -       -          f
Lebanon                               64    0.1      5     0.1      21     0.1      t       *
Lesotho                                t            -       -                *     -
Liberia                               26     *       1              18     0.1      t       *
Libya                                 81    0.1     68     1.0       1       *      1       *
Luxembourg                            56    0.1      1       *      29     0.1      3     0.1
Madagascar                            8      *               *       I       *      t       *
Malawi                                 1            -       -        9       *      2     0.1
Malaysia                             290    0.3     40     0.6     185     0,6     20     0.9
Maldives                               1            -       -        f       *              *
Mali                                   ,     *       t       *       4              t       *
Malta                                  ?     *      -       -        .
Mauritania                             6     *       1       *       5       *      5     0.2
Mauritius                              1     *I              *      11       *              *
Mexico                               409    0.5     49     0.7      90     0.3     26     1.1
Morocco                              156    0.2     14      0.2     46     0.2      t       *
Mozambique                             4             t       *       7       *      I       *
Myanmar                               18     *       1       *       9       *      1
Namibia                                                                      *
Nepal                                  1             I               1       *      T
Netherlands                        1,564    1.8    158     2.3     692     2.4     59     2.5
New Zealand                          128    0.1     10     0.1      73     0.3     20     0.9
Nicaragua                             8      *       1       *       6       *      3     0.1
Niger                                  2     *      -       -        9              f
Nigeria                              107    0.1      7     0.1     144     0.5     36     1.5
Norway                               229    0.3     11     0.2      90     0.3     11     0.5
Oman                                  36     *      -       -       13       *      2     0.1
Pakistan                              95    0.1      2       *     129     0.5     15     0.6
Panama                               340    0.4     25     0.4      24     0.1      9     0.4
Papua New Guinea                       I             ?       *               *      -      -
Paraguay                             101    0.1      3       *       3              1       *
Peru                                 Ill    0.1     34     0.5      12       *      1       *
Philippines                           63    0.1      3       *      66     0.2      9     0.4
Poland                                94    0.1     28     0.4      30     0.1      6     0.3
Portugal                             42      *       1             159     0.6     16     0.7


﻿Disbursements, by Source of Supply  83
IBRI)
umuRc fIR          ca.c:2   ID\  una..e
t"  ijn, .C   iuuict It,iin,        111. 14-'  ID) A  11-,a 1 9
S  ippi n m  inrT s             Ä rnoun  -      m  n     ·· " .r, i,..  - r.-,In       ..
r122                                                   . 1    1  1  ~  '      .      mi
Ro  mnt,a                         231    113       s    i 1             1.2      2      1 1
R%,nda                                3 -                 --              
Shi ome and Puincipe               --             -      -                      -       -
%audi Arbi.                        452            10     1 h     iS4    f S      6       3
Senegal                              22              2              52    1.2      6     1.3
Se; chelle,                          -              --     -                      -       -
Sierra Leine                          4             -      -                      -       -
Singapore                           7t,"i  '1 4    1111.   1.      44S    I t.     44     1.
Smlornon Iar,nd-
South Atricå                        2~     I 1       4    I.       3%     1 4     nh      2 s
Spa!n                               941    1  1      "     1.4     l  i   i        l i     .
Sri Lanka                            Ii u 1 1
Si. Kin and Ne, -,-                                       -
S  Lucij                              1             -      -
St \·incent and the Grenadire,       -              -      -         4             2
Sudan                                 .
Surinarnc
S.,eJen                            .331     5      52    c'      33'     12      1'     ''5
S'  rt rland                     3.493   4  i      1~   4 ''     ~2     2  ~      3     31i
S rin Arah Republic                 22      -       4    'i2        -
l nzlania                            n                             14              2     i
Th.iil.,nd                          lII    ii        1             253             h   21  II
Toco                                                                21   ''1
Ionc.-                                              -      -
Trirdad and 1 ohag I                             5      i      4      -       1
Iuni,ia                              54    I  1     4     i  1    2      i-
Turke\                              145                     N2    12  ii       4      u.2
Lconda a                                            I                              r       F
L mied Arah Emirjie,             S               I     1i il  24                    ci.
U1nled ktidimi c                   421 .4        414    6 1    4.ii   14.2    2s5    12 1
L'n,ied  S,,i                     -.46   23 2   1 l1    16f     I4lhs  l1.0   2114      '
L'rugua\                             54    '1i            u.1       1
\cneuca S                               0.4      2     14        1a   14        ,    24
\ ict Nm                             32             -      -    -        II         A    Ii
Wc,.lern  Tm                        ,      -                                     -
Yemen Repuhlic '1                                  --     -       2     91 o -
ug h la\                          SI -   m1 4      1i   1|  1 1  |s     iil      |      11 5
7  lhre  l,                                                        22     i        *i     i
Z amhi.-i                            "-                             aS    1l13           ii1. !
Zimba .  e                          34                   il 1            1-  2    I.
-  fler                           ris    11             i1  5           )i ,9           1  4
Toal                           3.si    9¯ 1   f.-l    -4  3 C..-C5    9'.9  2.3    '  6
L)iijr.emeren, for debi reii in  .'            m Si  i         Is     i      l     114
loil turcin JIur erins       51.411  lI u      -   1    l  2s.62$  Iii     2.34   1 1111
-  Z r i h--  rh  ivn s i - mIi   l . , rhn  i  5  rerari
N. - Da.r.- r -n,ni- Icc ,teh-  rcdu,uor. .id  rit 1d.A sr-  di,.jrCVmTr.i  ,  uded iir  Lik ,n IIIJ DIBnlD  j P. n
,dd i.  tl    c -r t ju-t unn
 .1 ritt.  Kriled .iin..lude, Hon.  ik..ni.


﻿84    World Bank Finances
Table 4-8. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement,
by Description of Goods, Fiscal 1992
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
All other      Total
Equipment    Civil works   Consultants     goods      disbursements
Afgroni..in                        -    -       -
Algcri.                    -       -    -       -     -
Argenuna                   5u    1.2v    2     U.4u                 46    1.22    96    I.m
Australia                  20    0.48                  *  11  1.88  62   1.64    93    1.03
Austria                    98    2.35    2     0.40    4    0.68    31   0.82    134    1.48
Bahamas, The                t      *    -       -      t            34   0.90     34   0.38
Bahrain                     1    0.02   -       -              *     9   0.24    10    0.11
Bangladesh                  4      *    -       -     -       -      4   0.11     4    0.04
Barbados                   -      -     -       -      4       *     4      *             *
Belgium                    79    1.89   17     3.43   13    2.22    71    1.88   180    1.99
Belize                                  -       -     -       -     -      -       t      *
Benin                       t      *     t       *    -       -      2   0.05     2    0.02
Bhutan                     -      -     -       -     -       -      4      *      4      *
Bolivia                    -      -      t       *    -       -      3   0.08      3   0.03
Botswana                    1    0.02            *    -       -      t      *      1   0.01
Brazil                     72    1.72    4    0.81     1    0.17   188   4.97    266   2.94
Bulgaria                                -       -     -       -      1   0.03      1   0.01
Burkina Faso                t      *                           *            *      4      *
Burundi                    -      -      4       *     t             t      *      1   0.01
Cameroon                    4       *                   *  1  0.17  1   0.03      2   0.02
Canada                     66    1.58    3     0.61   45    7.69    55    1.46   167    1.85
Cape Verde                 -      -     -       -      T       *           -       t      *
Central African Republic   -      -     -       -      t       *           -       t      *
Chad                       -      -     -       -     -       -      4      *      4      *
Chile                       5    0.12    1       *     t       *    10    0.26    15   0.17
China                      71    1.70   80    16.16    4    0.68    60    1.59   215    2.38
Colombia                    1    0.02    6     1.21    1    0.17     7   0.19     15   0.17
Costa Rica                  3    0.07    t       *     2    0.34     7   0.19     12   0.13
C6te d'lvoire               5    0.12    t       *             *    23   0.61     30   0.33
Cyprus                      5    0.12   -       -      t       *     4   0.11     10   0.11
Czechoslovakia              9    0.22   -       -     -       -      7   0.19    16    0.18
Denmark                    77    1.84    5     1.01   15    2.56     9   0.24    106    1.17
Djibouti                    1    0.02   -       -     -       -      4   0.11      5   0.06
Dominica                   -      -      t             4             3    0.08     3   0.03
Dominican Republic          t      *    -       -      I       *           -       t      *
Ecuador                     4            1    0.20     t       *    64    1.69    66   0,73
Egypt, Arab Republic of     t      *     2    0.40     1    0.17    21   0.56     24   0.27
El Salvador                 1    0.02   -       -      t       *     3   0.08      4   0.04
Ethiopia                   -      -      t       *             *    -      -              *
Fiji                       -      -      4       *    -       -     -      -       4
Finland                    25    0.60   -       -      1    0.17    29   0.77     55    0.61
France                    390    9.33   67    13.54   77   13.16   226   5,98   760    8.41
Gabon                       1    0.02   -       -     -       -      6    0.16     6   0.07
Germany                   524   12.54   67    13.54   40    6.84   244   6.46    874   9.67
Ghana                      -      -     -       -              *     2   0.05      2   0.02
Greece                      4    0.10    t       *     I    0.17    41    1.08    45    0.50
Grenada                    -      -      t       *    -       -      1   0.03      1   0.01
Guatemala                   3    0.07   -       -     -       -      8   0.21    i     0.12
Guinea                     -      -     -       -     -       -                    t *    *
Guinea-Bissau              -      -              *    -       -      4      *      4      *


﻿Disbursements, by Source of Supply  85
All other      Total
Equipment    Civil works  Consultants    goods      disbursements
Suppi .n r ,., rr  .   \       -    -\fin   ~  \  -uI   -   \irlr . .   .
G  na-                     --    --     -    --     --                  T
H,                                                             t
Ho1,nduij as                     -     --     -  -         -      I    I 1i    I    1111l
Hungir.                        I  -     -           .                  I I    l'    1  Il
Lceland                                -      -    -       -      I    I 13    I    1.1l
Irdi-.                    I       u         II  'l  ~    I  2u   [3   li  34  ht-,   li
Indnesl,                              -      -    --      - e3 j       ~4    14    l [i
Ir.in. bmki.  Rpubli if  -      -     --     -    -       -    !1!   2 94   !Ii    I.2
Iruci                     -      -     --     -    --      -      '    i '5    '    i.
1,l.tnd                    -   l  ~         I  2I   4    i.-I    12 r a  1      1 h :
-                              ti n1.   - 4             '  hS    .   i  16   I   I   2
i-lI I                       44n ,,¯      2l.h2    I   I  a    S2   2 1    3      4lit,
Lms                       --"    --    -       -7-         -
.lapanl                  "'  16.jS    l      1; 3  22   3 ¯6   114     11 al in    9 32
Iordan                    -  -         -  -     -               16  II 42   Ilb   u l
Ken- R                    -                                                   h u2  r  -  - '  lI  u  2  I  I 41
u .i -                      -    --       -     -                             . 1 47 .
Lebanel,n                 --     --     4   Il    I    ul~      I-           '    Iuun
N   hia                                -      -    -       -          ii.i3    I   lillI
Lh                  --     -    --      --   --      --   n'u   1.53    i"-  i,~
Nu\crk i urg               I   Ilu1    -      --l         I  -    3   uI             I u.lln
ladgawr                --     --    -      --.                 T
N    I                                -      --                 2 i,5        2    k  i.
l1114         l .l1       I    1l ~ 1  3    1.4u       u n-
taI.dise,                -       --   -       -    --     --
I.l -                          -     --     -    -       --                        1,4
1iuruaåni i                          -      --                  i-n  Il l    n    1I11
lipur . N-                            --     --                              I      l
case             23   <· SS    3    u.e-l  .            SI,   I3     -a    u
orc o2                  ii.i.I  --     --    t3                i' *-4  15   '.17
10'.ombque              --     --    --      -    -  -      -
hIa:nma,r                -       --   --     --                   I   I.1i     I   1111
N um'   -      --   --                             1.11;
cp l                             '     I                        3 2i i               I'
elherL.nd-              ,s    I 63        .II     2. 4.~       lII              i i2  2 2..
e.  ZealanJ              III   I  24   2    11411       u  Il   15    I 411  311   1.33
Is  r.,gu.                          --     --   -      --         1)11u nI i     l
etr                     -       --   -       -     I-
nIl .II                     -      - --              411os        4      .45
Ir.e                    1.14    I    '. 21.  2   1134    14    I 3'    22   11.24
< manr                    I    'i'.2  --     --    --     -     I    '''1    2    iii'
Pa ia                   nl    --     -      I   i' I" -  I   Iau 41   -    I' 1
P.,namå                   'i     24     -  -        2    Il 34   21   i.'.,    a  34
P.ipua Ne. Gu.inen - -- - - -- --
P lg                I    'i.u2   T            2   1.34    I   u1u3     4    11.u
Peu2                      i -  -     --            ,     13   I  -    15   Il 1
fll'f'./


﻿86    World Bank Finances
Table 4-8 (continued)
All other       Total
Equipment     Civil works  Consultants     goods       disbursements
Supplying country        Amount   %    Amount   %   Amount    %   Amount    %   Amount    %
Philippines                  t            4     0.81    3    0.51     4    0.11     12    0.13
Poland                       7    0.17    3     0.61   t1            24    0.63    34     0.38
Portugal                     5    0.12    1     0.20    7     1.20     5   0.13     18    0.20
Qatar                        3    0.07    2     0.40   -       -       6   0.16    10     0,11
Romania                      8    0.19    1     0.20            *      2   0.05     10    0.11
Rwanda                                   -       -     -       -     -       -
Saudi Arabia                 2    0.05   -       -     t            110   2.91    112    1.24
Senegal                      3    0.07    t       *     t       *      4   0.11     8     0.09
Singapore                   69    1.65    2     0.40    6     1.03    66    1.75  143     1.58
Somalia                     -      -      IT            t              1   0.03      1    0.01
South Africa                15    0.36    1     0.20    2    0.34     53    1.40    71    0.79
Spain                       37    0.89   26     5.25    4     0.68    41    1.08  108     1.19
Sri Lanka                           *    -       -      1       *      t      *      1    0.01
St. Kitts and Nevis         -      -      t       *    -       -                     t *    *
St. Lucia                    f      *     1     0.20    f       *      t             1    0.01
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines                -      -                                   1-  -  0.03   2    0.02
Sudan                       -      -     -       -                      *  I  0.03  1    0.01
Suriname                     t       *   -       -              *            -       t      *
Swaziland                    t      *             *             *     3    0.08     4     0.04
Sweden                      44    1.05    1     0.20    3    0.51     24   0.63     72    0.80
Switzerland                126    3.02    4     0.81   14     2.39   200   5.29   345     3.82
Syrian Arab Republic        -      -             -      t       *     14   0.37    14     0.15
Tanzania                     1    0.02    f       *             *      2   0.05      3    0.03
Thailand                     9    0.22    t       *             *     20   0.53     29    0.32
Togo                         t      *     1     0.20    t       *      3   0.08      4    0.04
Tonga                               *    -       -     -       -      -      -       t
Trinidad and Tobago                  *   -       -     -       -       5   0.13      5    0.06
Tunisia                      1    0.02   -       -      1    0.17      9    0.24    11    0.12
Turkey                      18    0.43    t       *             *     43    1.14    61    0.67
Uganda                       t      *                                  1 *  *  1  0.03  1  0.01
United Arab Emirates         2    0.05   -       -     -       -      65    1.72   68     0.75
United Kingdom'            330    7.90    5     1.01  107    18.29  255    6.75   697     7.71
United States              717   17.16   13    2.63   106    18.12  487    12.88  1,324  14.65
Uruguay                      2    0.05   -       -      T       *     4    0.11     7     0.08
Vanuatu                     -      -      7,      *    -                      *      I      *
Venezuela                    3    0.07   -       -              *     80   2.12    83     0.92
Viet Nam                     t       *    t       *    -       -       2   0.05      3    0.03
Western Samoa               -      -      1       *     ?       *     -      -       1      *
Yemen, Republic of          -      -     -       -     -       -       1      *      t
Yugoslavia                  61    1.46   15     3.03    t             4    0.11     81    0.90
Zaire                        1    0.02   -       -      t       *      2   0.05      3    0.03
Zambia                       1    0.02    1     0.20                   1 *  I  0.03  3    0.03
Zimbabwe                    12    0.29    1     0.20    t       *     9    0.24    21     0.23
-Other                      21    0.50    1       *    21    3.59    46     1.22   87     0.96
-  !.,r..  ,  .,  iir , 4  m ir,-  Ic,- rhi,  P1rP, p r-,Cr
D--.~  ).l--,i .icili . i..r ock,  nd,c'C*  l. n.:F i. it.-~ fi-, .e. r jls . ir'c  1-i.iikd or IBiRD,.md  iD) I  Deu,il. mi, . oi


﻿Disbursements, by Source of Supply  87
Table 4-9. IBRD and IDA Foreign Dishursements, by Description of Goods,
Fiscal 1990-92
1990                   1991                    1992
em               -@ECD  N.onr ECD  Ti.l  ti'. 1)  None 11E.D  1o I .1  1,-cD  p'r'E¯D  T..,
lli ii. 'i  .- t L  u  *l'.0 
Agrc-ulur.l inpub   222 25               I 4              224   I I     4        lh
C01 il v.rks                                                        it6     - 10,
Cons l ri,         14        2      16     14       *       22    il 3-            l
Equipmeni          [.Uhrl Oc- k      2--   9               I Is s(        2a      1 s
R "  mll ri4lC     I.4ii     'a     2.2-s  1 23     '2     2 011  I 223   l.2s     2 42
Al othr geOdw       3~      23-, 405       5"6      2"'     s54    4~     25       ~
A\ riultiir.I  inpu s  "4           lh   'v        4~            5               I lu
ti- .ork.           lib      "3      4Sw   >h       13       3%    [24     lIh       Vi
Co,nsulan , I 3                   '5 l4' 6-              54'  446 -
EIuipment          2.541     424    2       --4  2 '4  422                 ;46 25>'  [96  2.425
Räw  maler< lI'      5        21      'h5                    144     ''     25       ¯
Al enther ..;ood,   l50      lu<     2:1   I                2 I    143 5          l'n
Toa1            3.r'.s     l,   4 45< t -   x1t9      j5.,,.  3  <4   "-th   4  3rIu
. nsi u li ura  in1u1 .lt -i       '1 11.                       'ti ll 2uu  >6. l
Ciil ..rk,       2r       1~'3           't, 'ihr.h 3"   42    3        16 4k45
Con;ulftari,        52h       h-       1    4%       on Å'v  'nh             ~~1-
Eqtupmeri         3 ( h 1   C.4 1  4 241  x.hut   h,s     4..54  3.4 is   hhtl    4.1 ¯
R.t materal.'     1         xsu    2.345  1 AV     sY'    2 154  I.2'3   D. '     2.56i
All erer unleld,     5     332 h"         IlIP    30 ~1 o-     n I4      '14     '34
Agr1.aullural mrputs  SI     14       4    h"       1;              ii~     l
, work                                          34             r Os s   2        5
con,.ul[.lnr        S        Il                      2      0      ~                h
Equiprnent            i       IS      4,     4       I       4 9    4      l b      4t
Rat. maler.,I        2       38      2"    il       34      24    5<1      mn       '8
\ll  ,Yher g. d,                     111 ;  la  h   34      l2    rh       34 l
~iiI               ¯        2.1    luu <1          25      lulu   "i      Du       0
Nt t D ..i;ur .meru.i.- fr Ichi rcjdu<u...r  nd <id .4. itni' Jud:ur s<r,tii.  ,rc  .iju&rt  .' 11RD  ,ri.d 1tD'  Der:a, u..  not i
addi-I10 ..u  ru.:au fl.' rIun.d,iuris c ii~j.l.4~uuu< <u.uuu.r,rIl r  n  '.  ,,, Hh,
u . CI  i% r .,1c  tv-al  rl  |  d   iriJ  uJ'.  "'I r uI.lJ- ad lii'i   4.".l. 12. [...-,  ,j i  nJ   h i ¡¡,. i-d 1 r i da  1,,  n -  H s khr-.d
l   -rn  upp,nr i poli, . nd  ,r ni Cun,-ruj  ib.cmTI,  in  ,p ci1.  ,.Ir i '  flrin :inc  h h  .. poI.  -knp'mp nni diuhdr.C.j  ..Iin-I
IP-pi ' ii  af " ' ur  C-i lerir   cc ru tii i ,t  ,illiirnc.  iri idi  1.  i.jl , %. if.  jri]  Cer.-1i1.1i,f[  wt- X .
Ílii Öl r.l Irc t iua d  a .. 't  unlls  J tu" J d 'ril..II *r',r.h.urj'1~  t: <ld~u.m nu~~u  r  h.  ~ rtuit
't,'. L"h<u  t.u- ahiu:u'.Jcu  h 'uuf  'I··.il .fi .iu it il '  cuu4nur ir   ur- hni  uu ,  uie.rClC JileCI'. fr ,c b .h  rge ! 9
ll, t  t idJ' fa l4  iiI. 1  i  C n n n E  w.T ind.  .   -a1     -.. .r . -In  m  -11 r  '1 eC .
achieve project goals. Disbursements are made  siderations generally guide the Bank's require-
primarily to cover specific costs for foreign  ments: the need for economy and efficiency in
procurement and some local expenditures.      the execution of the project; the Bank's inter-
The procurement rules and procedures to be  est, as a cooperative institution, in giving all
followed in the execution of each project de-  eligible bidders from developing countries and
pend on individual circumstances. Three con-  developed countries an opportunity to com-


﻿88   World Bank Finances
pete in providing goods and works financed by  the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
the Bank; and the Bank's interest, as a devel-  and Development (OECD) and those that are
opment institution, in encouraging the devel-  not for the IBRD and IDA separately.
opment of local contractors and manufacturers  Table 4-6 shows disbursements made in fis-
in borrowing countries.                    cal 1992 by the IBRD and IDA for local and
In most cases, international competitive bid-  foreign procurement from all active borrowing
ding is the most effective method of procure-  countries and disbursements made for goods,
ment. The Bank prescribes conditions under  works, and services procured from them by
which preferences may be given to domestic or  other Bank borrowers for projects funded by
regional manufacturers and, where appropri-  the Bank.
ate, to domestic contractors. Through the end  Table 4-7 shows the amounts disbursed from
of fiscal 1992, 58 percent of IBRD and IDA  the IBRD and IDA separately for foreign pro-
disbursements covered goods and services   curement of goods and services from member
provided directly by foreign suppliers located  countries in fiscal 1992 and cumulatively
outside the borrowing country. While most  through fiscal 1992.
foreign procurement comes from suppliers in  Table 4-8 shows the proportion of foreign
developed member countries, suppliers from  disbursements from the IBRD and IDA for
developing countries have increasingly been  specific categories of goods and services pro-
effective in winning contract awards. Through  vided by member countries in fiscal 1992.
the end of fiscal 1987, 12 percent of foreign  Table 4-9 provides a summary listing of the
procurement was awarded to developing-coun-  amounts paid to OECD and non-OECD coun-
try suppliers. During fiscal 1992, developing-  try suppliers in each fiscal year from 1990 to
country suppliers' share was 26 percent of total  1992. Amounts disbursed towards adjustment
foreign disbursements.                     and investment projects are compared with
Table 4-4 shows consolidated foreign and  respect to significant categories of goods pro-
local disbursements for the IBRD and IDA,  cured from foreign suppliers. The extent to
through the end of fiscal 1987 and for each of  which OECD and non-OECD countries partic-
the next five fiscal years to the end of fiscal  ipated in supplying these major categories of
1992. Advance disbursements consist of pay-  goods in each of the past three fiscal years is
ments made into special accounts of borrow-  also compared.
ers, from which funds are paid to specific   In all these tables. IBRD figures exclude
suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Be-  disbursements on loans to the IFC and "B"
cause balances in these accounts cannot be  loans. IDA figures include Special Fund and
attributed to any specific supplying country  Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa credits.
until expenditures have been reported to the  Disbursements of Project Preparation Facility
Bank, these are shown as a separate category  advances are excluded for the IBRD and IDA.
in the table.
Table 4-5 provides details of foreign dis-
bursements by countries that are members of


﻿89
Section Five
World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA and ICSID
Operations Evaluation                      delivered 276 completion reports in fiscal 1992;
the OED reviewed and sent to the executive
Operations evaluation in the World Bank  board 303 completion reports (including some
provides a systematic, comprehensive, and  received in fiscal 1991), and audited 135 oper-
independent assessment of Bank operations  ations, of which 107 were investment projects
and activities. Its principal goals are to account  and 28 were adjustment operations. The cumu-
for the outcome of Bank-supported projects  lative total of Bank operations subjected to ex
and programs and to use the lessons from that  post evaluation reached 3,056 at the end of the
experience to improve the design and conduct  fiscal year.
of future operations.                        The OED structures its audit work program
The director general, operations evaluation  (with regard to choice of projects, topics to be
(DGO), has overall responsibility for evalua-  analyzed, and analytical approaches to be
tion. He reports directly to the Bank's execu-  used) so as to provide inputs for comparative
tive board, with an administrative link to the  studies. It continues to audit operations in
president, and is supported by the Operations  clusters-for example, on a series of rural-
Evaluation Department (OED). The constitu-  development projects within one country, or
tional independence and high institutional  on comparable energy-development projects
ranking of the OED encourage evaluation staff  across countries. Clustering allows more
to report candidly and allow them to have  broadly based conclusions to be drawn, with
access to all relevant information, as well as to  wider applicability for future operations.
select any topic for analysis.               Studies. To carry out its mandate, the OED
The Joint Audit Committee (JAC) of the   must evaluate the Bank's policies and their
executive board oversees the work of the OED.  appropriateness, procedures and their integrity,
In fiscal 1992, as in the past, the findings and  processes and their adherence to established
recommendations of the JAC were reviewed by  rules, and effectiveness in promoting lasting
the full board, as were the fiscal 1991 annual  development in the Bank's borrower countries.
report of the DGO and the department's annual  In designing its studies program, the OED
review of evaluation results for 1990.     focuses on those topics for which its indepen-
The Bank's evaluation work program in-   dence, institutional memory, or time perspec-
cludes completion reports by operations staff;  tive give it a comparative advantage. Its most
selective performance audit reports and impact  basic criterion is that of relevance to the con-
evaluation reports on individual operations by  cerns of the Bank's board, management, and
the OED; and evaluation studies by the OED,  staff.
including country and sector-lending studies  In fiscal 1992, the OED sent twelve studies
and reviews of Bank policies and processes.  to the board. Topics were the environmental
The OED also works to bring borrowers more  effect of Bank-supported projects in Brazil;
closely into the evaluation process and to help  natural-resource issues in Nepal; experience
them strengthen their evaluation capacity.  with macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment,
Completion reports. Completion reports are  including a review of public-enterprise reforms
prepared by the Bank's operational staff on all  under Bank-supported adjustment operations;
lending operations at the time the Bank com-  lending for urban water supply and sanitation;
pletes its disbursements. The OED reviews all  lending for natural-gas development; develop-
completion reports to ensure their quality and  ment in Pacific island economies; agricultural
facilitate the transfer of experience to new  higher education; maintenance of rural roads;
operations, and then forwards these reports to  the management of rural development in
the board.                                 Northeast Brazil; the Bank's supervision of its
Audits. The OED audits all adjustment op-  loans in progress; support of industrialization
erations and at least 40 percent of the Bank's  in newly industrializing countries; and Bank
investment operations. The operational staff  lending for population programs.


﻿90   Wod Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and LCSID
Subjects of ongoing studies included the  gional departments and resident offices pro-
environmental, economic, and social effect of  vided support. Activities included: organizing
resettlement resulting from Bank energy and  seminars and training workshops for borrow-
agriculture projects, and the Bank's contribu-  ers on methodology and evaluation experi-
tions to development in Mexico. Other topics  ence; fostering borrowers' monitoring and
of special concern, particularly poverty reduc-  evaluation systems; and joint work with bor-
tion, women in development, and issues in  rowers on impact evaluations and evaluation
privatization, continued to be addressed in  studies.
various studies across sectors and regions.  Other activities. Evaluation staff also con-
Studies published in fiscal 1992 were: For-  tributed to a joint review, with the Bank's
estry: The World Bank's Experience (October  management, of methods for the economic
1991); World Bank Support for Industrializa-  analysis of projects: recommendations were
tion in India, Indonesia, and Korea (March  issued to help provide reliable and comparable
1992); Population and the World Bank (May  statements of expectations and judgments of
1992); Evaluation Results for 1990 (May 1992);  performance at different points in the project
and World Bank Support for Trade Reform    cycle.
(June 1992).                                 The OED participated as an observer in
Dissemination of findings. The Bank's op- meetings of the DAC Expert Group. Evalua-
erational guidelines require staff to seek out  tion staff attended workshops and seminars
evaluation findings and apply them in new  with evaluators from other international orga-
operations. In fiscal 1992, the OED continued  nizations and donor countries to compare work
to help operational staff to develop better  programs and discuss possibilities for cooper-
procedures and information bases for this pur-  ation. They continued to participate as "re-
pose and made its searchable textbase, con-  source persons' in EDI seminars.
taining summaries of evaluation reports, avail-
able desk-to-desk to all staff. Management  Internal Auditing
responses continued to be prepared on major  The Internal Auditing Department (IAD)
evaluation reports.                        acts as an independent appraiser that reviews
The OED presented the results of its audits  and evaluates Bank operations and activities.
and studies at seminars within and outside the  It is headed by an auditor general, who reports
Bank, including some organized by borrower  functionally to the president of the Bank and,
countries. It organized a three-day seminar in  since December 1991, administratively to the
Washington (December 1991), bringing to-   vice president and controller.
gether members of the OECD/DAC Expert        In response to requests from Bank manage-
Group on Aid Evaluation with evaluators from  ment during the year, the TAD conducted a
developing countries to discuss its recent eval-  number of special reviews of Bank activities,
uation findings and their implications for ac-  including reimbursable technical assistance,
tion.                                      the Energy Sector Management Assistance
The OED expanded its Pricis series, sum- Program, the Africa Capacity Building Foun-
marizing the findings of major audits and stud-  dation, and individual field offices. These re-
ies, and began to make copies available outside  views were in addition to the regular work
the Bank on request. It began issuing a French  program, which, while covering all aspects of
edition of the series late in the fiscal year.  the Bank's administration, continued to em-
The Evaluation Capability Development    phasize the Bank's operations and focused on
Program. Helping member countries to estab-  traditional topics such as procurement of
lish evaluation systems of their own is part of  goods and services and consultants, the dis-
the Bank's evaluation mandate. Through the  bursement process, and evaluation of proce-
Evaluation Capability Development Program  dures used to ensure proper accountability of
(ECDP), now in its sixth year, the OED assists  borrowers during project implementation. A
those developing member countries that are  review of the Global Environment Facility was
committed to strengthening their evaluation  also carried out. The department's work pro-
capacity. Activities are arranged in response to  gram was closely coordinated with reviews
the interests of individual countries, as part of  undertaken by the Bank's external auditors to
a general concern to strengthen public-sector  avoid a duplication of effort and maximize the
management. During fiscal 1992, the program  audit coverage.
attended to initiatives under way in Bang-   Reviews of Bank facilities were also under-
ladesh, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Indo-  taken, including the main complex rehabilita-
nesia, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Thailand,  tion project and the procedures for managing
and Zimbabwe. It also provided assistance to  the provision of office accommodation and
regional development banks. The Bank's re-  services.


﻿Economic Development Institute  91
Table 5-1. Distribution of EDI's Training Program and Participants. Fiscal 1992
inunher  11  1.. -I.  ii   .and  r..ili.:Ip.tni
Eur.p.  Middic  Loun  kicrin.,
~  'ii     V ~'rId  ~  AIFi~  -kE u     ..l  'i-. nd  .rx,r, ,!
rncultur I                              k1           I             3          14
Detelopment managmentcn                                                          1I 2
inagrce mnd  eduiri,               4 cotolisespr
Haiing  re   tepn     a c         env
Inrj~tiicuriI        '.     34                                  I l
N.,roo conomicp u                    4      4 and
T il1 4                     34     1        2 4            14
P sstem evlo11 aiudts foc      o    e44u
Tr,i -. i,e rr, ;d,& rl,  h.-,. n. ... el - ri-t . ior o o  i r., ,.or  %  1dL11  F-j.1  rid  N,,i   i .-  j nJ  m   E unq%  and  teny, ji
h f .Ic peciorne. s  anda-i ironn p(ofritlm.
The Bank relies on information technology  who received EDI-assisted training from part-
(IT) to support its business functions. In rec-  ner institutions). All but seven of the activities
ognition of this reliance, the department con-  were held outside Washington; ninety-seven
ducted a series of technical audits addressing  were held in developing countries, usually in
management, security, and control issues per-  collaboration with a local partner institution.
taming to the three principal computing envi-  Table 5-1 shows the regional distribution of
ronments within the Bank. The AD also un-   EDI's training by sector and number of partic-
dertook  computer-application  reviews and  ipants. In accordance with its strategic objec-
system-development audits, focusing on the  tives, about one third of EDI's training pro-
efficiency, effectiveness, and control of critical  grams during the year were targeted toward
applications.                                sub-Saharan Africa. This number understates
the share of EDI resources devoted to the
Economic Development Institute              region, as a large concentration of EDI's insti-
Fiscal 1992 was the third year of the Eco-  tution-strengthening efforts were also targeted
nomic Development Institute's (EDI's) five-  to sub-Saharan Africa. In Asia, EDI's China
year (1990-94) strategic plan. In terms of both  program declined as a consequence of reduced
sectoral and regional distribution of activities  United  Nations Development Programme
and emphasis on policy, EDI met the plan's  funding. For Asia as a whole, however, there
target for the year.                        were compensatory increases in activities, no-
The institute also dealt with several new  tably in Viet Nam and in the Pacific island
demands on its services. Foremost among     countries. The number of activities carried out
them was the vast need for training in the  in and for the countries of Central and Eastern
former Soviet Union. In addition, (a) a number  Europe rose sharply in response to the demand
of other countries either joined the Bank dur-  accompanying their transition from command
ing the year or sought to reactivate their bor-  to market economies. In addition, EDI imple-
rowing activities; (b) a demand for EDI to  mented eight activities in the former Soviet
provide training in project analysis reemerged;  Union that were financed by the Bank's Tech-
(c) EDI successfully introduced training pro-  nical Cooperation Agreement. Endeavors to
grams in areas such as women in development,  build a larger, more sustained training program
the role of nongovernmental organizations,  for the countries in the Middle East and in
poverty reduction, the environment, and civil-  Latin America, however, continued to suffer
service reform; and (d) the growing number of  from the relative lack of support on the part of
countries engaged in structural reforms in-  most cofinancing partners.
creased the demand for training of government  During the year EDI continued to meet its
officials involved in formulating and managing  substantive objectives. The shift in the strate-
these programs.                             gic direction of the program to policy-related
Training activities. During the year, EDI  training continued, particularly in the core
organized 117 courses and seminars, serving  areas of macroeconomic management and
nearly  3,000  participants (excluding  the  greater public-sector efficiency. Such training
roughly 4,500 indirectly served participants  accounted for more than 70 percent of all


﻿92   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
directly delivered activities during the year,  and Asia regions on an experimental basis to
compared with an average of 58 percent during  help the regions (a) design more effective proj-
the five-year period, fiscal 1985-89. In the area  ect-related training components and (b) work
of macroeconomic management, EDI's initial  with EDI partner institutions to help them
focus on structural adjustment, foreign debt,  deliver training for these components.
and trade widened to include sectoral-adjust-  Training materials. Building on the success
ment and policy issues such as the role of  of its publishing efforts, EDI has made a num-
public-sector institutions, private provision of  ber of modifications in its approach to the
public services, the enabling environment for  publication and dissemination of training ma-
private initiative, and the targeting of services  terials: First, EDI is producing a greater num-
to the poor.                               ber of shorter, more easily digestible materials
The content of EDI's training program also  in response to requests from participants; sec-
broadened to reflect the recent trend in devel-  ond, EDI is paying more attention to cost-
opment economics toward a cross-sectoral   effectiveness by designing training materials
perspective on the development process. EDI  with a view to their repeated use, both over
is systematically integrating four cross-sectoral  time and across seminars in different regions,
themes into its activities: poverty reduction,  with appropriate modifications. During the
the role of women in development, environ-  year, EDI published sixteen formal ("EDI
mental sustainability, and the facilitation of  series") and forty informal (working papers
private-sector initiative. These themes were  and collections) titles. A new series, EDI De-
addressed in freestanding activities, as well as  velopment Studies, was introduced, and three
in modules incorporated into activities on  titles were published.
other topics.                                Scholarship programs. EDI continued its
Institution building. Another EDI objective  management of two scholarship programs: the
is that of strengthening local training institu-  World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program
tions. One aspect of this focus is an increased  (WBGSP), now in its fifth year and funded by
emphasis on promoting the growth of national  the government of Japan, and the McNamara
and subregional networks of training institu-  Fellowships Program.
tions. Such networks have important multiplier  In an extension of the WBGSP, following a
effects and benefit from economies of scale.  process of competitive bidding, EDI invited
Thirteen such networks are now in operation,  Columbia University to design a new one-year
with others under development, notably in  master's degree program in economic manage-
Central and Eastern Europe.                ment, The program is aimed at staff of minis-
During fiscal 1992, EDI initiated a system-  tries of finance and planning, as well as of
atic evaluation of its institution-building efforts  central banks, in developing countries. After
that focuses on targeting, selectivity, longer-  completing their studies at Columbia, the stu-
term sustainability of assistance, and building  dents will serve a six-month internship at the
an adequate internal information system in  Bank or at another international institution,
partner institutions. As a result, EDI is placing  such as the International Monetary Fund or the
substantially more emphasis on the restructur-  Asian Development Bank. The first class of
ing of institutions, that is, strengthening inter-  twenty-five students began their studies in
nal management and improving the policy    June 1992.
framework, while continuing its faculty-devel-  Cofinancing. The  ED1 has consistently
opment efforts.                            been encouraged to expand its efforts to mobi-
EDI is also investigating ways to improve  lize support from cofinancing partners. Indeed,
the links between its institution-building activ-  cofinancing has permitted most of the expan-
ities and project-related training carried out  sion in EDI activities since fiscal 1984; it has
under Bank-assisted projects. To this end, EDI  been particularly important in the financing of
initiated a review that examined all projects  newer areas of work. During the year, the
approved by the executive board in fiscal 1985  sources of cofinancing, which totaled about
and fiscal 1991 in the agriculture and infra-  $11.5 million, continued to diversify. In fiscal
structure sectors in Africa and Asia. The re-  1984, multilateral agencies accounted for more
view investigated the nature and degree of  than 80 percent of the funding raised. By fiscal
involvement of local training institutions in  1992, their contribution, while expanding in
project-related training, the possibilities for  absolute terms, dropped tojust over 25 percent
enhancing this involvement, and the possibility  of the total.
of increasing EDI's role in the design of proj-  While cofinancing has a number of advan-
ect-related training and implementation.   tages (it helps to finance, as well as broaden
In a decision based on the report's findings,  the range of, EDI programs), dependence on
EDI is providing support to the Bank's Africa  external financing has raised a number of con-


﻿Research at the World Bank  93
cerns: Uncertainties about the availability of  issues, globally, regionally, and nationally. Re-
cofinancing lead to difficulties in fixing a firm  search is undertaken throughout the Bank but
training program; cofinancing partners' prefer-  is most concentrated in the Development Eco-
ences can lead to the relative neglect of certain  nomics and the Sector and Operations Policy
regions or subregions; the managerial and ad-  vice presidencies, which manage 90 percent of
ministrative cost to EDI can be significant,  the Bank's research. During fiscal year 1992,
especially with regard to smaller contributions;  the Bank devoted $24 million, including about
and despite generous increases in fiscal 1992,  150 staff years, to research.
EDI expects that few cofinancers will be able  Research projects are developed and re-
to increase their funding in the near future, and  viewed by departments, centrally, and with
some may even have to reduce their participa-  external donors. Departmental research is de-
tion. In this regard, concern was expressed by  signed into departmental work programs and
a number of the Bank's executive directors  supported by departmental funds (54 percent
that excessive reliance on external financing of  of the total). Centrally funded research
EDI's activities could lead to an erosion of the  projects (41 percent of the total) must pass peer
integrity of the institute's core program, espe-  review by Bank staff and external experts and
cially in those regions where funding from  consideration by the World Bank Research
donor agencies could be interrupted because of  Committee. Funds for the remaining projects
budgetary constraints.                     are provided by outside agencies and must be
During the past two years, EDI has initiated  approved by department directors and exter-
multiyear agreements with donors to support  nal-funding coordinators.
some of the institute's more important pro-  Research priorities are derived from the pro-
grams. In an attempt to expand the advantages  gram objectives determined by the Bank's sen-
of these multiyear agreements, EDI convened  ior management. During fiscal 1992, the areas
a first consultative group meeting in Paris in  of emphasis were poverty reduction; human-
February 1992. The meeting's objectives were  resource development; the environment, for-
to (a) permit donors to make a thorough review  estry, and natural resources; macroeconomic
of EDI's training program; (b) coordinate the  issues and management (adjustment, debt,
institute's activities more closely with the ac-  trade, finance, reform of the public sector, and
tivities of other donors; (c) increase awareness  private-sector development); and infrastruc-
of EDI's program in the international develop-  ture and urban development.
ment community; (d) obtain better regional   Poverty reduction. In response to the insta-
coverage by directing donors' attention to rel-  bility in the global economy and the need for
atively neglected areas; (e) involve other mul-  structural adjustment during the 1980s, public
tilateral agencies more systematically in the  goods, services, and employment were cut in
attainment of EDI's goals; and (f) raise addi-  many developing countries, and people most
tional resources.                          vulnerable to such reductions suffered. Much
Except for the failure to mobilize additional  of the Bank's research effort is devoted to
resources and funding for programs in the  investigating how to protect the poorest and
Middle East and in Latin America and the   most vulnerable groups during periods of eco-
Caribbean and to overcome donors' reluctance  nomic stagnation and instability.
to pool their contributions into a single EDI  A research project on adjustment, income
fund, the meeting's objectives were largely  distribution, and poverty is considering alter-
achieved.                                  native adjustment programs for six countries
relative to those actually adopted. The sustain-
Research at the World Bank                 ability and equity of the adjustment programs
The World Bank carries out research to   depend on the interaction among specific ele-
support its operational work and to respond to  ments of the programs and of the domestic
the most critical development issues facing its  political and economic environment. These
members. The objectives of its research pro-  interactions are particularly pressing in the
gram are to generate knowledge on the eco-  formerly socialist countries during their transi-
nomic, technical, program, and implementa-  tion to a market economy and were addressed
tion issues that are embodied in its lending,  in another study on poverty and income distri-
diagnostic, training, and technical-assistance  bution in Eastern Europe. To improve the
activities; to increase knowledge about devel-  design of poverty programs, an exploratory
opment; and to enhance the policy dialogue  conference examined cost-effective means of
with, and the research capabilities of, its mem-  targeting public expenditures to the poor, in-
ber countries.                             centive effects, and political constraints on
To respond to this broad mandate, the re-  programs intended solely or primarily to ben-
search program investigates a diverse range of  efit the poor.


﻿94   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
Most poor people in developing countries live  the Bank, research carried out in the Environ-
in rural areas; work on research devoted to  ment Department is focusing on adjustment
estimating the tradeoffs among agricultural effi-  and the environment, integrated land manage-
ciency, poverty alleviation, and the environment  ment, global environmental issues, and protec-
was undertaken in fiscal 1992. Meanwhile, re-  tion of biodiversity. One research project is
search on urban poverty is investigating the  investigating how  integrated land-resource
effects of deteriorating urban infrastructure and  management, reflecting the need for biological
changes in social-sector programs on the poor: it  conservation, can balance competing demands
identifies constraints on the productivity of the  from population growth, agricultural use, and
urban poor in the informal sector and proposes  timber use. Other biodiversity-related research
ways to relieve those constraints.         focuses on the financing and management of
Human-resource development. Labor in-     biodiversity efforts, the potential for buffer
come is the primary determinant of the eco-  zones in conservation  and  development
nomic status of the poor, and research on  projects, and rainforest conservation in Africa.
education, employment, and health seeks to   Natural resources. Environmental conser-
improve that status. One research project is  vation and ways to alleviate pollution were the
exploring the relative efficacy of private and  subject of several energy and agriculture-see-
public education systems, the mobilization and  tor studies that were undertaken during the
use of educational resources, and the diversi-  year. Research on energy-efficiency improve-
fication of educational channels with a view to  ments, fuel substitution, and atmospheric pol-
increasing private spending on education and  lution was carried out, and studies are under
training to augment public resources. Another  way on oil-price instability and environmental
project is evaluating ways to improve the com-  degradation. Research on oil refineries is
petitive operation of labor markets so that  examining the supply implications of develop-
movements in wages and employment can      ment and the adoption of sustainable technol-
guide public and private investment in educa-  ogies. Policies being examined in the electric-
tion and training expenditures.            power subsector include those related to
The use of public and private funds is a  regulation, rural energy, and coal use. Agricul-
central issue in public-health policy, which will  tural research included a study of water and
be investigated in a broad review, begun in  soil quality, which focused on ways to control
fiscal 1992, of the economics of the health  waterlogging and salinization. Environmental
sector. Studies are also examining methods for  issues were also addressed in a policy brief on
setting priorities in public health, the effects of  water-resource management and development;
adjustment on public-health expenditures, the  work on the links between different water-use
economic effects of adult deaths (including  activities and the environment is ongoing. An
from AIDS) in sub-Saharan Africa, and deter-  assessment of behavioral and technological
minants of nutrition and health. The determi-  constraints to the generation and adoption of
nants of fertility, and consistency between  agricultural technologies is also being under-
fertility intentions and family-planning serv-  taken, as is related work on agricultural bio-
ices, were also studied. Research on the intra-  technology. Research, based on analysis of the
household effects of poverty-reduction policies  links between farm and nonfarm (but rural)
and on productive services directed to women  sectors, on ways to increase the effect of agri-
found large efficiency losses from failure to  cultural and rural investment on growth was
account for gender in policy formulation.  also initiated. Institutional issues play a signifi-
The environment. World Development Re-   cant role in the growth and development of
port 1992 focuses on the links between eco-  agriculture, and studies on agricultural reform
nomic development and the environment. It  in countries that once had centrally planned
explores policies that have negative economic  economies address issues such as the privatiza-
and environmental results and provides evi-  tion of property, development of rural financial
dence on the positive economic and environ-  institutions, agricultural-price reforms, and pro-
mental returns to land titling for poor farmers,  vision of safety nets for vulnerable groups.
to improved water and sanitation systems, and  Macroeconomic issues and management.
to research and extension services. It also  The Bank's experience with adjustment pro-
analyzes those areas in which there are trade-  grams, debt-reduction strategies, and trade-
offs between growth and environmental pres-  liberalization policies is being reviewed and
ervation and demonstrates the need for careful  adapted for use in countries in transition from
and objective assessments of the relative costs  centrally planned economies. Research is ex-
and benefits of such policies.             ploring the microeconomics and macroeco-
In addition to the broad range of environ-  nomics of enterprise reform in Central and
mental research being conducted throughout  Eastern Europer the microeconomic aspects of


﻿Technical Assistance  95
ownership reform and foreign trade in Eastern  The wide range of issues addressed in the
Europe; industrial reform and productivity in  research program of the Bank is reflected in
China; legal reform in Central and Eastern  the agenda of the Annual Conference on De-
Europe; labor-market adjustment in Czecho-  velopment Economics. The series seeks to
slovakia and Yugoslavia; and reform in African  encourage fresh thinking and research on crit-
countries that once were socialist.        ical gaps in the understanding of the develop-
While many countries are reducing the role  ment process and to identify new areas that
of the state in their economies, the experience  merit attention. This year's conference fo-
of several East Asian countries has demon-  cused on four themes-theories of growth and
strated that governments can play a supportive  development, labor markets and development,
role in economic growth and development. A  technology, and international capital flows. In
major research program on this experience,  addition to the eleven papers presented, public
begun in fiscal 1992, will review the growth  responsibility for health care was the subject of
process, describe the strategic approaches  a roundtable discussion. The full set of papers,
used by the governments, evaluate the extent  with comments by the discussants, the keynote
to which the rates and patterns of growth are  speech, and a summary of the roundtable dis-
attributable to public policy, and assess the  cussion on public health, will be published
implications for replication in other developing  soon in the Proceedings of the World Bank
countries. The study will evaluate three areas  Annual Conference on Development Econom-
in which market failures may require govern-  ics, 1992.
ment intervention: in generating desired levels
of savings, in sharing risk, and in using and  Technical Assistance
investing in information.                    In fiscal 1992, the Bank's technical-assis-
Another research project, undertaken in  tance operations were reviewed and analyzed
cooperation with the International Monetary  with a view to drawing lessons so as to make
Fund, is reviewing how the most severely   future work more effective. The review was
indebted countries have been affected by the  prompted by two recent developments-the
implementation of the debt strategy (the Brady  significant increase in the volume of technical
initiative). Domestic financial issues are being  assistance involving the Bank as financer, pro-
addressed in studies of the effects of financial  vider, and administrator and the increasingly
reforms and in a book on international experi-  active role that the Bank has played-in
ence in the restructuring of financial institu-  response to economic-reform programs in hor-
tions. The role of foreign direct investment in  rowing countries-in providing technical assis-
technology transfer and the related issue of  tance in areas such as policy reform, in-
protection of intellectual property rights are  stitutional development, and capacity building.
also being analyzed.                         In responding to these developments, the
Further research was undertaken on the   president of the Bank appointed a task force to
lessons of experience with alternative trade  take stock of the Bank's changing technical-
strategies. Regional trade arrangements have  assistance role and suggest ways to improve its
emerged as potential alternatives to interna-  developmental impact. In particular, the task
tionat agreements, and research studies are  force was asked to consider: (a) how best to
focusing on the North American Free Trade  organize and fund the Bank's technical-assis-
Agreement, specifically, as well as assessing,  tance activities and (b) how best to coordinate
more generally, the prospects and problems of  the Bank's technical-assistance efforts with
regional strategies. The effects of trade restric-  those of other agencies and donors.
tions adopted in reaction to environmental   The task force recommended that the Bank's
issues have been analyzed; evidence from the  management of technical-assistance activities
study shows clearly that such action produces  be improved, that aid coordination of technical
high economic costs and relatively limited en-  assistance (particularly with the United Na-
vironmental benefits.                      tions Development Programme (UNDP)) be
Infrastructure and urban development. Reg-  strengthened, and that a technical-assistance
ulatory reforms have been widely adopted in  grant facility-the Institutional Development
order to increase efficiency and industrial pro-  Fund (IDF)-be created.
ductivity. Research during fiscal 1992 analyzed  An institutional action plan, based on the
industrial regulatory reform and infrastructure  report's recommendations, has been designed
bottlenecks and their effects on industrial pro-  to address these three concerns. It provides
ductivity. Land-use regulation and residential  measures to (a) inject systematic consideration
development are also being reviewed, and a  of technical-assistance requirements into coun-
survey and analysis of housing indicators for  try strategies; (b) strengthen institutional-de-
development policy were initiated.         velopment expertise in Bank skills; and (c) give


﻿96   Worid Bank Actvities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
increased attention to the rigorous manage-  A substantial amount of the technical assis-
ment of technical assistance.             tance provided through the administrative bud-
A technical-assistance handbook is being  get is embedded in the Bank's regular lending
prepared. Along with training programs, it will  and nonlending services, the magnitude of
help ensure beneficiary involvement in the  which is difficult to quantify. These services
design of technical assistance and will improve  are inextricably linked to the Bank's economic
the effectiveness of technical-assistance imple-  and sector work, to loan preparation and su-
mentation and monitoring. The research pro-  pervision, to aid coordination, and to the infor-
gram is also being adjusted to deal with issues  mal advice the Bank gives to borrowers on
such as capacity building and institutional de-  policy or technical matters.
velopment.                                  The volume of technical assistance in these
To help improve aid coordination, the Bank  three categories has grown considerably in
and the UNDP agreed that the principles of  recent years, and, in calendar year 1991, it
cooperation between the two organizations  reached about $2.3 billion. Technical-assis-
would be revisited under the aegis of the  tance components in Bank loans and credits
UNDP/Bank High Level Task Force; that     accounted for the lion's share of the total,
cooperation would be strengthened in the area  some $1.8 billion. Technical assistance pro-
of aid coordination for technical assistance;  vided through the administrative budget to-
and that the Bank would join forces with the  taled about $45 million in calendar 1991. (This
UNDP in building local capacity for technical-  amount, however, does not include embedded
assistance management, using the UNDP-    technical assistance provided by the Bank as
sponsored National Technical Cooperation As-  part of its regular lending and nonlending serv-
sessment and Programmes approach, and     ices.) Disbursements for technical assistance
adapting it to individual country requirements.  from trust funds administered by the Bank,
In June 1992, the Bank's board of executive  together with reimbursable programs, totaled
directors approved the establishment of the  $228 million.
IDF and provided it with an initial fund of $25  In calendar 1991, project-financed technical
million, to be used during its first year of  assistance totaled $2.0 billion ($1.8 billion for
operation. The fund was scheduled to become  components in Bank loans and credits, and
operational at the beginning of fiscal year 1993.  $0.2 billion for freestanding projects). This
The IDF will provide a quick-response instru-  amount represented an increase of 25 percent
ment for funding   small, action-oriented  over the previous year; as a proportion of Bank
schemes identified during (and closely linked  lending, however, technical assistance grew
to) the Bank's economic and sector work and  only by one percentage point to 8 percent. PPF
policy dialogue in low-income and middle-  advances, which are refinanced by subsequent
income countries.                         Bank loans and credits, totaled $72 million,
The Bank's technical-assistance activities  compared with $66 million the year before.
fall into three primary categories:         Technical-assistance components financed
* technical assistance financed as compo-  by the Bank are increasingly becoming more
nents of Bank loans and credits, freestanding  concentrated on training and advisory services
technical-assistance loans and credits, and  for institutional-development objectives, and
technical assistance financed through the Proj-  are less focused on engineering-related tasks.
ect Preparation Facility (PPF);           An example of one such project approved in
* technical assistance administered but not  calendar 1991 was the National Agriculture
financed by the Bank (such as UNDP projects  Research Project in Nigeria. The $13.6 million
for which the Bank serves as executing agency  Bank-financed training component will provide
or Bank-administered projects that are fi-  short-term training, as well as long-term degree
nanced through other trust funds). Other tech-  programs for management, scientific staff, and
nical assistance in this category includes the  technicians. Another such project is the Indo-
reimbursable technical-assistance program to  nesia Second Higher Education Development
high-income, oil-exporting developing coun-  Project, which is financing an overseas-train-
tries of the Middle East and to the Interna-  ing program for the development of university
tional Fund for Agricultural Development; and  staff. The Bank-financed $68 million training
* technical assistance provided through the  program includes fellowships for master's and
administrative budget, which includes the  doctoral degrees in basic science, science ed-
work of the Economic Development Institute,  ucation, and engineering. Examples of projects
and technical assistance provided as part of the  with managerial or financial-advisory services
cooperative program with the Food and Agri-  components include the Financial Institutions
culture Organization of the U.N. and other  Development Project (Poland) and the Decen-
programs.                                 tralization and Regional Development Project


﻿Interagency Cooperation  97
(Mexico). The project for Poland provides  tance by the Bank to the four republics during
more than $23 million in consulting services  the transitional period before Bank member-
through "twinning" arrangements between    ship took effect. The work program included
foreign and Polish banks to develop and carry  four main elements: support for systemic re-
out programs for strengthening the institutional  forms, designed to facilitate the transition of
capacity of the Polish banks concerned. The  individual republics to market-based econo-
institutional-development component of the  mies and their integration into the world econ-
Decentralization and Regional Development  omy; support for specific reforms in agricul-
Project provides technical assistance in man-  ture, energy, transport, and other sectors; the
agement-related areas that is aimed at strength-  design of social safety-net arrangements to
ening project-executing agencies mainly in the  protect vulnerable groups in the transition to
agricultural and roads sectors, as well as state  market-based economies and support for im-
and municipal entities.                    proved basic services; and training programs
In calendar 1991, sixteen freestanding techni-  and institutional reforms.
cal-assistance projects were approved for a  At the end of fiscal 1992, new commitments
total of $241 million. Among these were the first  against the trust fund were terminated, and
technical-assistance operations in Bulgaria,  about $1.7 million in uncommitted funds were
Angola, and Mongolia. The $17 million techni-  returned to the Bank's surplus account.
cal-assistance loan to Bulgaria will finance mul-
tisectoral activities in support of the govern-  Interagency Cooperation
ment's  economic-reform  program. These      At its forty-fifth session, the United Nations
activities include private-sector development,  General Assembly adopted a (fourth) Interna-
bank restructuring and reform, human-resource  tional Development Strategy (IDS), to be car-
development, energy-sector strategy reforms,  red out in the remaining years of the current
and institutional development in the areas of  decade. The main ingredients of the IDS are
trade, debt strategy, and statistics. In Angola,  poverty reduction, development of human re-
the $23 million Economic Management Capac-  sources, and  environmentally  sustainable
ity Building Project seeks to strengthen the  growth. The IDS serves to prioritize the ex-
government's ability to formulate and imple-  panding assistance activities of the United Na-
ment sound economic policies and investment  tions system and strengthen its supportive role
projects by providing technical assistance and  in international development cooperation.
training for human-resource development, eco-  World Bank programs and policy directions
nomic statistics, legal assistance, public-re-  are closely in line with the broad development
source management, and liberalization policies.  themes of the IDS.
In Mongolia, a $5 million technical-assistance  The IDS also underscores the growing inter-
project will help the country develop institu-  national commitment to sustainable develop-
tional capacity for macroeconomic management  ment. Given their resource and poverty con-
in a market economy and define strategies for  straints, however, developing countries face
sectors and subsectors key to the country's  difficult tradeoffs in implementing environ-
economic development.                      mental policies. The Bank continues to play an
As of December 31, 1991, a total of 183  important role in the international effort to help
UNDP projects, valued at $356 million, were  developing countries integrate such policies in
being executed by the Bank. Among the newly  national development strategies, thus strength-
approved projects were the African Capacity  ening the link between environment and devel-
Building Initiative-Management Team Re-    opment. Increasingly, the Bank is expanding
gional Project ($9.8 million) and two global  its cooperation with other concerned multilat-
agriculture projects: Development of Efficient  eral institutions, in particular, the United Na-
Tsetse and Tick Control Strategy for the Trop-  tions Environment Programme (UNEP) and
ical World and Development of Sustainable  the United Nations Development Programme
Rice Production Systems ($6.2 million and $8.3  (UNDP), on international initiatives such as
million, respectively).                    the implementation of the funding mechanism
In August 1991, the executive directors of  of the Montreal Protocol and the Global Envi-
the Bank approved the transfer of $30 million  ronment Facility.
from fiscal 1991 surplus to finance technical  The Bank's recent operational directive
assistance, on a grant basis, in the Union of  (OD) on poverty reduction provides guidance
Soviet Socialist Republics and its constituent  on many aspects of collaborative work in this
republics. Four republics-Belarus, Kaza-   area. The OD encourages the involvement of
khstan, Kyrghyzstan, and Russia-eventually  development-assistance agencies in preparing
signed the agreement. The $30 million fund  poverty assessments and urges Bank staff to
was used to finance the cost of technical assis-  work closely with other U.N. agencies in pre-


﻿98   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
paring proposals to improve the quality of  and the generation of improved incomes and
poverty-related data. At the country level, the  training in employable skills in construction
Bank is broadening its efforts to coordinate  and related fields. Existing analytical and insti-
work with the UNDP, the United Nations    tutional frameworks in most developing coun-
Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the Inter-  tries need to be strengthened to monitor the
national Fund for Agricultural Development  performance of the housing sector. To remedy
(IFAD) in specific countries on the prepa-  this situation, Habitat, in collaboration with
ration or follow-up to poverty assessments  the Bank and other donors, is implementing a
and forthcoming human-development assess-  Housing Indicators Programme to provide gov-
ments.                                    ernments with an analytical tool for measuring
Coordination between the Bank and the   the performance of the housing sector. The
U.N. system on poverty at the project level is  joint Habitat/UNDP/World Bank Urban Man-
extensive, particularly in the design of social  agement Programme (UMP) aims at improving
funds and social-action programs. For exam-  the performance of local governments. The
ple, the Bank, the UNDP, UNICEF, the      UMP is a concerted global effort to address
World Health Organization (WHO), the Inter-  urban-management issues in developing coun-
national Labour Organisation (ILO), the Food  tries, to build human-resource capacity, and to
and Agriculture Organization of the U.N.  strengthen developing-country institutions.
(FAO), and the World Food Programme         Relations with nongovernmental organiza-
(WFP) worked together to design and cofi-  tions. The Bank continues to foster cooper-
nance Madagascar's Economic Management    ation with nongovernmental organizations
and Social Action Program.                (NGOs) worldwide. The Bank believes that
To strengthen its knowledge and information  NGOs have an important role in helping bor-
base on poverty reduction, the Bank coordi-  rowers reduce poverty and achieve environ-
nates policy-analysis work with other agencies  mentally sustainable economic growth. Non-
of the U.N. system. For example, the UNDP  governmental organizations can help improve
and the Bank are collaborating on the Water  the standard of living of the poor through the
and Sanitation Program, which aims at devel-  projects they support and through representa-
oping strategies for reaching the poor through  tion to governments on behalf of citizens'
community-based institutional models and  interests. They can also help to enhance the
low-cost technologies. In the area of social-  social and environmental aspects of govern-
science research, the UNDP is financing a  ment-sponsored projects and to promote the
Bank study on "Urban Poverty and Social   participation of affected groups in develop-
Policy in the Context of Adjustment." The  ment planning.
Bank serves as the executive secretariat for the  Since fiscal 1988, when the Bank began a
Safe Motherhood Inter-Agency Group (WHO,  systematic effort to expand NGO involvement
the United Nations Fund for Population Activ-  in the operations it helps finance, the number
ities (UNFPA), the UNDP, UNICEF, the Pop-  of Bank-supported projects with NGO associ-
ulation Council, and the International Planned  ation has increased threefold. Sixty-six of the
Parenthood Federation), which supports ana-  222 projects approved by the Bank's executive
lytical work on safe-motherhood issues. In the  directors in fiscal 1992 involved NGOs. As in
energy sector, the Bank-UNDP Energy Sector  the past, the Africa region had the largest
Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) in-  number, and greatest share, of NGO-associ-
cludes a household-energy component for the  ated projects (see Table 5-2). Nongovernmen-
poor.                                     tal organizations were involved most heavily in
The Bank continued to be an active partner  the agriculture and rural development; envi-
in ongoing interagency efforts in education,  ronmental- and population, health, and nutri-
population, health, and nutrition; and women  tion sectors (see Table 5-3).
in development. Activities include the fol-  The past few years have seen increased
low-up to the World Conference on Education  collaboration  by  the  Bank  with local
for All and the World Summit for Children; the  NGOs-indigenous intermediary NGOs such
Safe Motherhood Inter-Agency Group; the On-  as church groups, professional societies, and
chocerciasis (riverblindness) Control Pro-  national NGO consortia, as well as grassroots
gramme; the Global Programme for AIDS; and  groups, such as water-users' associations, wo-
the Task Force for Child Survival.        men's groups, village committees, and cooper-
The Bank continued to support the activities  atives. Of the sixty-six  NGO-associated
of the United Nations Centre for Human Set-  projects approved in fiscal 1992, 48 percent
tlements (Habitat). Habitat's Global Strategy  involved indigenous intermediary NGOs, 28
for Shelter aims at providing opportunities to  percent grassroots groups, and 24 percent in-
the poor through the creation of employment  ternational NGOs. International NGOs have


﻿Interagency Cooperation  99
Table 5-2. Regional and Sectoral Patterns in World Bank-NGO Operational
Collaboration. Fiscal 1974-92
B,   LL-11inurnte  d  pai~ic,ii
-\fi                   40 ~   i    23. ~       41    4-    111   4r.  234
E,.Y    and  Pa:ific           2      Ii.1  h.   12    1     L            4     1    II
S.mith  A,ij                    12    13   11    23    It.   1     '     14    h5   l
Europt And  Central .\I        3     I     I    Io    3     3    3      -1    ,     2
Latin .\rncncj nd rhe Cantbban  3              1     13     5    12    I       I   it
Middle  LEt ind  Norrh  1trica  IF   n     II   II          '     .     4    214
l  ot.Il                         11 I  4.1   11111  N'_  I ttI   .h  Itill  4.;  inal
B   .i ,.r Inunihr of rroliecti
Adiu,iment related                    3          13    14    I h         11    34     S
ArICuIiure rural deveiopmrl  IIVr1            -    21     24   21     32   1      3-
[.d L14n                    25    it    b,    2    |Ii   |     F.   '-    4      III
i-n% ronment                    -     2           i-i   S     0    III I     22      5
Industr c erei                24     .     I     2    III   II    F. 4       41     '
Intraitructurv urtan de%eiopment  4-           N -4  12   1            .4  r'q    lI
PUpIl.t.i n  healtr  and  nutration  14  1 1  LI  1   4    lF, 4       12 .5      14
Relicit                         -4    2     to    ii    2     2    2      3     $     2
To  l                            Il1i1 -S Il        N    11111  f.h  11I1I  45"  Hi
Table 5-3. NGO-associated Projects by Sector. Fiscal 1992
Plu... kr                      n  .h.rb          Pr sc l-I it
(e.11 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   l ...al*..1  h*  ivl.IB,*rl
L I1L*r                                I nflu lI P                               .1: 1rel -
all-l*jIv enterriec                     I                  I                    I
Avriculiure and rUrai de%cipncni         .
P  IpuLaion  r.e.ltih  and  nuirillun I                                          t.
t later suppit  -nd   e%is rag              5. .                                   11
Ed uc a ,n                               f-                    '                  h
Non prol et                                 4                    a                 'ai
Erner*,                                     4
r .ran dc' eclopmeni                                           1I                  I
T rin! poriainon                            I17
IeLhni:a1 j la urice                       Ia                   II               I
De. loprnleni finonLe  -rapanie,            II                   II                 -
Ir.Justr'.                                  II                   .5
Public-welor managerer[                  II                    I                  4
Telecomrnmunicall,.r.,                                          a1
strongly endorsed this trend, as they regard  has been conceived as the first phase of a
devolution of responsibility to local groups as  longer-term effort to reduce poverty and pro-
being an effective way to help build local    mote socioeconomic development in selected
people's capacity to manage and improve their  rural areas of the country. The objectives of
own lives.                                    the project include: (a) increasing the living
The Bank-supported Rural Development        standards of small-scale farmers and the pro-
Project in Ecuador-approved in fiscal 1992-   ductivity of the rural sector, (b) improving
illustrates the Bank's stepped-up efforts to  rural infrastructure and reducing the risk of
involve local NGOs in its projects. The project  flooding, (c) promoting better use and conser-


﻿100   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
vation of natural resources, and (d) enhancing  constructive dialogue, the Bank and NGOs can
institutional capacity for planning and imple-  learn from each other and, together, can work
menting rural-development activities. Nongov-  at helping the Bank's borrowers address the
ernmental organizations are involved in nearly  root causes of poverty and environmental deg-
every component of the project.            radation.
To ensure the sustainability of benefits, the  Because last year's NGO consultation on the
project also seeks to promote grassroots in-  Bank's draft forest-policy paper proved so
volvement of rural communities and groups of  successful, the Bank organized, in May 1992,
beneficiaries (giving special emphasis to rural  two consultations to facilitate NGO input into
women) and to strengthen beneficiary organiza-  ongoing reviews of Bank policy. These were in
tions and local NGOs. For example, training  the areas of energy conservation and power
will be provided to numerous existing and new  and water-resource management. In recogni-
farmers' organizations (groups of between  tion of their experience and expertise in work-
twelve and forty members), including produc-  ing with the poor, over 100 NGOs worldwide
ers' groups, marketing groups, special women's  were invited to comment on the draft Poverty
groups, water-users' associations, coopera-  Reduction Handbook, which the Bank issued
tives, and others, both formal and informal. The  in final form in May 1992. Nongovernmental
project also provides for the legal establishment  organizations also contributed to the draft
of farmers' organizations, water-users' associa-  World Development Report 1992, published in
tions, and other NGOs, so as to increase their  May 1992.
level of participation in designing, implement-  The Bank, together with the other two im-
ing, and managing rural-development activities.  plementing agencies of the Global Environ-
A S7.8 million community-development fund  ment Facility (GEF)-the UNDP and UNEP-
is being established by the project to support  organized meetings with NGOs just prior to the
the involvement of communities and grass-  semiannual GEF Participants' Meetings (held
roots NGOs in the identification of investment  in December 1991 and April-May 1992). To
needs, as well as in implementation and main-  ensure a continued high level of NGO partici-
tenance of small-scale rural enterprises. The  pation in shaping the GEF, it was decided that
direct beneficiaries of the fund will be small  these NGO meetings, organized in parallel
farmers' organizations, associations of farm  with the Participants' Meetings, will become
workers, water-users' associations, and other  regularized. Nongovernmental organizations
types of grassroots groups that comprise   have a special role to play in GEE-financed
twelve or more small-scale farmers. Some   projects: A $5 million grant "window" for
community-development projects are being de-  NGOs, administered by the UNDP, has been
signed exclusively for rural women, with the  set up under the GEF to support NGO initia-
objectives of raising nutritional levels and in-  tives in biodiversity.
creasing employment and incomes. These       The Bank's Economic Development Institute
projects involve raising small livestock and  (EDI) also recognizes the important role that
growing fruits and vegetables, as well as arti-  NGOs play in development and has begun in-
san crafts, community infrastructure, and  cluding NGO representatives more frequently
training in household/community agroindustry.  in its courses for developing-country civil ser-
Bank staff are encouraged to work closely  vants and policymakers. Moreover, EDI has
with NGOs in most aspects of Bank work,    initiated, largely with funding from the govern-
particularly in the planning and design of  ment of Japan, several new programs specifi-
projects and policies. Early consultation with  catty targeted to the developing-country NGO
NGOs, especially groups of poor people that  community. Some of the programs aim at facil-
may be affected by a particular project or  itating dialogue among NGOs, governments,
policy, can be as important to operational or  and donor agencies to improve the planning and
policymaking success as the NGOs' implemen-  execution of development policies and pro-
tation abilities. A list of prospective Bank-  grams and to foster an "enabling environment"
supported operations in which Bank staff see  for collaboration. Others aim at strengthening
potential for NGO involvement is regularly  NGO staff in strategic planning and manage-
updated to facilitate interaction with NGOs in  ment through the development of enhanced
the early stages of project preparation.   in-country capacity for training NGOs. Both
Policy discussions involving the Bank and  regional seminars and national workshops are
NGOs have begun to intensify. Nongovern-   being offered, and discussion topics have been
mental organizations can be effective advo-  selected based on consultation with NGOs in
cates for policy change, and the Bank attaches  each region or subregion. Each meeting has
great value to its ongoing dialogue with them  been jointly organized with a local NGO or
on development-policy issues. By engaging in  nongovernmental training institute.


﻿Interagency Cooperation  101
The NGO-World Bank Committee is the     with regard to aid flows, as well as debt and
principal forum for Bank-NGO consultation.  financial transfers. Participatory development,
Formed in 1982, it provides an opportunity for  tied aid, technical cooperation, and governance
the exploration of policy issues by NGO lead-  issues have featured prominently in the recent
ers from around the world and Bank managers.  dialogue between the Bank and the DAC.
The committee's NGO members, collectively   Cooperation with the regional development
called the NGO Working Group on the World  banks. The World Bank and the African De-
Bank, have adopted an election process that  velopment Bank (AfDB) continue to increase
allows for annual rotation of a fifth of their  and strengthen their collaborative efforts. The
membership and, thus, for a much broader  Bank has been involved in numerous joint
representation of the NGO community world-  initiatives with the AfDB, and the AfDBs
wide. The committee held its eleventh annual  cofinancing of Bank-assisted projects has more
meeting in Suraj Kund, India, in October 1991.  than tripled since the mid 1980s-from about
The three themes currently under consider-  $170 million in 1985 to more than $525 million
ation by the committee are structural adjust-  in 1991. The two institutions have identified
ment and poverty; participatory development;  several key programs and sectors to which
and funding mechanisms for NGOs.          they will give particular attention, such as
The dialogue in the NGO-World Bank Com-  women in development, private-sector devel-
mittee over the past few years was a catalyst in  opment, and regional economic integration. In
the launching, in fiscal 1992, of a Bankwide,  addition to operational concerns, the Bank and
three-year program of learning on participatory  the AfDB have also begun to coordinate their
development. With the help of a $1.3 million  analytical and methodological approaches to
trust fund established by the Swedish Interna-  these major development issues.
tional Development Authority, this exercise  The Bank's relationship with the Asian De-
seeks to (a) develop and document participa-  velopment Bank continues to be close. Con-
tory Bank operational activities (many of  tacts between the two new vice presidencies in
which involve NGOs), (b) accelerate Bank  the Bank, for South Asia and for East Asia and
learning from various other efforts on partici-  Pacific. and their counterparts in the AsDB
pation that are taking place, and (c) investigate  were consolidated soon after the Bank's De-
ways in which the Bank may need to change its  cember 1991 organizational changes. A new
operational practices to encourage wider par-  area of cooperation between the two institu-
ticipation. In February 1992, the Bank spon-  tions concerns initial economic work and anal-
sored an international workshop on participa-  yses on Cambodia. During fiscal 1992, the
tory development to open up the learning  Bank provided the AsDB with information
exercise to a broader spectrum of Bank staff  on the design and implementation of policy-
and to those in academia, the NGO commu-  based lending-a field entered into only re-
nity, and other development agencies who  cently by the AsDB. By mutual agreement,
have made important contributions to the par-  cofinancing by the AsDB for Bank projects
ticipation debate. The recommendations of the  usually consists of parallel financing of sepa-
workshop are helping to shape the future di-  rate projects within a sector rather than cofi-
rection and priorities of the participatory de-  nancing a single project. Exceptions are made
velopment-learning program.               for unusually large and complex projects and
Cooperation with the European Community  for projects in the Pacific islands, for which
and with the Organisation for Economic Co-  the AsDB takes the lead role in preparing,
operation and Development (OECD). A new   processing, and supervising projects. The
position in the Bank's European office was  AsDB provided cofinancing, totaling $368
created in July 1991 to act as liaison with, and  million, for two projects-in Fiji and Indone-
to monitor and analyze issues dealing with, the  sia-during fiscal year 1992.
European Community (EC). A system of con- The Inter-American Development Bank
tact points has been established with the Eu-  (1DB) continued to be the largest multilateral
ropean Commission in Brussels. With the EC  cofinancer of Bank-assisted projects during fis-
rapidly increasing the amount of aid it pro-  cal 1992. Fourteen cofinancing operations were
vides, effective cooperation with it has become  arranged with the IDB for a total of $2.0 billion,
increasingly important to the Bank.       up $600 million from fiscal 1991 totals. The IDB
The Bank actively pursues a dialogue on  provided 38 percent of all cofinancing funds
policies and practices of mutual concern to  from multilateral institutions during the year.
bilateral and multilateral aid donors with the  The surge, during the past two fiscal years, of
OECD and its Development Assistance Com-  cofnancing from the IDB is attributable to the
mittee (DAC). Data are regularly exchanged  recent introduction of sector lending into its
between the Bank and the DAC, especially  lending program. Cooperation between the DB


﻿102 World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and iCSID
and the Bank goes beyond cofinancing, how-   Cooperation on agricultural research. The
ever. Since 1990, staff of both institutions have  Bank, together with the FAG and the UNDP,
together participated in several preparation,  is a cosponsor of the Consultative Group on
preappraisal, appraisal, and economic sector-  International Agricultural Research (CGIAR),
review missions. Periodic consultations on op-  an informal association of some forty public-
erations, information sharing, and formulation  sector and private-sector donors jointly sup-
of initiatives are integral parts of the cooper-  porting a network of sixteen international agri-
ation. Senior staff of the IDB and the Bank's  cultural-research centers (IARCs). The Bank
Latin America and the Caribbean region hold  provides the CGIAR with its chairman and with
monthly meetings to follow up on major issues  an executive secretariat located in Washington.
affecting both institutions.                 The CGIAR has been designed to ensure
The Bank and the European Bank for Re-   that international scientific capacity is brought
construction and Development (EBRD) coor-  to bear on the food, agriculture, forestry, and
dinated their activities at various levels over  fisheries problems of the world's disadvan-
the past year. For instance, the EBRD cofi-  taged peoples.
nanced Bank projects in telecommunications   Following the decision made in fiscal 1991 to
in Hungary and housing in Poland and jointly  establish a new center for forestry research as
appraised with the Bank and the European   part of the CGIAR's orientation toward natu-
Investment Bank a telecommunications proj-  ral-resource management, the Australian Cen-
ect in Czechoslovakia. Cooperation between  tre for International Agricultural Research
the Bank and the EBRD in the republics of the  (ACIAR) was selected to bring the new center
former Soviet Union included technical assis-  into being. At its main 1991 meeting, CGIAR
tance for privatization and the preparation of  members endorsed a proposal from the ACIAR
the "Review of Food Policy Options and Ag-  for drafting a constitution, selecting a board of
ricultural Sector Reforms."                management, outlining a research program,
Cooperation with the International Mone-  and providing for a collaborative relationship
tary Fund. The Bank and the IMF collaborate  between the Nairobi-based International Coun-
closely, through their lending programs and  cil for Research in Agroforestry (ICRAF) and
policy advice, in helping member countries  the new institution. Priority areas of research
establish a policy and institutional environ-  for the new center, which will be called the
ment conducive to economic stability and   Center for International Forestry Research, in-
growth. A mid 1990 review of the experience of  dude germplasm exploration, breeding and im-
collaboration by the Bank and the IMF reaf-  provement of tree species, conservation and
firmed the efficacy of the principles and pro-  management of natural forests, ecosystems pol-
cedures currently in place. Over the past year,  icy and marketing research, information man-
the two staffs worked particularly closely in  agement, and training. The center will be lo-
the design of programs to assist Central and  cated in East Asia and wilt conduct outreach
Eastern European countries in the transition  activities in other regions.
from central planning to the market and in the  In 1991, the twentieth anniversary of the
development of debt-workout programs for   establishment of the CGIAR offered an oppor-
countries in arrears to one or both institutions.  tunity for taking stock of what has been
The Bank and the IMF are currently moving to  achieved in two decades of research work. The
the operational stage of assisting new members  CGIAR has always been associated with the
from the former Soviet Union. Because the   "green revolution," which introduced high-
complexity and scale of the transition of these  yielding cereal varieties in numerous develop-
countries to market-oriented economies re-  ing countries, especially in Asia, Latin Amer-
quire the closest coordination between the two  ica, and the Middle East.
institutions, staff of the Bank and the IMF  The progress achieved in increasing average
were provided with guidance during the year  rice and wheat yields during the turbulent
on four aspects of this work: (a) assessment of  1980s, often considered a "lost decade for
macroeconomic-adjustment needs, the prior-  development," has been particularly notewor-
ities for structural reforms, and the comple-  thy. As a result of the green revolution, many
mentarity of policy requirements in each of  poor food-deficit countries, despite population
these areas for success in the other; (b) coor-  growth, succeeded in cutting their food deficit
dination in the development of individual ad-  or achieving surpluses and reducing poverty.
justment and reform programs, and on the    Directly and indirectly, the CGIAR has con-
critical interrepublic issues that transcend  tributed to reducing mass poverty by increas-
country-specific programs; (c) coordination  ing foodcrop  and  livestock  productivity.
with other institutions; and (d) arrangements  Higher productivity means better incomes for
for mobilizing financial assistance,       farmers and lower food prices for consumers.


﻿Personnel and Administration  103
Since the late 1960s, cereal prices have almost  late in fiscal 1991, totaled $1,069 million, which
continuously decreased, thus improving the  was increased by a mid-year supplement of $4
living standard of the very poor, who spend up  million. In late fiscal 1992, the executive direc-
to 80 percent of their income on food. The  tors approved an administrative budget for
resulting improvements in nutrition, health,  fiscal 1993 of $1,250.9 million (see Table 5-4), a
and purchasing power are perhaps among the  rise of 11.7 percent in real terms over the
most tangible benefits that development work  previous year's budget.
has brought to the poorest.                  The budget embodies the Bank's program
In 1991, CGIAR centers agreed to imple-  priorities as endorsed by the executive direc-
ment an action program, funded by donor    tors: a substantial increase in operational pro-
contributions, to address both gender analysis  grams, driven by the extraordinary needs of
and gender staffing at the IARCs. Gender is a  new and activating countries; minimal growth
useful socioeconomic variable that can be used  for other nonoperational programs; significant
to analyze roles, responsibilities, constraints,  efficiency gains and redeployment of resources
opportunities, and incentives of the people  from organizational streamlining and from re-
involved in agriculture.                   search and policy work; and incorporation of
Studies have highlighted the fact that women  the program for the former Soviet republics
are critical to agricultural production and that  into the Bank's regular programs.
their access to necessary resources and effec-  During the year, a revised budget system
tive technologies is often constrained by gen-  was approved, designed to reduce complexity,
der barriers, which must be removed if agricul-  increase  cost-consciousness, and  provide
tural productivity and gender equity are to be  transparency in planning and monitoring the
enhanced.                                  use of resources, while providing managers
At the CGIAR's annual meeting in October  and executive directors timely, relevant, and
1991, scientists from the International Rice Re-  adequate information.
search Institute (IRRI) conducted a briefing on  The new budget system provides for:
ongoing work to develop a modified rice plant  9 the preparation of provisional budget
that could help to break the current rice-yield  guidelines, to be incorporated into a "Planning
barrier by producing 20 percent to 30 percent  Directions Paper" for review by the Commit-
more than the best semi-dwarf varieties now  tee of the Whole (December-January);
grown on irrigated land. The ultra-high-yielding  * the preparation of detailed unit three-year
variety, which should be ready in five to eight  business plans, including proposed budgets for
years, is intended to help achieve the 60 percent  the coming fiscal year, consistent with the
increase in world rice output-to 760 million  budget guidelines (mid January-mid May);
tons a year-that will be necessary to feed the  e the Bankwide budget proposal for the
world's growing population.                following fiscal year, formulated within a
The new plant architecture aims at reducing  three-year business-planning framework, to be
the number of tillers or stalks, almost all of  distributed to the executive board for its con-
which will bear panicles, thus producing more  sideration in June; and
and heavier grains. A single-stalked rice is  * the further extension of dollar budgeting to
what is needed in the future, according to  enhance cost consciousness and improve
IRRI's rice breeders. The ideotype plant will  transparency.
have a vigorous root system to draw soil     At the end of fiscal year 1992, World Bank
nutrients more effectively; its seeds will germi-  regular and fixed-term staff on board num-
nate better and produce more vigorous seed-  bered 6,046, of which 3,893 were higher-level
lings; and it will have greater pest resistance.  staff of 117 nationalities. This represented an
In 1991, thirty-eight donors contributed a total  increase of 2.5 percent for all staff, and 3.2
of $231.1 million to the centers' core programs.  percent for higher-level staff. Of the higher-
The Bank contributed $35.1 million. Seventy-  level staff, 57.8 percent were from industrial-
seven percent of the contributions came from  ized countries; the remaining 42.2 percent
donor countries, while international or regional  were from developing countries-a proportion
organizations contributed 22 percent. The bal-  almost identical to that which prevailed in the
ance was provided by two foundations. In addi-  previous year.
tion to core funding, the centers also received  Women formed 27.4 percent of the higher-
$51.6 million in grants for complementary re-  level total, compared with 26.7 percent in fiscal
search and institution-building activities.  year 1991. Of the 272 higher-level staff who
joined the Bank during the year, 42.3 percent
Personnel and Administration               were from developing countries and 26.8 per-
The Bank's administrative budget for fiscal  cent were women. Thirty-three of the new
1992, as approved by the executive directors  recruits were selected through the Young Pro-


﻿104    World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
Table 54. World Bank Budget by Expense Category and Work Program, Fiscal Years
1990-93
(millions of US dollars)
Actual                           1993
Term                                      1990a          1991            1992           program
Expense category
Staff costs                               561.8          613.8           702.0           804.1
Consultants                                69.2           78.0            89.2           101.6
Contractual services/representation        32.3           33.5            48.8            40.9
Operational travel                         88.3           96.9           113.5           121.1
Overhead/contingency                      138.2          149.6           162.4           194.3
Direct contributions to Special
Grants Program                           52.6           57.0            58.5            838b
Reimbursements                            (55.2)          (65.2)        (100.5)           (94.9)
Total                                887.1          963.6         1,074.0          1,250.9
Work program
Operational                               319.5          350.6           390.7           448.0
Financial                                  44.3           47.5            51.3            54.3
Policy, research, and
dissemination                            86.9           90.2            94.9            98.4
Operations evaluation                       6.5            7.0             7.9             8.3
Administrative support                     57.7           64.1            68.7            70.0
Boards, corporate management,
and legal services                       41.1           46.6            52.3            55.5
Total regular programs               556.1          606.1           665.8           734.4
Reimbursable programs                      18.4           22.9            36.6            44.4
Special programs                           60.9           65.0            65.7            93.6b
Overhead/benefits                         307.1          334.9           406.4           462.9
President's contingencyc                     ..             ..              ..            10.4
Reimbursements                            (55.2)         (65.2)         (100.5)           (94.9)
Total                                887.1          963.7         1,074.0          1,250.9
Memo item
Total in millions of fiscal 1993
dollars                               1,053.3         1,085.9        1,121.2          1,250.9d
Kc, i Dor al- ma'. r...  J t. totals because of rounding.
. E .  bi c ac  u ar.-lmen of $149.8 million, approved by the board on May 31, 1990, to fund the Retired Staff Benefits
Ilan
b. Includes contribution to the institutional Development Fund.
c. Allocations from the president's contingency have been included under the respective work programs for fiscal 1990-92.
d. $820.4 million for the IBRD and $430.5 million for IDA.
fessionals Program. Fourteen were from devel-           splitting of the Asia region and the Europe,
oping countries, and thirteen were women.          Middle East, and North Africa (EMENA) re-
At the end of the year, a total of 766 higher-  gion into four separate regions;
level, long-term consultants (those with con-
tracts with a duration of six months or more)
were working for the Bank, and 523 regular
and fixed-term staff were in special positions.'
Fiscalposition system under which positions are authorized for
organizational changes. The structural changes      execution of specified work programs within the limits of
included:                                           specified budgets. In principle, special positions are autho-
* elimination of the senior vice presidencies,    rized to enable the employment of persons in activities
to create a flatter management structure;           considered autonomous from regular Bank operations.
to crate aUse of such positions is therefore confined to staffing of
* strengthening of the presidency through the     programs which, for a variety of reasons, are "on the
creation of three managing-director positions;      margin' of the Bank's regular work program.


﻿International Finance Corporation  105
* creation of a new department to manage and systems changes are at various stages of
operations in the republics of the former Soviet  implementation.
Union;                                       Two other personnel studies were completed
* creation of the Vice Presidency for Sector  during the year. In February 1992, the compre-
and Operations Policy;                     hensive review of staff benefits, which began
* partial restructuring of the Vice Presi- in 1990, was completed and discussed by the
dency for Development Economics; and       executive directors. Changes in the staff-retire-
* realignment of the Vice Presidency for ment and medical plans had been made in
Cofinancing and Financial Services.        earlier fiscal years. In February 1992, the ex-
The structural changes were accompanied  ecutive directors approved some changes in
by changes in business processes, resource  expatriate benefits.
use, and management style. All the changes   A report by the Advisory Group on Higher
reflected a shared preoccupation with simplifi-  Level Women's Issues, completed in April
cation, flexibility, client responsiveness, and  1992, recommended a comprehensive strategy
efficiency. These concerns reinforced the ob-  to improve the representation of women at
jectives of the 1987 reorganization by providing  senior organizational levels. Implementation of
an organizational framework for strong leader-  the strategy began during the second half of the
ship, enhanced managerial accountability, and  fiscal year and will continue through 1997.
closer cooperation between business units.   The project to rehabilitate the Bank's main
The major challenge for Personnel and Ad-  complex buildings progressed well, and most
ministration in fiscal year 1992 was to support  major contracts have been awarded. First-
the expansion of the newly created Europe and  phase occupancy is scheduled to begin at the
Central Asia (ECA) region and to implement  end of fiscal 1993. Other facilities work fo-
the staffing changes prompted by the organiza-  cused on space management to accommodate
tional restructuring, while continuing the re-  the expansion of ECA regional staff.
form of the overall personnel-management sys-  In the area of information technology, the
tem and the rehabilitation of the Bank's main  Bank is building an "enterprise network,"
facilities complex. Steps were also taken to  which will provide all users with a standard
implement the Bank's information-technology  interface to offered network services. The net-
strategy and to strengthen competitive bidding  work will be centrally managed and supported
for general-services contracts.            and will be sufficiently robust to allow multi-
In March 1992, the executive board ap-   media communication, including video, image,
proved an additional administrative-budget al-  voice, and high-resolution graphics, as well as
location in the amount of $4 million to enable  text and numeric data. It will allow staff to
the expansion of Bank assistance to the repub-  exchange information freely within the institu-
lics of the former Soviet Union. This included  tion and with external entities, including gov-
the addition of ninety-four higher-level and  ernments of member countries.
forty-six support-level positions to the staff of  In the area of general services, the travel-
the ECA region.                            services contract was re-bid during the year.
Approximately half of the additional higher-  Effective August 1, 1992, the Bank will use two
level positions were filled from inside the Bank  travel-service contractors instead of one. Sim-
through reassignments. An intensive recruit-  ilarly, the process of re-bidding the food-ser-
ment campaign was launched to fill the remain-  vices contract has begun.
ing new positions in the ECA region and the
vacancies created through internal reassign-  International Finance Corporation
ments. As of June 30, 1992, fifty-two of the  The  International Finance  Corporation
new higher-level positions and nineteen of the  (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group,
new support-level positions had been filled.  promotes private enterprise in its developing
A special study of the personnel function  member countries. It does this by financing
and of key personnel-management processes  sound private-sector projects, mobilizing debt
was completed in November 1991 and resulted  and equity financing in the international mar-
in a series of measures to strengthen the insti-  kets for private companies, and providing tech-
tutional focus of personnel management.    nical assistance and advisory services to busi-
These included a revised performance-man-  nesses and governments.
agement system, more focused attention to    The IFC met several key objectives in its
individual career planning, a centrally coordi-  financing operations in fiscal 1992. Financing
nated reassignment process, and tighter con-  approved for IFCs own account was $1.8
trols over training. The structure of the person-  billion for 167 projects, compared with $1.5
nel function was changed to ensure greater  billion for 152 projects in fiscal 1991. Equity
synergy between its various functions. Policy  and quasi-equity investments, which repre-


﻿106   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
sented 21 percent of total financing approved  nies, such as a risk-management line to a
for IFC's own account, were increased in ac-  Mexican bank that can be used to provide the
cordance with the corporation's goal of helping  bank's clients with collars and currency and
companies in developing countries to decrease  interest-rate swaps.
their reliance on debt financing. And the IFC  The IFC approved financing and mobilized
was successful in its role as a catalyst, mobiliz-  substantial additional debt and equity financing
ing substantial amounts of private capital from  from other sources for a number of private-
other investors and lenders, with relatively  sector infrastructure projects-for example, a
small outlays of its own funds. It approved a  toll road in Mexico, a power project in India,
record $1.4 billion in financing to be mobilized  telecommunications companies in Costa Rica,
through loan syndications and the underwriting  Hungary, Jamaica, and Romania-promoting
of securities issues and investment funds.  private-sector investment in industries that were
Projects approved by the IFC had total invest-  once owned by the state.
ment costs of $12 billion; this means that other  New commitments during the year totaled
investors and lenders provided a total of six  $1.3 billion. With disbursements of $1.1 billion,
dollars for every dollar approved by the IFC.  IFC's disbursed portfolio grew by 16 percent
The corporation approved projects in fifty-  during the year. At the end of the year, the
one countries, as well as several projects with  disbursed loan and equity portfolio totaled $5
a regional or international scope. Financing  billion, compared with $4.3 billion at June 30,
approved for projects in the Middle East and  1991.
North Africa nearly tripled over fiscal 1991, to  Demand for the IFC's advisory services and
$173 million. In sub-Saharan Africa, the IFC  technical assistance grew substantially. The
approved financing of $284 million, including  IFC launched a program of technical assis-
$14 million for small companies through its  tance in the former Soviet Union, designing
Africa Enterprise Fund; in Asia, $456 million;  and implementing Russia's first privatization,
in Europe, $253 million; and in Latin America  an auction to sell off 2,000 small-scale enter-
and the Caribbean, $607 million.           prises in Nizhny Novgorod. It also advised
Projects spanned a range of sectors, includ-  companies and governments in Asia, Europe,
ing financial services, tourism, mining, petro-  and Latin America on corporate restructuring
chemicals, power, oil and gas exploration,  and privatization.
telecommunications, agribusiness, and general  In the area of capital-market development,
manufacturing. A number of projects, particu-  the IFC provided technical assistance to gov-
larly in Central and Eastern Europe, involved  ernments of twenty-one countries on such mat-
newly privatized companies and financial insti-  ters as the development of stock exchanges
tutions, such as the first commercial bank to be  and securities-market regulations, the restruc-
privatized in Czechoslovakia.              turing of commercial banks and establishment
The IFC offered clients a broad range of  of other types of financial institutions, the use
financial products and services, helping them  of vouchers and mutual funds for privatizing
to gain access to sophisticated risk-manage-  state enterprises, and the drafting of leasing
ment techniques, such as currency and inter-  legislation.
est-rate swaps and commodities-hedging facil-  The IFC's Technical Advisory Service pro-
ities, that would not normally be available to  vided fee-based advice and assistance to com-
companies in developing countries. Of the nine  panies and governments on such matters as
projects involving the provision of hedging  technical restructuring, marketing and feasibil-
instruments, three were for companies in sub-  ity studies, and strategic planning. And, through
Saharan Africa. The IFC acted as co-lead   its Technical Assistance Trust Funds, the IFC
manager in nine international securities issues,  financed activities related to project preparation,
with a total value of $1 billion, by companies in  such as project identification, prefeasibiity stud-
Asia, Europe, and Latin America, including  ies, pilot operations, sector studies, training, and
the first international equity offering ever by a  short-term management support.
Venezuelan company, the first floating-rate  The IFC supports four facilities that provide
note issued by a private Turkish bank, and two  advice to small-scale entrepreneurs on devel-
country funds.                             oping project proposals and raising financing
The IFC also provided funding and financial  for them: the Africa Project Development Fa-
products to small and medium-sized compa-  cility, the Business Advisory Service for the
nies through financial intermediaries. It ap-  Caribbean and Central America, the Polish
proved eight projects involving credit and  Business Advisory Service, and the South Pa-
guarantee lines and innovative facilities that  cific Project Facility.
will make a range of financial products and  The Foreign Investment Advisory Service
hedging instruments available to local compa-  (FIAS), which is supervised by a committee


﻿Muliaterai Investment Guarantee Agency  107
consisting of representatives of the IFC,  insurance to mitigate political risk through its
MIGA, and the Bank, provides advice on     guarantee program. It also provides promo-
matters related to foreign direct investment. In  tional and advisory services to assist member
fiscal 1992, FIAS completed twenty-four ad-  countries to attract and retain FDI.
visory assignments in twenty-one countries   Guarantee  program. MIGA's   guarantee
and one assignment in Central Europe.      program protects investors against losses aris-
The IFC registered another strong financial  ing from the noncommercial risks of currency
performance in fiscal 1992. Net income was $180  transfer, expropriation, and war and civil dis-
million, representing a return of 7.5 percent on  turbance.
the corporation's net worth. Borrowings in the  MIGA may only insure new investments,
international markets came to $664 million, an including the expansion of existing invest-
increase of 11 percent over fiscal 1991.   ments, privatizations, and financial restructur-
In fiscal 1992, demand for the IFC's services  ings. Projects must be registered with MLGA
continued to increase as countries throughout  before the investments are made or irrevocably
the developing world pursued free-market re-  committed. MIGA can insure up to 90 percent
forms. The IFC's membership grew to 146    of the investment amount, subject to a limit of
countries.  Albania,  Bulgaria,  Equatorial  $50 million of coverage per project. Eligible
Guinea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic,  investments include equity, loans made or
and Switzerland joined the IFC during the year,  guaranteed by equity holders, and certain other
and fourteen of the fifteen former Soviet repub-  forms of direct investment. MIGA may insure a
lics had applied for membership in the corpora-  loan made by a financial institution if the agency
tion by June 30. To help the IFC meet the  is also insuring a shareholder's investment in
challenge of serving its newest members in  the project. MIGA's standard policy covers
Central and Eastern Europe, as well as in  investments for fifteen years; in exceptional
Central Asia, while expanding and diversifying  cases, coverage may be extended to twenty
its operations elsewhere, the IFC's capital was  years. MIGA also cooperates with national in-
increased and its structure reorganized.   vestment-insurance agencies and private insur-
On May 4, 1992, the IFC's board of gover-  ers to coinsure or reinsure eligible investments.
nors voted to increase the IFC's capital from  In fiscal 1992, MIGA reinsured projects with
$1.3 billion to $2.3 billion, as recommended by  two national agencies (the Export Development
the board of directors in fiscal 1991. The $1  Corporation of Canada and the Overseas Pri-
billion increase was intended to enable the IFC  vate Investment Corporation of the United
to increase new investment approvals in all  States) and with a private insurer, Nordia.
regions by 10 percent a year until 1998, bring-  In fiscal 1992, MIGA doubled its volume of
ing annual approvals to about $4 billion by the  projects insured relative to fiscal 1991. MIGA
end of the decade. With the accession to   issued twenty-one guarantees with a maximum
membership of the former Soviet republics,  contingent liability of $313 million, represent-
this rate of growth may increase to 12 percent  ing a total of $1.0 billion in direct investment.
to 15 percent.                             These projects are expected to generate an
Under the IFC's new structure, most financ-  estimated 2,920 new jobs in host countries by
ing operations will be handled by five Regional  the fifth year of operation. All of MICA's
Investment Departments and four new Special-  projects are carefully reviewed to ensure they
ist Departments. The reorganization will allow  support the environmental and developmental
the IFC to develop stronger regional strategies  objectives of the World Bank Group.
while increasing its specialization in sectors of  The assisted investors included: Citibank,
developmental and economic importance in its  N.A., of the United States for expansions of
member countries-oil, gas, and mining;     Citibank branch operations in Turkey and
chemicals, petrochemicals, and fertilizers; in-  Pakistan; Soci6t6 G6n6rale, a French financial
frastructure; and agribusiness.            institution, for new branch banks in Pakistan
Details of the IFC's fiscal year can be found  and Poland; Komatsu Ltd., a Japanese com-
in its annual report, published separately.  pany, for an equity investment in an Indone-
sian joint venture; the Coca-Cola Export Cor-
Multilateral Investment Guarantee          poration of the United States/Ringnes AS. of
Agency                                     Norway for a total of three equity investments
The mandate of the Multilateral Investment  in the soft-drink market in Poland; AVX Cor-
Guarantee Agency (MIGA) is to encourage the  poration, an American subsidiary of Kyocera
flow of foreign direct investment (FDI) to, and  Corporation of Japan, for expansion of a man-
among, developing member countries.        ufacturing facility and reinsurance of an exist-
Established in 1988 as a member of the   ing facility in El Salvador; Philip Morris Coi-
World Bank Group, MIGA offers investment   panies, Inc. of the United States for a joint


﻿108   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
venture in Turkey; Rio Algom Ltd. of Canada  entered into bilateral treaties for the protection
for an investment in Chile; Bank of Boston, a  and promotion of foreign investments. MIGA
U.S. financial institution, for an expansion of  also concluded legal-protection agreements with
its banking activities in Argentina; and Cam-  six member countries that will make it easier
bior Inc. of Canada for a gold-mining invest-  for MIGA to issue investment guarantees.
ment in Guyana.                              In addition, twenty-four advisory projects
Acceptance of MIGA's coverages and serv-  were completed by the Foreign Investment Ad-
ices has met with considerable success: At the  visory Service (FIAS). FIAS worked in thirty-
end of fiscal 1992, preliminary applications for  two countries during the year, of which approx-
guarantee that were registered and eligible for  imately one third were in Africa, one third were
coverage increased by 10 percent over fiscal  in Asia, and one third were in the rest of the
1991 figures to 302.                       world. FIAS provides member governments
Promotional and advisory services. MIGA   with advice on policy and institutional issues
provides promotional and advisory services to  affecting FDI flow. FIAS research and advisory
its developing member countries to support  services became more diverse in fiscal 1992
their efforts to attract foreign direct invest-  For example, in three projects FIAS explored
ment. These services include the organization  the policies and programs that would help facil-
of investment-promotion conferences, execu-  itate and promote backward linkages between
tive-development programs, foreign-invest-  foreign investors and local suppliers. However,
ment policy roundtables, research, and spe-  the bulk of the advisory work, as in earlier
cialized advisory assistance to governments.  years, was focused on diagnostic studies and
In fiscal 1992, MIGA organized an invest-  reviews of specific investment policies.
ment-promotion conference, attended by more  Some notable examples of advisory work
than 400 foreign investors and business exec-  included:
utives and 200 local entrepreneurs, in Pakistan.  a In Malawi, FIAS helped the government to
The Pakistan government estimates that, as a  develop an investment-policy statement, in-
result of the conference, letters of intent for  vestment guidelines, and the statutory basis for
investments worth about $600 million were  launching an investment-promotion agency;
exchanged.                                   * in Western Samoa. FIAS identified policy
To complement its investment-promotion   issues that may be retarding foreign-invest-
conferences, MIGA launched its executive-  ment flows;
development program series during the year.  9 in Honduras, FIAS assisted in drafting the
The programs are designed to upgrade the   new foreign-investment law;
skills of local managers in developing countries  9 in Yemen, an advisory project reviewed
in negotiations and business-plan formulation.  the investment-policy framework and then sug-
Programs were conducted for more than 200  gested an institutional framework that would
business executives from a wide spectrum of  administer remaining investment regulations
industries and company sizes in Portugal (for a  effectively, as well as develop and carry out an
number of lusophone African countries), An-  investment-promotion program: and
gola, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary.           9 FIAS completed a study of corporate in-
MIGA also organized the first of a series of  come taxation in five Central and Eastern
foreign-investment policy  roundtables  in  European countries (Bulgaria, Czechoslova-
Botswana in June 1992. This roundtable pro-  kia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania).
vided top policymakers from several African  Member relations. During the year, fifteen
countries with an opportunity to learn from  additional countries signed the MIGA Conven-
each other and from other policymakers in  tion, increasing the number of signatories to
successful non-African countries about the  115. Twenty-one countries completed all mem-
most effective policies for attracting foreign  bership requirements, bringing the number of
direct investment. Managers of multinational  full members to eighty-five.
companies were also invited to explain what  Details of MIGA's activities in fiscal 1992
economic and political factors they consider in  appear in the MIGA Annual Report 1992,
making foreign-investment decisions.       which is published separately.
MIGA's advisory assistance included signif-
icant work on the legal framework for FDI in  International Centre for Settlement of
member states. MIGA has worked with a num-  Investment Disputes
ber of countries as they have liberalized the  The International Centre for Settlement of
laws applying to foreign investments. Several  Investment Disputes (ICSID) is a separate
developing countries have enacted new stat-  international organization established under
utes that provide for international arbitration  the Convention on the Settlement of Invest-
to settle investment disputes and many have  ment Disputes between States and Nationals of


﻿International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes  109
Other States (the Convention), which was   had signed but not yet ratified the Convention.
opened for signature in 1965 and entered into  In fiscal 1992, a request for arbitration was
force the following year.                  registered in one case, and an annulment
ICSID seeks to encourage greater flows of  proceeding was instituted in another case.
international investment by providing facilities  Altogether, five cases were pending before
for the conciliation and arbitration of disputes  the centre as of June 30, 1992.
between governments and foreign investors.   ICSID's foreign-investment law publications
To further its investment-promotion objec-  include a semiannual law journal, "ICSID Re-
tives, ICSID also carries out a range of re-  view-Foreign Investment Law Journal" and
search and publications activities in the field of  multivolume collections of Investment Laws of
foreign-investment law,                    the World and Investment Treaties. Two issues
During fiscal 1992, membership in ICSID  of the law journal and three releases of the
continued to grow with the ratification of the  investment laws and treaties collections were
Convention by Albania, Chile, Czechoslova-  published in fiscal 1992.
kia, Estonia, and Tanzania. As of June 30,   Details of ICSID's activities during fiscal
1992, ICSID membership comprised ninety-   1992 appear in its annual report, which is
nine countries; an additional thirteen countries  published separately.


﻿110
JA
2½
4:4. k:
%t                                    i
A  eoete  ilid  nP kisa '  Not -Wes  FrnirP oic .A $ 92 milo  rdtt epf a c
A   e a e r d h l s d  nPa k i s t a n ' s E n i o m n a   r t c i n a n dh  e s o r c F r ne r v  o P rax ' i c   A w2 .    /a n   p r e d i  d r an   h e i   v e a nr e


﻿111
Section Six
1992 Regional Perspectives
Africa
Africa is a continent in transition. The past  However, in the short run, the process of
eighteen months have witnessed dramatic de-    political change has had some disruptive ef-
velopments in this transition, particularly in  fects on the process of economic reform, and it
the political arena, creating new challenges and  may continue, in the near term, to slow the
new opportunities both for African govern-     pace of reform and thereby delay the supply
ments and peoples and for the Bank's role in   response.
support of accelerated economic and social       For some countries, the transition has been
development in Africa. In the longer run, these  from civil war to relative peace, as for example
developments should prove beneficial by im-    in Angola and Ethiopia, where transitional
proving the transparency and accountability of  governments face managing simultaneously
governments and broadening the ownership       large-scale demobilization and the reorienta-
and the distribution of benefits of the reforms.  tion of their economic systems  away from
Tabke 6-1. Africa: 1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that Borrowed
during Fiscal Years 1990-92
Pe, ..  ni1                                  ..  iTl
I.ac ofrol                                reor    an t-11hrb  dela th  supplyJO
ncliIiij2                   n        Lc.oiho                  I  N        11
B3cnir,                   <il 411i             1,J.~   IT ri                       2
Bot-t'an.i                 .24       2  141i 1 i  Ni,.                   ;I)       211I
Forso.m F                                              e31,  out re , eritio hsbe
Burundi                                       f    l   warMtoreiariterpaice,  for eale
einAnglarde         -ndEthiopi wher                                  t     itonal
d enuri Fisan RC   990h-9
L rad*rl.*I                           l14I1   Nuci  u                'r i.-. 2a\P1
.Crnor'.                 Ill.         4.lltI  R -da IR                             3 n111
Burundf 2In                                  .1.mrI..ni t             I  * llil
( r-v c   \  rdte            I          l    M  w   L4:.r   I         ". - 1I
Equit oria ji  1         4  1               IMili              I     .211
Elrnpr                     -N         -       S-idR.andi                          n
C  tbon                    .  H I.li         an, ITI,,  n r cI ,Ill
(tnle I .               11."'  21I hen' .t4-I                                    41,
Ehun.,    un4.ei-11i               n 11r n td I                    .t,   Ii2'
(j itI l Iric                        4411    /iJ1 n 1                   3I        22'n
G  br..l - I  .ta                  1 NIt   / .:nhi.,               . II         11
Ke  riL                    ..4 "o ag I      I    I T   C         l.  1.J 1   t,
N. 7  T[, Lk -  Il c l .ii  t  ~C i  T i TI 1, j   %It  I t , I f-r c IT.c  %th.-I.j  [  .T.rmoll i  I.i* I tii
.1 F' ii    M  W4iL7.iue m,.IJ III
L    i  t-B  - i, *TlcTt-ljiIh             n Ih j Is I  l  -r
Tbn1: ti   iT  4 1 rc1  .  irtil il frz i1  It  Ig,h.               J tfh


﻿112   1992 Regional Perspectives
central planning and towards mixed economies   the year under review was to assist govern-
in which the private sector will have a greater  ments with fundamental economic policy and
role. In South Africa, the transition is from a  institutional changes associated with adjust-
society governed by the rules of apartheid     ment programs and operations. In another
towards one that is more equitable and demo-   eleven countries, the strategy was reflected in
cratic. A few countries have already evolved   more traditional programs-principally invest-
peacefully from one-party regimes to multi-    ment lending supported by economic and sec-
party systems. Others are currently engaging   tor work. In five "transition countries," where
in national conferences and constitutional re-  there is currently little or no lending (including
form, moving to more open political institu-   South Africa), the Bank was positioning itself for
tions and planning elections in the near future.  greater involvement when conditions permit.
In some countries, however, the direction and
pace of near-term political development re-
main highly uncertain.                           Calendar year 1991 was one of mixed eco-
In this volatile and uncertain environment,  nomic performance in Africa. The aggregate
the Bank has moved to frame new approaches     gross domestic product (GDP) for the sub-
and appropriate responses and to engender      Saharan countries rose by an estimated 2.4
greater ownership of reform   programs. In     percent, a significant increase over the 1.3
some countries, political uncertainties have   percent growth registered in 1990. But this was
adversely affected governments' willingness or  not sufficient, in the context of Africa's high
ability to adopt or maintain viable macroeco-  population growth rate, to prevent per capita
nomic and sectoral-policy frameworks, and      income from falling by 0.6 percent. Excluding
this, in turn, has led to a reduction or suspen-  Nigeria, export and import volumes rose by 2.6
sion in Bank operations in a few countries.    percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, while
The central thrust of the Bank's strategy in  the investment ratio remained at about 17
at least twenty-five African countries during  percent of GDP. The prospects for growth in
Table 6-2. Lending to Borrowers in Africa, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1983-92
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                           1983-87      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
Agriculture and Rural
Development                      481.2     562.3     754.8    997.4     504.9     697.5
Development Finance Companies      186.2     232.5    311.6     127.6     138.8     419.9
Education                          100.2     178.2     88.2     350.7     265.9     402.9
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal                46.4       -       31.2        -      300.0      48.5
Power                            147.2      88.0     138.4    230.0     155.0      76.0
Industry                            67.8     150.5     81.4     105.1       -       406.0
Nonproject                         295.7     525.0   1,019.0    271.6     832.6     895.0
Population, Health, and Nutrition   45.7     121.4     81.3     232.7     432.8     1003
Public-sector Management            18.3     165.0       -       45.6       5.7      76.7
Small-scale Enterprises             20.4       -      270.0     130.0       -         -
Technical Assistance                58.5      95.7    144.6      56.0      81.9      88.0
Telecommunications                  33.8       -       103.3    225.0      12.8       -
Transportation                     311.9     618.6    248.7       543.6    309.5    242.8
Urban Development                   95.7     146.5    414.0     360.4      98.3     222.6
Water Supply and Sewerage           71.9      45.0    238.2     257.2     256.0     297.4
Total                       1,980.8   2,928.7   3,924.7  3,932.9   3,394.2   3,973.6
Of which: IBRD                   795.8     725.1   1,560.6   lJ147.0    662.9     738.4
IDA                    J,p184.9  2,203.6  2,364.1   2,785.9   2,731.3   3,235.2
Number of operations              79        80        81        86       77        77
-Zero.
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.


﻿Africa  113
r   -                                                 o
4   *1                                                   4
Threshing barley in Ethiopia. A $150 million IDA credit was approved in fiscal /992 to help that country embark
quickly on a process of economic and social recovery following the end of the civil war.
1992 in about ten countries in Eastern and  largest country in Africa, all of Africa's oil
Southern Africa were dampened by a severe  producers (except Angola), all countries in the
drought in the first half of 1992. This drought,  CFA zone (except Comoros), and all the Sahe-
the worst in decades, resulted in a fall of cereal  ian countries. In 1991 and into 1992, the
production by nearly half and created an incre-  process of political transition was as pro-
mental need for 8 million to 10 million tons of  nounced, and the impact as far-reaching, in
cereals imports.                           West Africa as anywhere on the continent.
There were considerable variations in GDP  There were also widely varying economic
growth among countries, and these indicate  outcomes. In the oil-exporting countries (in-
that adjustment measures, supported by donor  cluding Angola), the Gulf crisis had a tempo-
assistance, continue to make a difference. For  rary beneficial effect, contributing to an 8
the low-income countries pursuing adjustment  percent increase in exports (in real terms) and
under the Special Program  of Assistance   a 4.7 percent increase in GDP supported by a
(SPA), the average growth rate in 1991 was 3.3  12 percent increase in imports. Growth in
percent, and the median rate was 3.9 percent-  Nigeria's GDP and agricultural sectors both
better than in 1990 and considerably better  rose by about 5 percent in 1991, with total
than the averages for both Africa as a whole  nonoil production rising by just under 4 per-
and other low-income countries. Thus, per  cent. However, the combined effect of the
capita incomes rose marginally in the SPA  political transition and the short-lived effect of
countries notwithstanding the political turmoil  the Gulf crisis contributed to some weakening
in many of them. There were also small in-  in fiscal and monetary discipline, while politi-
creases in 1991 in the per capita incomes of  cal uncertainties explain in large part the lim-
African oil exporters and other African low-  ited response of private investors, both Nige-
income countries; declines occurred in some  ran and foreign, to adjustment measures.
middle-income countries.                   Another factor contributing to Nigeria's con-
The West African subregion contains a di-  strained growth and investment performance
verse mix of countries, including Nigeria, the  was its external-debt burden. In 1991, debt-


﻿114   1992 Regional Perspectives
service obligations totaled nearly $6 billion,  ments. These included elimination of the pri-
compared with export earnings of $12 billion.  mary budget deficit and adoption of an
In January 1992, however, Nigeria concluded a  ambitious program  of economic reforms
debt and debt-service reduction operation with  geared to restore competitiveness and to
commercial banks holding approximately 99.9  achieve a reversal of declining per capita in-
percent of the eligible debt ($5.3 billion). Some  come by 1995.
$3.3 billion was converted under a cash-buy-  Notwithstanding the political uncertainties
back option, while the remaining $2 billion was  and adverse economic situation of the West
exchanged for collateralized par bonds. In the  Africa subregion, some noteworthy efforts
spring of 1992, the Nigerian government took  were made during the past year, with assis-
measures to put its adjustment program back  tance from the Bank, to advance regional inte-
on track.                                  gration. The six countries (Cameroon, Central
In Ghana, macroeconomic indicators im-   African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial
proved in 1991. Growth of GDP was estimated  Guinea, and Gabon) of the Central African
at 5 percent (partly as the result of the effect of  Customs and Economic Union overhauled the
good weather on agricultural production), while  treaty arrangements governing the customs
the overall fiscal deficit and the inflation rate fell  union with a view to simplify, rationalize, and
significantly as compared with 1990 levels. Dur-  harmonize tariffs and indirect taxes.
ing the past eighteen months, the government  Other discussions were also initiated on
has taken major steps toward a more open   ways to advance regional integration. For ex-
political system and reaffirmed its commitment  ample, the seven states of the West African
to maintain the course of economic adjustment  Monetary Union (Benin, Burkina Faso, C6te
by introducing a set of initiatives designed to  d1voire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) be-
create a business environment more conducive  gan a process that would transform their mon-
for productive investment, especially from the  etary union into an economic one. This pro-
private sector. These measures served to   posal envisages the adoption of common key
broaden the tax base and accelerate restructur-  commercial regulations, the coordination of
ing of the financial system and regulatory  fiscal policies, and creation of a common mar-
framework.                                 ket. If carried through successfully, these ii-
In the Sahelian countries, the beneficial ef-  tiatives would strengthen the subregional insti-
fects of increased rainfall in 1991 were offset  tutional and policy frameworkof the CFA zone
by the constraining effects of lower commodity  and could reinforce national adjustment efforts.
prices, political transition, and internal adjust-  A review of economic developments in the
ment policies in a number of countries. The  subregions of Eastern, Central, and Southern
overall GDP growth rate was only 2.0 percent-  Africa reveals notable contrasts between the
below the average of 2.7 percent for the past  economic performance of countries that have
decade. Although modest, the export growth  enjoyed relative political and economic stabil-
rate, estimated at 3.3 percent in 1991, ex-  ity and those that have not. Stability has pre-
ceeded again the average growth in import  vailed in Mauritius and Botswana, by far the
volume, resulting in a further decrease in the  fastest-growing economies in Africa, with av-
aggregate current-account deficit to an esti-  erage annual GDP growth rates between 1980
mated 11.7 percent of GDP. In Senegal, satis-  and 1990 of 6 percent and II percent, respec-
factory progress has been made in the imple-  tively. This growth continued into 1991, as
mentation of its reform program. However,  GDP rose by 8.7 percent and 5 percent, respec-
reform in some key areas, such as the civil  tively, in Botswana and Mauritius, while per
service, labor-market regulations, and wage-  capita incomes rose by about 6 percent and 4
bill restraint, remains to be undertaken.  percent.
In C6te d'Ivoire, largest of the CFA coun-  Kenya has benefited, since its indepen-
tries, significant moves in the direction of  dence, from relative economic stability and the
democratization were accompanied by epi-   openness of its economy, as well as from
sodes of social unrest. Gross domestic product  economic policies that fostered a small but
declined for the fifth year in a row; the decline  steady growth in per capita income. Kenya has
in 1991 was about 2 percent. The protracted  experienced difficulties during the past two
recession was mainly the result of a 40 percent  years as a result of adverse external and do-
decline in the terms of trade between 1986 and  mestic factors, including the Gulf crisis, low
1990, combined with a substantial appreciation  international coffee prices, adverse climatic
of the real effective exchange rate, which has  conditions for agriculture, and the govern-
undermined the competitiveness of the Ivorian  ment's expansionary fiscal policies. Conse-
economy. In this difficult environment, how-  quently, major macroeconomic imbalances
ever, there were some recent positive develop-  have emerged that, combined with domestic


﻿Africa  115
and donor concerns about public-sector man-  South Africa is the most industrialized coun-
agement (especially in the areas of parastatal  try in sub-Saharan Africa, with a GDP equiv-
and civil-service reform, and public-expendi-  alent to about half that of the whole of sub-
ture rationalization) have constrained the pri-  Saharan Africa. It is also a major trading
vate sector's supply response to the govern-  partner for most of its neighboring countries.
ment's adjustment efforts.                Growth performance, however, has deterio-
In marked contrast, civil war and instability  rated over the past fifteen years, and real per
have undermined, over varying periods during  capita incomes have fallen by about 1.6 per-
the past decade, the possibilities for growth in  cent a year over the past decade. The economy
countries such as Angola, Ethiopia, Mozam-  is now in the throes of a deep recession, and
bique, Somalia, Sudan, and Uganda. How-   over 40 percent of the labor force is without
ever, the past year witnessed the end of war in  wage employment. The recession has been
Ethiopia and Angola, while renewed negotia-  exacerbated by both a lack of confidence on
tions between the government of Mozambique  the part of investors and the effect of financial
and the forces opposing it offer new hope of  sanctions. Domestic savings nevertheless re-
settlement there. Insecurity continues to in-  main at historical levels, and an external cur-
hibit development in Chad, Liberia, Somalia,  rent-account surplus has been maintained
and Sudan, however.                       since 1985. With a debt-to-GDP ratio of only 19
Zambia is another country in which extraor-  percent, South Africa is one of the least exter-
dinary political and economic developments  nally indebted developing countries. The chal-
took place during the past year. After long  lenge facing a new government will be to
negotiations, and with considerable help from  revive economic growth while facilitating a
donors, Zambia cleared its arrears with the  more equal income distribution and access to
Bank and reduced its arrears to the Interna-  publicly provided services.
tional Monetary Fund, with which it has
adopted a "rights-accumulation" program. At
the same time, one-party rule ended, and prep-  The Special Program of Assistance, now in
arations for multiparty elections were begun.  its second phase (SPA 11), continued to grow
In large part because of political pressures  stronger in 1991. The second phase was
related to these elections, the incumbent gov-  launched in October 1990 when eighteen do-
ernment was unable to adhere to its reform  nors pledged $7.4 billion in cofinancing and
program. This development, in turn, resulted  coordinated financing to be committed over
in a drop in donor assistance, new arrears in  three calendar years, 1991-93. By the end of
debt service, and a suspension in Bank dis-  1991, SPA donors had allocated some S4.5
bursements. Opposition leaders were swept  billion, or nearly 60 percent of the projected
into power in the country's first multiparty  residual financing gaps for 1991-93, for the
elections since the establishment of a one-  twenty-four then-eligible countries.
party system in the late 1960s. The new gov-  Given Africa's multifaceted development
ernment, having campaigned on a platform of  problems, SPA  donors have decided to
private-sector promotion, greater public-sector  broaden the scope of the SPA to include such
discipline and efficiency, and a greater reliance  key development issues as the linkages be-
on markets, moved quickly to implement its  tween adjustment and the planning, budgeting,
goals. Maize subsidies were cut dramatically,  and implementation of public-expenditure pro-
and the 1992 budget was based on a greatly  grams. At a meeting in October 1991, donors
reduced deficit. Once again, with the help of  endorsed recommendations of a working group
donors, Zambia cleared its arrears to the Bank,  that called for enhanced SPA donor participa-
an action that allowed Bank assistance to be  tion in public-expenditure reviews with a view
resumed and that laid the groundwork for  to reaching agreement with recipient countries
enhanced donor efforts to support the new  on public-expenditure priorities and strength-
government's strong commitment to reform.  ening donor support of these priorities. Recent
The evolution of events in South Africa in  SPA donor meetings have also focused atten-
the past eighteen months has been of extraor-  tion on the effect of adjustment programs on
dinary historical significance. South Africa has  poverty reduction and on how to ensure that
taken great strides toward the creation of a  structural adjustment and regional economic
consensus interim government, and accord-  integration are mutually supportive.
ingly, many internationally applied sanctions  At the April 1992 SPA meeting, donors were
against South Africa have been lifted. This  urged to increase their commitments and dis-
process is taking place in an environment char-  bursements to offset the severe effects of the
acterized by social unrest and economic stag-  drought in Eastern and Southern Africa and to
nation, however,                          meet the needs of two newly approved SPA


﻿116   1992 Regional Perspectives
countries, Equatorial Guinea and Sierra Leone  systems. The Bank's economic and sector
(which raised to twenty-six the number of  work is instrumental in providing a basis for
currently eligible countries). The SPA donors  initiating policy dialogue and formulating Bank
also approved guidelines for liberalizing im-  strategies, as well as for developing population
port-support programs in all SPA countries;  policies. This work has served to establish
these call for greater reliance on market mech-  more clearly the nexus of population, environ-
anisms and commercial procurement practices  mental, and agricultural issues and shoulc
by recipient countries in implementing these  serve to improve policies and programs in all
programs and for the donors, in turn, to relax  three of these areas.
the tying of their assistance and other restric-  The AIDS epidemic, the rising burden of
tions on the provision of import-support funds.  malaria, and the economic downturn have in-
Reducingcreased the urgency of coming to grips with
ReduingPovety,Africa's health problems. The Bank is helping
Developing the Social Sectors              African countries review and improve their
The Bank increasingly gives priority to ad-  health policies through its lending, sector stud-
dressing the closely related issues of poverty  ies, and policy analysis. A major study on
reduction and social-sector development in Af-  "Better Health in Africa" aims at generating a
rica. Some specific objectives of Bank activi-  new consensus on health strategies among
ties are:                                  African countries, donors, and international
* to increase investment in, and the effi-  institutions. Carried out in cooperation with
ciency of, human-resource development in or-  the World Health Organization and the United
der to reduce poverty and assure the availabil-  Nations Children's Fund, the study will assist
ity of human capital needed for sustained  African countries in reassessing their national
growth;                                    health policies and strategies and will establish
* to reduce the rate of population growth to  a new and common foundation on which donor
levels that will facilitate sustainable economic  support may be engaged at the country level.
development;                                 To help stem the spread of AIDS and assist
* to prepare African women for a larger role  African countries to respond to its social and
in development by improving their access to  economic consequences, the Bank is designing
the means of production and to improved ed-  country-specific multisectoral strategies. Work
ucational and health services; and         on the allocation of resources for AIDS in-
a to reduce food insecurity.             cludes methods to assess the prevalence of
The increased priority of poverty and social-  sexually transmitted disease-a key facilitator
sector development is reflected not only in  of AIDS transmission on which preventive
shifts in lending in favor of these areas but also  action is feasible. Bank-financed household
in the composition of the Bank's economic and  surveys in Tanzania have been designed to
sector work and in its aid-mobilization and  help assess the effect of adult mortality from
aid-coordination efforts.                  AIDS and other causes and to improve the
Population and health. Africa's high rate of  allocation of resources for prevention and
population growth continues to pose serious  care. Since 1987, the Bank has helped finance
threats and challenges to policymakers con-  health projects with AIDS-control or sexually
cerned with achieving political stability and  transmitted disease-prevention components in
sound economic development. Sub-Saharan    fifteen sub-Saharan countries.
Africa's average annual population growth rate  Education. Between 1970 and 1989, the
between 1980 and 1989 of 3.2 percent portends  number of students enrolled in African educa-
a demographic crisis that would exacerbate  tional institutions at all levels tripled to about
employment problems    (especially  among  65 million. The strong growth in enrollments,
youth), hinder poverty reduction, and accel-  however, hides severe disparities in enrollment
erate environmental degradation. Only in Bots-  levels among countries in the region, between
wana, Kenya, and Zimbabwe have family-     males and females, and between urban and
planning programs led to declines in fertility.  rural areas. The single most important chal-
The Bank's work on Africa's population   lenge to education in Africa today comes from
problems consists primarily of building com-  the sharp decline in its quality at all levels.
mitment and consensus among African policy-  The erosion of quality is attributable, in part
makers on the need for public action on popu-  at least, to rapidly expanding enrollments and
lation; translating population policies into  the need for fiscal austerity in the face of
effective programs; fostering African capaci-  economic difficulties. While Africa's explosive
ties to formulate and implement appropriate  population growth greatly increases the num-
policies and programs; and designing and in-  ber of children seeking access to schools,
stalling workable monitoring and evaluation  public spending on education in the region as a


﻿Africa  117
Table 6-3. Net Transfers to Africa
(millions of US dollars; fiscal years)
Nigeria           Sudan         C6te d'Ivoire     Total region
start            start            start            start
Item               1992  1992  1988-92  1992  1992  1988-92  1992  1992  1988-92  1992  1992  1988-92
IBRD and IDA
commitments
(undisbursed)   2,789             292              240             11,589
IBRD and IDA
commitments           236  3,237       16    333        465  1,023      3,974  18,321
Gross disbursements     345  1.583       66    463        259  1,062      2,550  12,912
Repayments              281  1,112       12    57         155   635         912  3,852
Net disbursements        64   471        55    406        104   427       1,638  9,061
Interest and charges    286  1,238        9     42        162   744        855   4,044
Net transfer           -222  -767        46    364        -58  -317        783   5,017
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
whole remained at just below 5 percent of GDP tion. The average per capita income of $340 in
through the 1980s. The scarcity of resources  1990 is exceeded by all the world's regions
for education has affected, in particular, sup-  except for South Asia. and only five current
plies of textbooks and other nonsalary inputs,  Bank  borrowers  (Botswana,  Cameroon,
especially at the primary level.              Congo, Gabon, and Mauritius) qualify for
The crisis in education is forcing African  IBRD (only) lending. Recent estimates indicate
governments to shift the emphasis of educa-  that the intensity of poverty is increasing, with
tional investment from access to quality and to  average incomes of the poor falling further
adjust to current demographic and fiscal reali-  below the poverty threshold. This deteriora-
ties. Partly through efforts of the Task Force of  tion is due to both external factors (mainly the
Donors to African Education, on which the     continued decline in the region's terms of
Bank has taken a lead role, African nations are  trade) and internal factors (drought, civil strife,
beginning to design, and seek donor support   and inappropriate policies).
for, comprehensive, country-specific programs   Taking these factors into  account, the
for the adjustment, revitalization, and selective  Bank's efforts to reduce poverty are based on
expansion of their education and training sys-  a five-pronged strategy:
tems. Adjustments are being made through        Poverty-conscious structural-adjustment pro-
cost containment, by requiring students to pay  grams. Any sustainable effort to reduce pov-
their fair share of educational costs, especially  erty in Africa needs to be based on efforts to
at the tertiary level, and by encouraging an  raise overall growth and incomes. Policy issues
increased role for nongovernmental educa-    related to achieving both growth and poverty
tional suppliers and private educational insti-  reduction are being addressed in adjustment
tutions. Revitalization efforts are geared to  programs (with a view toward shifting internal
renewing emphasis on basic cognitive skills  terms of trade toward the rural sector and
and on taking maximum advantage of the cur-  reducing income differentials between rich and
rent capacity of educational and training sys-  poor households within the urban sector, for
tems in the region. Expansion will be targeted  example). Where feasible, analyses of the ef-
on the long-term goal of universal primary    fect of public-expenditure programs on poor
education, technical and professional training,  households across sectors are being carried
and expansion of science and engineering pro-  out, and public-expenditure programs more
grams in higher education. Together, these    beneficial to the poor are being encouraged.
measures are expected to halt and reverse the   Social-action programs aimed at the poor
erosion in quality of education and training in  during adjustment. The Bank is intensifying
the region.                                   its collaboration with governments to design
Poverty reduction. Poverty is pervasive in  and support social-action programs aimed at
Africa. Recent estimates put the number of    protecting the poor who would otherwise be
poor at 228 million, compared with 191 million  adversely affected by structural-adjustment
in 1985, or more than half the region's popula-  programs. These programs, which may include


﻿118   1992 Regionai Perspectives
Box 6-1. AGETIP-A Promising New Weapon in the Fight against Poverty
For many years, the Bank struggled to find an  What has been achieved? In physical terms,
effective way of combating poverty in urban  the results have exceeded alt expectations. In its
areas. Inspired by Bank President Robert McNa-  first year of operation, AGETIP executed $8
mara's 1975 address to the Bank's Annual Meet-  million of works. This was achieved through 119
ings, the  Bank financed  sites-and-services  subprojects, using 78 small contractors and cre-
projects, squatter-settlement upgrading, and a  ating almost 2,000 manyears of employment. The
variety of other interventions aimed more or less  result was a direct and substantial impact on
directly at the urban poor. But these efforts  poverty through the generation of income and the
frequently suffered from delays and difficulties in  improvement of living conditions.
execution; they were never really replicable; and  Why is AGETIP successful? First, its private-
their ability to transmit benefits directly to the  sector management team actively seeks effi-
urban poor was often questionable.           ciency. As an example, it takes pride in paying
In 1989, the Bank decided to experiment with a  contractors in ten days compared with the
new approach that combined this focus on urban  months taken by public entities.
poverty with then-President Conable's initiative  Second, since it contracts engineering consult-
to develop the private sector.               ants and contractors on an "as-needed" basis, its
What would happen if it were possible to apply  overhead is extremely low: AGETIP's cost of
private-sector management practices to the pub-  business is a low 4.8 percent of its turnover.
lic-sector problem of rehabilitating deteriorating  Third, its private legal status absolves it from
urban infrastructure? What would happen if the  the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures that
execution of subprojects could be transferred  the public sector must follow. Nonetheless, it has
from inefficient public agencies to dynamic small  maintained a higher standard of rigor, discipline,
firms in the private sector? What would happen if  and transparency than is typically achieved in
the managers of projects could be liberated from  public entities
the cumbersome red tape of public institutions?  In addition to the direct benefits that stem from
The Senegalese government accepted the chal-  its urban-rehabilitation operations, the AGETIP
lenge of working with the Bank to answer these  approach has created a number of indirect bene-
questions. A specialized agency was established  fits. The "contracting-out" approach creates de-
to undertake contract management on behalf of  mand for the services of local contracting and
the government: AGETIP (Agence d'exdcution   consulting industries, stimulating their develop-
de projets d'intdr& publique, or Agency for the  ment. AGETIP currently has 680 local contrac-
Execution of Works in the Public Interest).  tors and 260 local consultants on its roster.
AGETIP is a private, not-for-profit company-a  There are also important nonquantifiable ef-
nongovernmental organization. Its mission is to  fects. Since workers tend to spend their money
undertake "general contracting" commissions  close to home, there are multiplier effects on the
from public entities such as municipalities or  local economy. And last, but far from least, the
ministries. AGETIP undertakes all the tasks as-  success of AGETIP acts as a spur to other
sociated with getting the job done. And get the  agencies to improve their own performance.
job done it does.                              Imitation, it is said, is the sincerest form of
It hires consultants to prepare designs and  flattery. And AGETIP has many imitators. Sim-
bidding documents and to supervise works; it  ilar agencies have been established in Benin,
issues calls for bids, evaluates and adjudicates  Burkina Faso, Mali, and Niger. One is under
the bids, and signs the contracts. It evaluates  preparation in Mauritania. and others are under
progress, pays the contractors, and represents  consideration in Malawi and as far away as Papua
the owner at the final handover of works.    New Guinea.
labor-intensive public-works projects such as   design of effective country-specific poverty-
the AGETIP project in Senegal (see Box 6-1),   reduction strategies. It is expected that pov-
are at various stages of design and implemen-   erty assessments will have been completed for
tation in twenty countries and will be expanded  most countries of the region by the end of fiscal
over time.                                      1994.
Assistance to governments to increase their     Work on food-security issues. Food security
capacity to assess and monitor poverty. The     is a central part of the Bank's poverty-reduc-
capacity of governments to monitor poverty     tion strategy in the region. Persistent droughts
through household surveys and analyses of the   and famines have contributed to severe prob-
implications of policy reforms on the poor is  lems of malnutrition in many areas. To address
being strengthened. These data and analyses,    these and other issues of food security, Bank-
assembled in the form of poverty assessments    supported work is under way in nineteen coun-
and poverty profiles, provide a basis for the   tries; in eleven of these, food-security projects


﻿Africa  119
are either ongoing, in preparation, or being  well as to credit, inputs, extension, and train-
considered. Under the Bank's initiative, a  ing in the all-important agricultural sector-
number of technical and financial agencies are  where women are estimated to produce 80
preparing a major nutrition program for Nige-  percent of the food grown in Africa-would
ria. That country's national food and nutrition  have a major, positive impact on development.
committee has prepared a three-year work   The Bank is pursuing country-specific and sec-
program for the design of a national program,  tor-specific  gender-responsive  development
development of a national policy, and prepara-  strategies and programs through studies on pol-
tion of a freestanding nutrition project for Bank  icy issues, through staff training to ensure that
financing. In addition, three food-security  operational work has an increasingly positive
projects were approved in fiscal 1992-for  effect on women, and through operational ac-
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, and for Rwanda-    tivities that focus on preparing country-specific
and food security was a major component in  gender-issues papers to lay the foundation for
projects approved for Malawi and Zimbabwe.  gender-responsive country-action plans.
A major study on food aid (Food Aid in Africa:
an Agenda for the 1990s), carried out jointly
with the World Food Programme, was pub-      The Bank's overall lending program for sub-
lished in 1992.                            Saharan Africa has been increasing steadily in
Gender-responsive development. It is in-  recent years, from an average $2.0 billion over
creasingly recognized that development in  the fiscal 1983-87 period to $3.8 billion during
Africa cannot succeed without the full partici-  the fiscal 1990-92 period. Total commitments
pation of women. Improving women's living  in fiscal 1992 were $3,767 million about 81
and working conditions, by improving their  percent of this amount was in the form of
access to education and health services, as  concessional assistance from IDA.


﻿120   1992 Regional Perspectives
East Asia and Pacific
For the East Asia and Pacific region, 1991  e charting an effective path of transition
was another year of strong performance (see  from  highly centrally planned to market-
Figure 6-1). Aggregate growth in gross domes-  oriented economies;
tic product (GDP) was 6.8 percent, thus con-  *addressing issues of the sustainability of
tinuing the region's thirty-year performance of  growth and welfare improvement in high-
doubling GDP every decade, reducing poverty,  growth economies; and
and improving social indicators.              *tackling the growing environmental prob-
The economic picture was not, however,    lems that are affecting most countries in the
uniformly uplifting, and rapid growth cannot  region.
be expected to be sustained indefinitely with-  East Asia's Success: Private/Public
out continuous improvements in development
policy. Among the areas of concern are:
*generating growth momentum    in those     At the beginning of 1991, there were reasons
economies that have failed to share in the  to temper the optimism usually associated with
region's prosperity and in its ability to reduce  the region. Growth of world trade, which is so
the incidence of poverty;                   crucial for the outward-oriented economies of
East Asia, was slowing. Growing protection-
ism in some industrialized countries and slow
progress in the GATT negotiations were mat-
Table 6-4. East Asia and Pacific:           ters of serious concern. China's austerity pro-
1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of       gram was in full swing, and efforts continued to
Countries that Borrowed during Fiscal       address the overheating of the economy wit-
Years 1994-92                               nessed in previous years. After three years of
Perdouble-digit growth, the economies of Malay-
Perltin   GNPbi  sia and Thailand were beginning to display
Population"  GNP5
Country              (thousands) (US dollars)  signs of overheating and of supply-side bottle-
Chin       1 13,68     370       necks, particularly in the area of transportation
China                 1133,683    370       and in the availability of skilled labor. Both
Fiji                      744    1,780      countries were affected by the uncertainties
Indonesia              178,232    570       about energy prices that accompanied the Gulf
Korea, Republic of      42,793   5,400      crisis. Despite Indonesia's successful adjust-
Lao People's Democratic                     ment in the 1980s, concerns over macroeco-
Republic               4,140     200      nomic stability, based largely on the rapid
Malaysia                17,861   2,320
Maldives                  14      450       private-sector response to structural reforms
Maldies        21      450       that led to a surge in imports and investment.
Mongolia                 2,100    n.a.      were beginning to reemerge. The Philippines
Papua New Guinea         3,915    860       had been severely affected by a string of natu-
Philippines             61,480    730       ral disasters and by the Gulf crisis through a
Thailand                55,801   1,420      drop in workers' remittances from the Gulf
Tonga                      99    1,010
Tonga99               1 010      area and an increase in oil prices; in the Re-
Vanuatu                   151    1,100      public of Korea, rapidly rising labor costs were
Western Samoa             165     730       eroding its export competitiveness; and in
NOTE: The 1990 estimates of GNP per capita presented  Papua New Guinea, recessionary pressures,
above are from the "World Development Indicators"  which had begun in the wake of a sharp decline
section of World Development Report 1992.   in output in 1989, had not yet eased.
n.a. Not available.
a. Estimates froi                             All these concerns were stood on their head,
so to speak, as the overall economic perfor-
b. World Bank Atlas methodology, 1988-90 base period.  mance of the region turned out to be even more


﻿East Asia and Pacific  121
impressive than in 1990. Malaysia and Korea
led the way, with GDP growth rates of 8.8
Figure 6-1. Growth in East Asia          percent and 8.7 percent, respectively. China,
and Pacific, 1980-91                     Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and Thailand
were close behind, with rates of growth rang-
Output growth (percent)                 ing from 6.4 percent to 8.2 percent. Inflation
12 _________________                     was in single digits for all these countries.
Even in a year that saw little growth in world
trade, these six countries experienced double-
10 _______________                       digit growth in export volume.
Progress in reducing poverty is difficult to
monitor on a year-to-year basis. However, the
most recent analysis suggests that, for the
8                                       region as a whole, the proportion of the popu-
lation below the poverty line is about I I per-
cent. Rapid growth and emphasis on social
6                                       development in Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia,
and Thailand have combined to reduce the
absolute number of people living in poverty. In
4-                                      these countries, however, problems of income
disparity have not improved significantly. Pov-
erty remains widespread in the Philippines and
2           F--is becoming problematic in the three Indocht-
- I  -~nese states and Mongolia, which are in the
-                      process of opening up their economies to mar-
0-                                      ket forces. Progress in reducing poverty has
-           also slowed in China.
East Asia De-, eoiring  Wcorli        Pragmatism and flexibility have been the
arid Pacicil  W0.3                  hallmarks of policymaking in most East Asian
economies. Thus, both Thailand and Malaysia
Expon gir.,reir, ipetizenhi              responded quickly to oil-price rises: Thailand,
12                                       an oil importer, by raising fuel prices, and
Malaysia. an oil exporter. by increasing its oil
___                      production to meet regional demand. Malaysia
10 ___-___________                       also accelerated plans for recovering gas de-
posits located off the west coast of the penin-
sula. To guard against economic overheating,
8        -   ___-_____                  monetary authorities in both countries tight-
ened credit and the money supply and im-
[  __________________________proved tax-collection machinery. The agility of
6               _   _    _the Indonesian authorities was particularly im-
-                           pressive: When deregulation looked like it
might lead to an excessive expansion of do-
4         -mestic and foreign borrowings, the authorities
moved swiftly to curtail domestic monetary
expansion and scale down public-investment
2       J          -   ~      programs and external borrowings. The Chi-
2                             nese authorities also succeeded in correcting
L        i      overheating without causing a recession and
I   -7 _    -~       resumed their policy reforms after the consol-
0                                       idation process.
The response of the East Asian countries to
East Asi,a De,,eoping  kNorbci       the sluggish growth of world trade was another
and Pacifil:  Woicl                  example of their flexibility. Growth in world
trade in 1991, of 3.0 percent, was down sharply
1 1980-90   1 1991                      from 5.0 percent in 1990. The United States,
the biggest market for East Asian products,
Source: World Development Report 1992   was in recession, and U.S. imports from the
and World Bank staff estimates.         region in 1991 rose by only 7.3 percent, much
lower than the historical average. Neverthe-


﻿122   1992 Regional Perspectives
less, the region managed to achieve an impres-  small Pacific island countries present a special
sive growth rate of exports (in excess of 10  problem and were the subject of a regional
percent) by increasing intraregional trade.   study by the Bank (see Box 6-2). Although
Moreover, this restructuring of trade was done  Papua New Guinea achieved a high rate of
largely in a market-oriented manner without   growth in 1991 (7.8 percent), it faces continu-
creating regional preferences or erecting insti-  ing difficulties in staying competitive as its
tutional barriers to external trade. For longer-  mineral income puts upward pressure or
run sustainability of export-oriented growth,  wages beyond improvements in labor produc-
increasing attention is being given to special  tivity, which is constrained by inadequate
measures to promote trade and investment. At  skills and infrastructure. The Lao People's
a recent summit of heads of government of     Democratic Republic (Lao PDR). Myanmar,
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations    and Viet Nam had only moderate growth in per
(ASEAN),' an agreement was reached to form capita income. Mongolia's trade was disrupted
an ASEAN free-trade area (AFTA) and virtu-    by the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and, as
ally eliminate tariff and nontariff barriers for  a result, the economy experienced severe dif-
goods (except for nonprocessed agricultural   ficulties.
products) traded within ASEAN over a fifteen-   Among the larger economies, the Philippines
year period.                                  faced the most difficult situation. Economic
The 1991 experience confirms the general    developments in both 1990 and t991 were
preference of policymakers in the region for  affected by severe, adverse shocks: the July
approaches based on partnership between the
government and the private sector.
Prosperity Not Shared by All
The picture of the region's economic perfor-  Members are Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines.
mance is not monochromal, however. The         Singapore. and Thailand.
Table 6-5. Lending to Borrowers in East Asia and Pacific, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1983-92
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                          1983-87    1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
Agriculture and Rural
Development                    641.2    1,108.9    459.6     743.0    1,374.7    836.7
Development Finance Companies    267.6        -      764.0      65.0     150.0       -
Education                        298.6     351.5     170.3     434.4     592.0     474.t
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal              160.4       63.0      -       860o       -       100.0
Power                          484.5     431.0     846.5     813.0     275.0    1,745.9
Industry                          76.7     425.7     421.0O      3.0     511.0      82.7
Nonproject                       275.6     500.0     390.0     250r0    250.0      70.0
Population, Health, and Nutrition  62.1       -      165.6       -       164.0     129.6
Public-sector Management            -         -        -         -        32.0       -
Small-scale Enterprises          133.7        -      160.0       -       140.0       -
Technical Assistance              18. -               -         -        30.0      17.0
Telecommunications                 6.2        -       12.7     391.7       -       375.0
Transportation                   613.4     993.5     720.4     504.7     323.6   1,122.5
Urban Development                30i.9     340.0       -        86.2     543.1     228.0
Water Supply and Sewerage         1 10.9      -        -       349.0      177.8    275.0
Total                           3,450.8   4,213.6   4,110.1   3,726.0  4,563.2   5,456.5
Of which: IBRD                2,988.1   3,496.6   3,520.8   3,066.8   3,471.0   4,386.9
IDA                    462.7     717.0    589.3     659.2    1,092.2   1,069.6
Number of operations            40        40        39        36        39       46
- Zero.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.


﻿East Asia and Pacific  123
Box 6-2. Pacific Island Member Countries
It e PCit Ire i itIhe %I. Pa%ii e -I rid memiber I I particular, the islandsiniArd-orientedde-
:iilkl!it  f the Ban*-Fi Krih,i  solonion  --e--tinent strategies haveziotbeen conducive
1iarnJ. i-ng., lnLi,IN and  kteiein ;ano.-  i' veonomicgrowth. Although macroeconoific
pro-ide- .1 cod eNlInple it tie kind OfLIL .ri  iiigerneni n mo-i u0iifiC b.10 ben -ound
rneni chaliercc'. iicd  '  -n.dl 1-larid  ountric  .nd  tri  n2ed  for rsiIi  r dun'  imed  it cncoi-
oI the  Pacitc  ' litho .ih  ihe  -I,  ounirie, h...k  a-,ig  efiienh  pri.  i.-t O I  cr 1  h h -e in
reliiiel filth  faild.i'd,ol wb. ri!-.. ,h p ir '  jn e   pnotrr--  in  ivl  diieelion  ha%
r.A nNP rnanrnc roni 'l -I. in F i .  in n htle  ee   ieen do.. Pe-iie d'm-ii
%.:Iorion I Lind.  r  I* .ind  oo.d  indicai..  riiiitt  r h. r ec
th.tf  onp.are  fa.ooabi.  '1.   de.elopin.  .,,un-  Pcion. ihe.  ha.c  hd  lic  nceruie  Ic. pi%v
Ine,  .1i  lh.  same  %ii  higher  lec' cl t r-r tnitid,railin  ti  eiiiicnc,.  it.arrii  rhizli  in  hit
income  their gro.i perf..rriinje dun ihe  it eompctc in he  ord ri,kct, Al ili aiic
viSii  a a0 d1 appo.iinc  .- a nrouip. th--c Loun-  uiz.  -crvt.r.c11,111  ha i   coriir.incd  ihe
Ice ret orrdld afl '.crage enrw.. ih rac in reat ODP  itrc C  i .dnn  r ie-eo  '
of  onl'%  4  perccrit  .\  .I lel-r.  per  c.iPIan  conr cyIank.C. pot.nui forcivi in.e  ior, hov  ef
inconic rei.ained e  CilI \ tinthainged dutn.ll.  up icraiw, in iha courle% -%here tt' hu
ihe  pat dt -de  Ir  halp  c.i.r,ai it, %i*nitit anT  ne-  .,r  rvnnicni  ,  nore  atrOCIP-e
irne.rae  in  per  i inc.1 nit.  ot ci.mp:irahic  FhC..r. lb P .it ii  I he Sour h P0ioii  ck-ur
0C.untrIc  in ffhe (  iiltbe.in Ii:ro'ind 4 pcr  ri  Ind  i1 I   'i"-iriJI  i tn. .u niior tirnrIunt
in rhe  Ind.rn  1t cn  ourantlmic  .  .1,ildic c n,' and          t,, 'eC -r  i
.J  Lil|  for-tlind  4 perceni              . hichvi gioa th  P.lh dirinihL rcnl.irrder Lit ihe
B.  the  i.,ndo d.  iTe  h.i.ade  de. .iI-ininrcad. . i-oorlani  h.lntt  311 Undei . a
%%.rld  the c%lernnl en' ironmenli 1tr r he  %\  P.,  'n  0rie  tt.nil e-  In  Fit  %o  cNarnplc  polid\
ri  ''land         rcounwric ..  r 'e . l. ft rablt  in  -diu'mieni-  to  inipr .'  e%pt  -1nipeliti' crie-
lte  i   d...  the rerrn i f ir.iJe. lhough %iijailic.  nd  pronioie  pri.ie--c,tof  di-e oi ent
remained riouchl% urchirictd o,ei the de,ade  heipCd ho-i he Lro.. ia  1--i aboul h pcromi
1he-c  counile,  benciied  Ir:.ni high  lei.el-  of  e.r .1%v e hK  p.I  hi t v..r  If the-e polwec,
e  ierraol > itarrn  e. enahlint thcrri t.   Co e  the-i  re  u%iained  id toip i nien i - ri fouLIC% f,
donie-1 -C I-ifle Iap-. mainlain hich in -t  humanire-our e dc1ciopn1vit irid If ,
rnent it  inl  relall'rc  1T  CDP  .,nd  . i tid he.  .. %eltit ni ti il  n  irincd  Fir  hL ild  it
e ir .il debt-  Nori,kith tandifn  he   fator-hic  lt  ,cCtJre  i rapid  iaic  i  et1noriii  Ort- ih
f-:in-, .a  runbe r m  inipeditrivni  lo..edl the,  ihr1i1hiii  ithe  14,1
Cc-noirlt gr ith Fir;l ibe-t colini ie -ullered        v in oneedtol, Lo promiOlt
irom  trequent n Iul1i  a diaterc. %%ith con%cqu.n ete    and  pr ale-wooi d ei,irient
.id'.e'C tilp.iaci on eeonorric loo th 'Sccond  in dc, eul"rLd %coiowl,i enirontcnr. logerthe
poilli. a l Jc.elopmenl  in  .ornre  "inin e- l;.   Ib  'ripilii : roie%e.  idet elr  hinlin  rc-
IUpied ek ononiie peirforian,-e  hilld mii rn  ourcc' arid ci-effceiv e -n,1rlulwn- the o1htr
.e-tnier  concenir.aed  oi1 t*iidinL  i      - nint   rh  1i0LIP  Can  J1s..r  IJe1im  C a  .irm
and  o i iLI  infra iIcir cIT .  - th Ilinuted  outpui  pat  tl  -iin ri .i  in  the
Cain, in  the  hort Terr  Finaii  priaiec  in'.,t:t-
ITrin  iI the  prLdu:11  it cir-r %\a, e%ee dinli k
I.eak. %-r-it. par l,  to  the  latk  of a iiipporil.e
Pi I,, n                                       artcunairent and 1ans i wcn,rc if d  d noine de-
gr,,.i..ih  ;iralcgi'.                         11t.  % r.hn,i Ia ..t   iave It.  .een ir N duciv
1990 earthquake, which killed nearly 1,600      only 0.7 per cent. Inflation temporarily accel-
people and wiped out assets valued at I per-    erated to about 16 percent before declining to
cent of GNP. the Gulf crisis, which added       single-digit levels late in the year. The Philip-
some $400 million to the country's bill for     pines has many strengths: a highly educated
imported oil and which displaced Filipinos      labor force, well-established access to the U.S.
working in the Middle East; the June 1991       market, and a sustained program of structural
eruption of Mount Pinatubo; and the Novem-      reforms. However, the country faces substan-
her 1991 typhoon in the Eastern Visayas that    tial constraints such as low levels of domestic-
triggered massive mudflows, killing some 4,000  resource mobilization, a heavy burden of
people. Although an effective stabilization pro-  foreign debt, rising domestic debt, and, despite
gram was implemented in 1991 (which had the     some reduction in absolute numbers since
intended effect of reducing the country's fiscal  1986. widespread poverty in urban and rural
and current-account deficits), GDP growth was   areas.


﻿124   1992 Regional Perspectives
I
244
yz                                       7
Harvesting rice in Indonesia. Economic growth in the East Asia and Pacific region was impressive in 1991,
inflation was low, and growth in export volume was in double digits.
Socialist Economies in Transition            the exception of Mongolia, these policies stim-
ulated a good supply response in 1991. Differ-
The region includes four socialist econ-   ent policies have been adopted on price re-
omies-China, Lao People's Democratic Re-    form, however: China is following a two-track
public, Mongolia, and Viet Nam-that are in  approach, keeping part (declining over time) of
the process of becoming more market-         production at government-determined prices
oriented. Each has followed a different path of  and allowing market forces to determine prices
change. Over the past twelve years, China has  for the rest of production. Mongolia has de-
followed a gradual approach toward reform,   dared its intention to liberalize the prices of
while Viet Nam, faced with severe external   most commodities and to deregulate its trade
shocks, has had to make sharp adjustments.   and distribution systems. Lao PDR and Viet
All four countries are implementing policies  Nam have implemented programs of radical
of liberalization in the agricultural sector: with  price liberalization that have freed virtually all


﻿East Asia and Pacific  125
prices, raised interest rates, and devalued the  difficulties in 1990 and 1991 resulting from the
exchange rate.                             cut-off of Soviet aid, which once totaled $1
Policy differences among the four countries  billion a year. The industrial sector stagnated,
are most significant with regard to state-owned  and inflation accelerated to the 60 percent-
enterprises (SOEs).                        to-70 percent range. Still, GDP, buoyed by
China has thus far followed a two-pronged  expanding agricultural output, growth in the
approach of encouraging nonstate enterprises  services sector, and a vigorously emerging
to emerge in fields not monopolized by the  private sector, grew about 3 percent in 1991.
SOEs and of reforming the SOEs. Indeed, the  Lao PDR, benefiting from substantial external
source of vigorous growth in the coastal prov-  assistance, succeeded in maintaining GDP
inces of Guangdong, Fujian, Zhejiang, and  growth of about 5 percent in 1991, and inflation
Jiangsu has been the dynamic nonstate sector  declined to 10 percent. down from 68 percent
that is made up of collectives, joint ventures,  in 1989.
foreign ventures, and individual enterprises.  Reforming SOEs is the central challenge for
(The GDP of Guangdong, which borders Hong  China and Viet Nam. Despite continuing bud-
Kong, grew by an estimated 13 percent in 1991,  getary subsidies and bank credit, SOE output
while the national economy grew at a little  and employment growth in China remain rela-
more than half that rate.) Mongolia has an-  tively sluggish, unsold production is accumu-
nounced its intention to privatize almost all  lating in warehouses, indebtedness is mount-
small state enterprises and has completed  ing, and at least three of every ten SOEs are
preparations for the privatization of large ones.  losing money (the government estimates that
Lao PDR is also following a policy of fairly  its SOEs ran up losses totaling $5.7 billion in
rapid privatization-the number of state enter-  1991). The Chinese authorities now recognize
prises is to be reduced from 640 to around 30  that, ultimately, state firms can only be fully
over a ten-year period. Viet Nam is now ready  exposed to hard budget constraints, with atten-
to speed up enterprise reform after having  dant bankruptcies and unemployment, to the
reduced direct subsidies to enterprises and  extent that their 100 million-strong work force
restrained their access to bank credit.    is freed from its dependence on the "work
These reforms are influenced as much by   unit" for housing, pensions, and income secur-
initial country conditions and associated exter-  ity. This realization has led the government to
nal shocks as by the nature of the reforms  pursue programs of housing reform   and
themselves. China's reforms have been the  schemes for communitywide pension pooling
longest lasting and the most successful in stim-  and unemployment insurance. Plans have also
ulating growth and productivity without sacri-  been announced to create selected "enterprise
ficing stability or equity. During 1987-88, when  groups" through the merger of SOEs that cut
growth soared to double-digit levels, the Chi-  across geographical and administrative bound-
nese economy began to experience inflationary  aries and permit labor redeployment to be
pressures. However, by late 1989, macroeco-  internalized. Such measures will take time to
nomic stability was largely restored, and this  bear fruit, and, in the short term, the authori-
stability was sustained through 1991.      ties are resigned to the necessity of providing
In Mongolia, the government's reform pro-  further financial injections to the SOE sector.
gram was launched in the face of several     In Viet Nam, the SOEs receive indirect
external shocks: a sharp decline in Soviet aid,  subsidies and are thus a cause of unacceptably
collapse of trade among members of the social-  high rates of inflation. In early 1992 the gov-
ist trading block, poor market conditions for  ement indicated a new willingness to move
Mongolia's main hard-currency exports-     rapidly with enterprise reform and requested
cashmere, wool, and leather products-and a  foreign technical assistance to help accelerate
poor harvest. These shocks contributed to a  the process. Factors that constrain the govern-
sharp deterioration in Mongolia's economic  ment from moving rapidly on this front include
situation. In 1991, external trade fell drasti-  the country's mounting unemployment prob-
cally, and shortages of key imported inputs,  lem and a lack of resources to build a well-
along with frequent electricity outages, led to a  targeted safety-net mechanism for displaced
sharp decline in GDP. Government efforts to  workers. Key to addressing these problems
pursue a tight monetary policy were hurt by an  effectively is Viet Nam's ability to link up with
inability to reduce the budget deficit in 1991,  the global economy and receive external assis-
and, in stark contrast to decades-long price  tance.
stability prior to 1990, inflation rates soared
into the 120 percent-to-150 percent range.
Viet Nam, after achieving satisfactory rates  The region's rapidly growing economies
of growth in both 1988 and 1989, also faced  share a major concern: how to make such


﻿126   1992 Regional Perspectives
Table 6-6. Net Transfers to East Asia and Pacific
(millions of US dollars; fiscal years)
China             Korea           Indonesia       Total region
start             start            start            start
Item              1992  1992 1988-92 1992 1992 1988-92 1992 1992 1988-92 1992 1992 1988-92
IBRD and IDA
commitments
(undisbursed)   4,820              608              4,660           13,510
IBRD and IDA
commitments           2,526  7,738       220    993     1,587  7,873      5,457  22,069
Gross disbursements     1,371  5,545      150   1,341     1043  6,361      3,612  17,606
Repayments               160   632        425   3,523      630   2.621      1,958  10,952
Net disbursements       1,211  4,913     -274 -2,182        413  3,741      1,654  6,654
Interest and charges     270   989         226  1,461       816  3,538      1,918  9,106
Net transfer             941  3,924      -500 -3,643       -403   203       -264  -2,452
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
growth sustainable over the long run. Most    commensurate with the region's leadership
recognize that the process of structural reform  role in economic adjustment. Serious concerns
must be maintained. These countries also      are mounting about urban pollution and con-
know that they must confront those public-    gestion, waste disposal, depletion  of re-
policy issues-provision of infrastructural fa-  sources, and poor forest-management policies.
cilities and expansion of human skills, for   In many East Asian cities, levels of hazardous
instance-that are key to sustaining growth    particulate matter and sulfur dioxide in the air
over the long term as countries move up the   exceed World Health Organization standards
technology ladder. The fact that structural   for as many as 100 days a year, the level of
reforms have secured public support and that a  heavy metal and organic wastes in many rivers
consensus has been reached in favor of their  is well above accepted standards, and ground-
continuation should make the process sustain-  water resources are overused and are being
able. Efforts are now increasingly being fo-  contaminated by pollutants seeping in from the
cused on longer-term issues in Indonesia, Ma-  surface.
laysia, and Thailand.                           Pressure on the region's natural resources,
In Indonesia, increasing attention was paid  particularly forest resources, is intense and
in 1991 to building efficiency in the transport,  growing. In the past ten years, deforestation
power, and telecommunications sectors and to  has been most extensive in Viet Nam, followed
developing human-resource skills, and the gov-  by Thailand and the Philippines. Although Fiji,
ernment's development-expenditure program     Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, and
has been increased in these areas. In recogni-  the Solomon Islands still have a large propor-
tion of the magnitude of the effort required,  tion of land area left in natural forests, certain
greater private provision of what, in the past,  quarters have expressed concern over threats
had been exclusively public services is being  to these areas, mainly from indiscriminate log-
encouraged through regulatory reforms. Ma-    ging and agricultural encroachment. Indiscrim-
laysia's sixth five-year plan (1991-95) details  mate felling of the rainforests is taking place in
what major public investments in infrastruc-  some parts of Southeast Asia as a result of a
ture, human resources, and other sectors are  ban on logging in Thailand and the consequent
needed to permit the country to realize growth  expansion of logging in Cambodia, Lao PDR,
through technology-based industrial produc-   Myanmar, and Viet Nam.
tion rather than from exploitation of natural   The past year witnessed a sharply growing
resources. Similarly, Thailand's seventh five-  concern about environmental issues in the re-
year plan, launched in 1991, emphasizes devel-  gion. In Thailand, new life was breathed into a
opment of infrastructure and human resources;  costly program aimed at alleviating Bangkok's
the plan also seeks to bring a better regional  notorious urban congestion and pollution prob-
and social balance to the development process.  lems when the government acted to bring proj-
Partersip fr Btte Envronentect costs in line with financing. Action plans-
Partnership for Better Environmenta                              Bank-financed   highway
East Asia's record in protecting and improv-  project-were introduced to deal with harmful
ing the environment has come a long way,      atmospheric pollution caused by vehicle emis-


﻿East Asia and Pacific  127
sions, and, as a first step, the government  Lending operations in China and Indonesia
arranged for the successful introduction of  accounted for about 75 percent of the total.
lead-free gasoline in major urban areas. In  Commitments to the Philippines totaled $430.3
Malaysia, major programs for environmental  million. Lending operations have stabilized in
monitoring and environmental improvements,  recent years in mature borrowers such as Thai-
covering issues relating to pricing policies,  land and Malaysia; lending levels in those
institutional development, and investments for  countries during the year were in the $200
controlling urban and industrial pollution, were  million-to-$300 million range. In Korea, the
introduced. In Indonesia, policy focused on  government and the Bank have agreed to phase
strengthening the regulatory institutions re-  out Bank lending by fiscal 1995. During the
sponsible for reducing urban and industrial  phase-out period, lending will average between
pollution.                                $300 million and $400 million annually, and
China, because of its size, as well as the  loan amounts will progressively diminish. Dur-
depth of its environmental problems, presents  ing this period, lending will concentrate on the
the region's most serious environmental chal-  social sectors, social infrastructure, small and
lenge. Levels of air and water pollution in  medium industry, the environment, and other
some of its major cities are among the highest  areas that have been neglected.
in the world. Depending inevitably on coal as a  In the other economies of the region, which
major energy source, China faces a tremen-  accounted for 2 percent of the year's lending,
dous challenge in finding effective ways to  Bank resources devoted to policy work are on
improve the environment through reducing  the rise. In Viet Nam, projects are being pre-
emissions of "greenhouse" gases. The Chi-  pared in several key sectors such as agricul-
nese authorities are actively engaged in tack-  ture, transport, and education. Bank staff have
ling these issues. Over the past decade, China  worked with the Vietnamese government in
has set up comprehensive environmental laws  preparing sector studies on agriculture and
and regulations, as well as an impressive insti-  food; transportation; energy; education; popu-
tutional network for policy enforcement and  lation, health, and nutrition; and the financial
monitoring. In 1991, the government marked  sector. In addition, in collaboration with the
the tenth anniversary of the passage of its  International Monetary Fund, the Bank is ad-
National Environment Protection Law by    vising the government on monetary, fiscal, and
strengthening further the law's provisions for  trade reforms. In Lao PDR and Mongolia, the
on-site enforcement and by introducing new  Bank's role is a broad one, encompassing
measures to prohibit the use of heavily pollut-  resource transfers, economic and sector anal-
ing industrial technology. China also ratified  ysis, policy advice, technical assistance, and
the Montreal Protocol on Substances That  training.
Deplete the Ozone Layer, opening the way for  Relatively few adjustment operations have
assistance from the Bank and other interna-  been designed for countries in the region. The
tional agencies in developing strategies and  reasons are twofold: East Asian economies
investment programs for the phase-out of chlo-  have been relatively free of balance-of-
rofluorocarbons and other chlorine-based and  payments crises; in addition, the emphasis of
bromine-based chemicals.                  the Bank on policy dialogue, through its eco-
Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992              nomic and sector work, has enabled policy
reforms to be supported through investment
Through its lending and policy advice, the  lending.
Bank continued to play an active role in pro-  Only one adjustment loan was approved
moting development through structural re-  during the year-to Lao PDR in support of
forms and private-sector development; in ad-  programs of privatization, public-investment
dition, long-term constraints on development  reform, and social-sector improvements. In the
were addressed through operations designed to  first full year of Mongolia's membership, an
reduce poverty, develop infrastructure, and  economic report was prepared, and two oper-
protect the environment.                  ations, totaling $35 million, were approved-
During fiscal 1992. commitments by the  for economic rehabilitation and for technical
Bank amounted to $5,457 million, an amount  assistance designed to strengthen new institu-
19 percent higher than in the previous year.  tions of macroeconomic management.


﻿128    1992 Regional Perspectives
South Asia
A fifth of the world's population lives in the  India's record of 5.3 percent was also notewor-
countries of South Asia (Afghanistan, Bang-      thy. But performance was noticeably weaker
ladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri  in Bangladesh, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. Except
Lanka). Economic growth during the 1980s in      in Sri Lanka, population growth rates re-
these countries was modest but respectable.      mained high during the decade, slowing in-
Nonetheless, incomes remain low, and large       creases in per capita incomes.
numbers of South Asians-estimated at be-           At the start of the 1990s, South Asia's econ-
tween 310 million and 560 million in 1990,2 or   omies appeared poised to continue expanding
half the worldwide total of poor people-con-     at the steady, if unspectacular, rate of the past
tinue to live in poverty, with inadequate access  decade. The GDP in Bangladesh, India, and Sri
to basic social services, and lack employment    Lanka, in fact, grew quite rapidly during 1990
and other income-generating opportunities.       partly as a result of bumper harvests. The
Because of rapid population growth, averaging    region's economies suffered from the effects of
2.4 percent a year, pressure on already over-    the oil shock in late 1990 and the political
stretched public services is likely to mount,    upheavals in 1991 in the Soviet Union, which
implying that governments will be under even     sharply diminished traditional export markets
more pressure in the 1990s to deliver rising     for some countries, notably India. The cumu-
standards of living.                             lative result is that GDP growth in 1991 was
Regionalforecast to have averaged only 2.8 percent, and
ReginalIssus i Perpeciveexpectations are for continued slow growth in
During the past decade, South Asian coun-      1992. India was particularly hard hit, and GDP
tries encountered their share of the difficulties  is projected to have grown only 2.5 percent in
that faced most of the developing world. None-   1991.
theless, real growth of gross domestic product     The external shocks brought into sharp fo-
(GDP) in the region averaged 4.8 percent a       cus major weaknesses in the region's econo-
year over this period, compared with only 4.3    mies in terms of lack of outward orientation of
percent a year among low-income countries in     trade policies, weak financial sectors, restric-
general (excluding China). Growth was impres-    tive labor markets, inefficient parastatals, and
sive in Pakistan, at 6.4 percent a year, and     constraints on the private sector. In most
countries, the stru ctural- reform process, until
very recently, had been slow and tentative,
and, to a large extent, the economic and social
Table 6-7. South Asia: 1990 Population          transformation required for dynamic and sus-
and Per Capita GNP of Countries that            tamable growth remained unrealized. At the
Borrowed during Fiscal Years 1990-92            same time, the sustainability of macroeco-
Per capita
Populationa        GNPb
Country           (thousands)     (US dollars)
Bangladesh         106,656           210        2 The higher estimate reflects the count based on an inter-
India              849,515           350          national poverty line set at S31 per person per month, in
1985 constant purchasing-power parity (PPP) prices. The
Nepal               18,916           170         lower count is based on a lower poverty line, at $23 per
Pakistan           112,351           380         person per month in 1985 constant PPP prices. The world-
Sri Lanka           17,002           470          wide total of poor people for the high and low poverty lines
is 1. 138 million and 644 million, respectively. To appreci-
NOTE: The 1990 estimates of GNP per capita presented  ate the meaning of PPP prices, note, for example, that
above are from the "World Development Indicators"  tndia's per capita gross national product of $340 in 1990
section of World Development Report 1992.        translates into $1,150 in PPP prices. The $31 poverty line in
a. Estimates from mid 1990.                       PPP prices is thus roughly equal to $9 per person per
b. World Batik Atlas methodology, 1988-90 base period,  month. The latter is the cost in India of maintaining a
minimum caloric intake, at prices prevailing in India.


﻿South Asia  129
nomic imbalances increasingly became a major  Overall, there were hopeful signs in fiscal
concern, as rapidly rising recurrent public  1992 that South Asia's economies will emerge
spending tightened pressures on the banking  from the current wrenching changes better
system and the balance of payments. Managing  poised to deliver faster, sustained, and pover-
the resource squeeze confronted governments  ty-reducing growth in the 1990s. The fragility
with hard choices and tradeoffs. Cutbacks on  and sparseness of economic and social institu-
subsidies and unproductive spending were typ-  tions continue to pose serious obstacles, how-
ically constrained by political considerations  ever. In the weaker economies of Bangladesh
and the difficulty involved in reducing private  and Nepal, limited implementation capacity
consumption.                               exacerbates an already demanding situation. In
These trying circumstances made it all the  all countries, the success of reform ultimately
more necessary for governments to reconsider  depends on governments' capacity to stay the
their macroeconomic and sectoral policies.  course of economic stabilization and restruc-
Experience elsewhere suggests that growth is  turing and to manage the inevitable difficulties
essential for poverty reduction, that macro-  in distributing the burden of adjustment among
economic stabilization and structural reforms  major socioeconomic groups. A more favor-
are essential for growth, and that private-  able external environment, in terms of favor-
sector development is a key component of   able movements in terms of trade, continued
reforms. The private sector can contribute to  access to capital flows, and further liberaliza-
development, however, only when there is an  tion of trade, is also needed.
adequate enabling environment within which it  Selected Country Highlights
can expand. Essential to this environment are
such ingredients as maintaining macroeco-    Recent developments in India, Pakistan, and
nomic stability, avoiding major price distor-  Bangladesh are particularly noteworthy. Al-
tions, creating sound financial systems, and  though different in the details of their policy
providing adequate physical infrastructure and  context, these countries, together with Nepal
a legal environment that respects property  and Sri Lanka, share a continuing agenda of
rights and enforces contracts. Of particular  achieving macroeconomic stabilization, initiat-
importance in recent years have been pro-  ing and deepening structural reforms, encour-
grams for divesting public-sector enterprises  aging private-sector development, and reduc-
and reducing restrictions on entry of the pri-  ing poverty.
vate sector, both domestic and foreign. Expe-  The government of India that took office in
rience elsewhere also provides valuable les-  June 1991 inherited an economy in crisis. For
sons on ways to reduce poverty, notably that  three consecutive years, previous govern-
sharper targeting of public antipoverty pro-  ments had been unable to reduce the fiscal
grams can increase their effectiveness while  deficit to below 9 percent of GDP, and foreign-
minimizing their fiscal burden and that long-  exchange reserves had declined to around $1
term and sustained investments in basic edu-  billion (equivalent to the value of two weeks'
cation and health services are necessary for  imports). India's access to commercial credit
genuine progress toward poverty reduction.  had been severely curtailed as its credit rating
In light of these lessons, it is encouraging to  was downgraded, and foreign commercial
note the recent pragmatic responses of South  banks sought to reduce their exposure to India.
Asian governments. The effort to encourage   The new government swiftly implemented
growth through open markets and private-sec-  decisive macroeconomic stabilization  and
tor development has gathered speed. At the  structural-reform measures. Within the first
same time, there is a recognition of govern-  month in office, it devalued the rupee by 22
ment's role in providing social safety nets to  percent (in terms of rupees per United States
protect the poor during macroeconomic adjust-  dollar) and introduced a trade-liberalization
ment, as well as of government responsibility  package. A revised budget, which set as a
for investments in social and physical infra-  target a reduction of the fiscal deficit to 6.5
structure. The press of short-term problems  percent of GDP, followed quickly.
notwithstanding, most governments in the re-  Significant measures were taken to deepen
gion recognize the dangers of postponing or  reforms in trade and finance. Partial convert-
overlooking longer-term goals of social devel-  ibility of the rupee was achieved. Virtually all
opment and poverty reduction and are making  capital transactions and most current-account
efforts to expand investment in basic education  transactions at free-market exchange rates
and health services. Investments in physical  have been permitted. Progress in trade liberal-
infrastructure, in turn, are being recognized as  ization is being realized through a major reduc-
a focal point for public activity to support an  tion in quantitative restrictions and some re-
expanded private-sector role in the economy.  ductions in tariffs. In the financial sector, the


﻿130   1992 Regional Perspectives
government has announced a reduction in the  prises to state-owned financial institutions,
statutory liquidity ratio from 38.5 percent to an  with further divestiture being planned. The
incremental rate of 30 percent, which is ex-  budget for India's 1993 fiscal year (April 1,
pected to ease credit availability. It has also  1992 to March 31, 1993) provides for an initial
taken action to strengthen capital markets,  allocation to the National Renewal Fund to
including a relaxation of controls over corpo-  help cover the cost of retraining and redeploy-
rate capital issues and the pricing of equity  ing employees affected by public-enterprise
shares.                                     retrenchment and reform.
As India's fiscal and balance-of-payments   During the short time that the current gov-
crisis unfolded in 1990 and 1991, the govern-  ement has been in office, it has altered
ment recognized that much greater reliance on  India's policy framework perhaps more funda-
private-sector development was needed to     mentally than during the whole previous dec-
achieve sustainable growth over the longer   ade of gradual reform. Further, it has made
term after the short-term goal of stabilizing the  clear that the measures taken so far are part of
economy had been realized. Accordingly, the  a much broader program to change the devel-
"new industrial policy," introduced in July  opment strategy that India has followed since
1991, explicitly reduced the areas reserved for  the 1950s. Despite the commendable progress
public-sector investment, lowered investment-  to date, the government continues to face
licensing requirements, eased foreign-invest-  difficult issues in the design of its reform
ment restrictions, and reduced controls over  program, especially regarding the pace of pub-
large firms. The production, refining, and mar-  lic-enterprise reform and the risk of a tempo-
keting of oil and gas were opened to private  rarily higher rate of inflation as structural mea-
investors, both domestic and foreign; price and  sures are implemented.
distribution controls in the steel industry were  India's longer-term goal of poverty-reduc-
deregulated: and a first step toward the dives-  tion depends crucially on the success of re-
titure of public-sector enterprises was taken  forms because of their implications for sus-
through the sale of shares in selected enter-  taed growth. In the 1980s. the incidence of
Table 6-8. Lending to Borrowers in South Asia, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1983-92
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                         1983-87   1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
Agriculture and Rural
Development                   924.3     988.3    976.8     668.0    773.8     336.1
Development Finance Companies   118.0       -      638.8     175.0      3.5     28.4
Education                        81.5      4.2     314.2     580.8    307.1     145.6
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal            417.4     295.0    590.0       -      735.2     330.0
Power                         875.9     814.9   1,147.0  1,012.3    200.0     730.0
Industry                        2s17.7    467.4     235.0      500.0   577.0      -
Nonproject                      150.0       -       62.5     94.4       7.0     655.2
Population, Health, and Nutrition  43.4    74.5    124.6     192.5    388.5     377.5
Public-sector Management          -         -        -         -        -     t
Small-scale Enterprises          29.3     20.0                        kft71.0 e   -
Techniciue arieance                                 i          -      -
Inlea'smlmuongcriiio ,-                                  t    5        vt
Trtionri,rnai4                                 de 4end c   il   on th  sc     oift, re
Lfrtorrm e.c                                              o ethincrir 14'.1  41. -frs-
er -upp8. Lnd S   Bor   rws int" 4  Ai    by Sector,
Fic14 Ya  9.83 -9 2                      s ..9SX
I e hich  IBR1 93                 -      198      1         1       1.991 1   19 4s.
1D                    I.tn      1                  1.-'  5   . 1.4  '.4I6b1.4.1  h-IS
Education                        81f 5    41.2    314      580.      3071      145.
Nnier gy .perauons
O.-il.  gas.., a -..nd wId1  ,1ah coa  4 17.  295  590m0 ri         73 .2     33.


﻿South Asia  131
f                      -A
Women working in a rice paddy in Sri Lanka. The Bank has lent more than $3 billion in support of agriculture
and rural-development projects in the South Asia region.
poverty declined markedly, especially in rural  poverty-reduction programs that increased
areas, mainly because of overall buoyant eco-  growth will foster.
nomic growth. Still, the country had between  Despite the effects of external shocks, Paki-
226 million and 448 million poor people in 1990,  stan's economy has continued to experience
depending on which poverty lines, cited in  quite rapid growth in recent years. In 1991,
footnote 2, one accepts-roughly 35 percent to  GDP grew by about 5.5 percent, with exports
40 percent of the world's poor under either  growing by about 20 percent in United States
definition.                                dollar terms. Despite good growth perfor-
There is, however, concern that some of  mance, Pakistan has found it difficult to keep
these gains in poverty reduction may be eroded  its fiscal and balance-of-payments deficits
in the short run in the context of India's  within stable ranges.
current adjustment program. Available evi-   To address these concerns, the government
dence suggests that the poor remain highly  has moved forward with a program of struc-
vulnerable and may be adversely affected by a  tural reforms-initiated in the late 1980s-
number of components essential to the reform  aimed both at strengthening fiscal and balance-
package, including probable increases in basic  of-payments performance, as well as restruct-
food prices (which would follow in the wake of  uring the respective roles of the public and
exchange-rate depreciation), reductions in sub-  private sectors. The government's overall vi-
sidies for fertilizers and power, and short-term  sion is to develop an outward-oriented econ-
unemployment in the urban-manufacturing and  omy that is increasingly free of public controls,
service sectors (as firms adjust to increased  has a policy and regulatory environment con-
competition following industrial and trade  ducive to private-sector investment, and in
liberalization). While the government has  which the public sector concentrates primarily
taken steps to mitigate the effect of the adjust-  on overall policy environment, as well as on
ment program on the living standards of the  those development tasks that cannot be han-
poor, much more will need to be done in the  dled by the private sector. As part of this
near future, as a complement to the broader  effort, structural reforms in finance, public-


﻿132    1992 Regional Perspectives
Table 6-9. Net Transfers to South Asia
(millions of US dollars; fiscal years)
India            Pakistan        Bangladesh       Total region
start             start            start            start
Item               1992  1992  1988-92  1992  1992  1988-92  1992  1992  1988-92  1992  1992  1988-92
IBRD and IDA
commitments
(undisbursed)   12,788             3,232            1,661            18,877
IBRD and IDA
commitments            2,192 12,190     324   3,243      253   1,904       2,989  18,685
Gross disbursements     2,230 10,707      664  2.571       236  1,660        3,321  15,847
Repayments                703  2,672      141    481        20    71          881   3,284
Net disbursements       1,527  8,035      523  2,089       216  1,589        2,440  12,563
Interest and charges     780   3,249      175    657        36    158        1,011  4,157
Net transfer              747  4,786      348  1,432       180  1,431        1,429  8,406
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
enterprise pricing, and industry and trade pol-  and women's living conditions are far poorer
icy have been accelerated since late 1990.     than for comparable countries. Pakistan's pop-
Financial-sector reforms have included im-     ulation growth, currently averaging 3.1 percent
provements to prudential regulations, intro-   a year, remains the highest in Asia.
duction of a market-based system for funding     Because some 29 percent of all households
the government's domestic debt, the elimina-   in Pakistan are estimated to be poor, poverty
tion of credit ceilings, and steps to reduce   reduction remains one of the government's
concessional and directed credit. Reforms in   most challenging tasks. It is also a task that
industry and trade have concentrated on a      requires continued strong political commit-
reduction in the maximum tariff and nontariff  ment for its realization, an accelerated effort to
barriers to imports.                           expand the provision of basic services by both
The government also launched an ambitious    the public and private sectors (including family
plan in early 1991 aimed at the almost total   planning and female education), sharp in-
privatization  of  state-owned  enterprises.   creases in public funding in the social sectors,
Nearly all of the 115 publicly owned industrial  and widened access by the poor to opportuni-
enterprises, except in the steel industry, are to  ties for increased incomes and productive em-
be privatized. Bids for some forty firms have  ployment. To assist in this effort, the govern-
been accepted, and, by June 30, 1992, twenty-  ment, with donor support, is preparing a
five industrial units had been sold to the pri-  social-action plan that is intended to establish
vate sector.                                   realistic development targets in the social sec-
The   government is also    beginning  to    tors, while clearly specifying the policy and
strengthen reform initiatives in two critical  implementation reforms needed to achieve the
areas where policy changes and action pro-     country's human-resource development and
grams have moved quite slowly. The first       poverty-reduction goals. At a meeting in April
involves public-expenditure and   resource-    1992 of the Pakistan consortium, members
mobilization issues. The second area concerns  welcomed the government's presentation of its
social and human-resource development and      social-action plan and noted with approval the
poverty reduction, where Pakistan's efforts to  active participation of the provinces in the
translate economic progress into social gains  plan's preparation, as well as its strong empha-
have achieved only limited success.            sis on family planning and education of girls.
Pakistan's social indicators underscore the    Shortly after the establishment of a broad-
urgency of accelerating efforts to improve ba-  based government in May 1991, the new gov-
sic services and tackle poverty concerns. The  ement of Bangladesh was faced with a slow-
country's adult literacy rate is 26 percent, its  down of economic activity caused, in part, by
primary-school enrollment ratio stands at 50   the Gulf crisis and by the cyclone that struck in
percent, life expectancy is about 55 years, and  April 1991. The slowdown was exacerbated by
infant-mortality levels are about 107 per 1,000  severe flooding in August and September of
births. These indicators compare poorly with   1991, which ravaged agriculture and impover-
the averages of other low-income countries.    ished the northern part of the country. Indus-
Malnutrition is widespread among children,     trial production remained depressed during the


﻿South Asia  133
second half of 1991, and the execution of the  caused by the floods of 1988, 1989, and 1991.
public-investment program was sluggish in the  Recent efforts aimed at reducing poverty have
face of administrative problems associated  focused on reorienting the pattern of public
with the political transition. To stimulate pri-  spending that goes to help the poor. In the
vate-sector activity, the government lowered  past, traditional programs targeted to benefit
interest rates and reduced margin requirements  the poor, such as food-for-work and vulnerable
for opening letters of credit for imports. Begin-  group-development programs, were expanded
ning December 1991, it also began intensive  when resources permitted; efforts to enhance
monitoring of the public-investment program  the developmental effect of these programs
to speed up implementation. Preliminary evi-  proved to be only marginally successful, how-
dence indicates that economic activity began  ever. More recently, an independent founda-
to accelerate at the beginning of 1992. Agricul-  tion has been established to provide credit for
tural output (mainly foodgrain) is expected to  income-generating programs directed at the
further expand, while industry is showing signs  very poor. If growth in the economy takes
of recovery.                               place, as envisaged, poverty is likely to decline
Since mid 1990, a program of fairly wide-  in the next few years.
ranging structural reforms and private-sector
development has been initiated in Bangladesh.
In agriculture, all restrictions on the import,  The Bank's operational activities in South
distribution, and siting of irrigation equipment  Asia support the major development chal-
and power tillers has been eliminated, and the  lenges faced by the region. Its economic and
role of the private sector has been progres-  sector work has already had the effect of
sively expanded in fertilizer distribution and  redirecting the Bank's policy dialogue with,
marketing. The industrial sector is also being  and lending operations in, the countries of the
liberalized. Under an industrial policy adopted  region: Of the forty-six studies completed
in 1991, only airlines, railways, the production  since the beginning of 1991, thirteen have
and distribution of electricity, and the owner-  concerned poverty and related social-sector
ship of telecommunications facilities are being  issues, eleven explored matters related to
reserved for the public sector. In all other  structural reform, and three were on private-
sectors, the intention is to gradually privatize  sector development; the remaining nineteen
public enterprises. To date, forty-two enter-  dealt with a variety of topics.
prises have been targeted for privatization. All  Poverty assessments have been completed
shares in government-owned industries are to  in all countries except for Sri Lanka (for which
be sold, wherever appropriate. Foreigners are  a study is planned in fiscal 1993). The assess-
now permitted to invest in shares through the  ments, a key ingredient in the Bank's poverty-
stock exchange, and full foreign ownership of  reduction program, form the basis for sharp-
enterprises is allowed in any part of the coun-  ened policy dialogue on poverty issues. In
try. Comprehensive adjustment programs are  Pakistan, where issues relating to social devel-
also being pursued in the financial sector to  opment are especially urgent, the design of that
improve the efficiency and viability of financial  country's social-action plan and a follow-up
institutions.                              poverty assessment were noteworthy efforts
To improve efficiency and mobilize re-   aimed at focusing on a priority item of policy
sources, reform of the tax system, the center-  dialogue with the government.
piece of which was the introduction of a value-  Bank and IDA lending to countries of the
added tax in July 1991, has also taken place. A  region totaled $2,988.8 million, a decrease of
recent evaluation indicates that tax revenues  $616 million over fiscal 1991 amounts. Twenty-
have increased as a result. Efforts are also  three operations were approved. Given the
under way to strengthen reforms in income  pervasiveness of poverty in South Asia, the
taxation and tax administration. In the area of  Bank's lending program stresses both short-
public expenditures, the government has intro-  term and longer-term measures to address the
duced a rolling, three-year public-investment-  needs of the poor. Two lending operations,
program that, although limiting the growth of  totaling $200 million, whose primary objective
current expenditures, emphasizes high-priority  is to reduce poverty, were approved.
projects in agriculture, rural development, ed-  Adjustment operations increased from rela-
ucation, family planning, and health and pro-  tively modest levels: Five adjustment opera-
tects targeted programs benefiting the poor.  tions were approved in the amount of $808
Poverty in Bangladesh retreated modestly in  million, accounting for 22 percent of all
the early 1980s, but this salutary trend appears  projects, or 27 percent of lending volume. In
to have been halted during 1987-91 by the  India, the government's recent policy shift
economic slowdown   and the devastation    toward a major opening of the economy to


﻿134   1992 Regional Perspectives
domestic and international competition pro-  bursed loans and IDA credits was canceled and
vided the basis for a structural-adjustment op-  set aside for recommitment to India as new
eration, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount  quick-disbursing credits. Adjustment support
of $500 million to support reforms in trade,  was also provided to Bangladesh in the form of
industry, finance, and public-sector enter-  a public resource-mobilization  adjustment
prises. In addition, about $650 million in undis-  credit.


﻿Europe and Central Asia  135
Europe and Central Asia
Developments in the Europe and Central    passes the countries of Central and Eastern
Asia region during fiscal 1992 were dominated  Europe and the Soviet Union's successor
by the historic events leading to the dissolution  states, as well as Cyprus, Portugal, and Tur-
of the Soviet Union, the subsequent establish-  key. In August 1991, the Bank's executive
ment of the Commonwealth of Independent     board had approved a $30 million Technical
States by a majority of the republics of the  Cooperation Program  (TCP) through which
former Soviet Union, and the initiation of the  systematic Bank work on economic issues in
long and difficult task of transforming the  the Soviet Union could be funded during fiscal
command-driven economies of the newly inde-  1992. Resident missions were established in
pendent countries into ones that are market  Bucharest, Moscow, and Sofia. Albania be-
based. The countries of Central and Eastern  came a member of the 1BRD and IDA in
Europe, which had begun the transformation  October 1991; membership in the Bank was
earlier, continued to experience severe de-  approved by the board of governors in April
clines in output, suggesting that the task will be  for thirteen of the fifteen former Soviet repub-
arduous and will require the Bank's continuous  lics; and membership was approved in early
assistance. The transition process has proven  May for the remaining two republics. The
to be more difficult than initially envisaged. In  Russian Federation and Estonia officially be-
particular, more attention must be paid to the  came members of the Bank on June 16 and
social and political impact of economic poli-  June 23, respectively. Membership applica-
cies.                                       tions from Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, and
To respond to these historic developments,  Slovenia are also being processed.
the Bank established on December 1, 1991, a  Transition to a Market Economy
new regional vice presidency that encom-
new  egioal  ice  resdenc  tht enom- The countries of Central and Eastern Europe
continued during the year to demonstrate their
commitment to a thorough transformation of
Table 6-10. Europe and Central Asia:       their economic systems within the context of
1990 Population and Per Capita GNP of      parliamentary democracy and in the face of
Countries that Borrowed during Fiscal      severe economic adversity. The transforma-
Vears 1990-92                             tion process is proceeding against the back-
drop of massive terms-of-trade shocks resulting
POPh.r 14u from the collapse of the previously dominant
I  i I  dohi,   Soviet export market, and, for some countres,
a heavy burden of external debt and external-
AIn. ni                           financing shortfalls. The process of disman-
Bulgaiaa                                                     a tling one economic system in favor of another
systematicinvolves macroeconomic stabilization and a
Czechio,u'Ar ak-  1'-'; tv,4              t reorientation of the role of the state; reform of
Pon9. incentives and price systems; enterprise re-
LA90o form and privatization; reform and develop-
Ro'mani.           2 3-'oI     L.e'40     c ment of the financial sector and banking sys-
October 1991;S mebrsi inheankwa
....      aprv tern; the abolition of state monopolies on
)101o UTI~ a                   3.11t)t    foreign trade, foreign exchange, and produc-
-TEir The I A- e'I,rnJr  GNP r-er .7.,rit.j pre enr  tion; the installation of legal frameworks for
A%e r,  fromn vhe '%%orIJ Delell:'Pi[Leffl Ino-iiary the development of market economies; and the
;eviodr, it 11-- !dr R ri                 Russia construction of social safety nets.
n a Nc-i ,, jil-,h'ic The transition process in Central and East-
JuneE2, respctivelc.Membrship                                     pplica
l'..E,imiaie, irom id r14911l eov Europe reveals a diversity of experience,
nThstanding thenta mnd Eatern Eope
nowthecnmicnytmsti the contfetuet ofms


﻿136   1992 Regional Perspectives
reform programs. Differences in the historical  priorities, several common  characteristics
and institutional heritage are affecting the out-  emerging from the reform process can be dis-
come and speed of the adjustment process. On  tinguished: Price liberalization has generally
the one hand, Hungary and Poland have ben-    resulted in some easing of shortages, for exam-
efited from previous experience with enter-   pie, while the establishment of legal frame-
prise autonomy, and the private sector already  works for the emergence of private-sector ac-
employs more than 25 percent of the urban     tivity has resulted, in some countries, in the
labor force in those countries. For Albania, on  beginnings of development.
the other hand, the transition process is just  The external-trade shock, coupled with mas-
beginning. The emphasis on stabilization in   sive cuts in investment that reflected a harden-
Czechoslovakia, coupled with the tight finan-  ing of constraints on the budgets of state-
cial policies of the previous regime, will allow  owned enterprises and the realignment of
the country to emerge from the initial period of  relative prices, led to large declines in real
adjustment with a relatively low debt burden  gross domestic product (GDP) in 1991 for the
and a low rate of inflation. In Romania, by   second consecutive year. Output declines
contrast, the draconian cuts in consumption   ranged from about 8 percent in Hungary and
implemented in the late 1980s to facilitate   Poland (notwithstanding the continued rapid
foreign-debt repayments resulted in an initial  growth of exports to the industrialized coun-
upsurge in consumption and hard-currency im-  tries) to about 23 percent in Bulgaria, the
ports, complicating the ensuing stabilization  country most dependent on the Soviet market
effort.                                       and therefore the country most adversely af-
While each country in Central and Eastern   fected by the demise of the Council for Mutual
Europe clearly faces different challenges, re-  Economic Assistance (CMEA). Output de-
flecting, among other things, the conditions  dines in 1991 in Yugoslavia and Albania can
that existed prior to the initiation of reform, the  only be estimated; surely, however, they were
duration of the reform  effort, and political  larger than Bulgaria's. In Yugoslavia, the out-
Table 6-11. Lending to Borrowers in Europe and Central Asia, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1983-92
(millions of                                 phm dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                         1983-87    1988      1989     1990      1991      1992
Agriculture and Rural
Development                    335.9     100.0    490.0     263.0     100.0     1550
Development Finance Companies    132.6    580.0      29.8     260.0    48.0         -
Education                         36.7     147.8      -        90.2    250.0        -
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal              57.0      30.1     110.0      -       520.0     246.0
Power                          334.1       -         -      250.0     600.0     270.0
Industry                         120.8    250.0     344.5      66.0     330.0       -
Nonproject                       190.4       -         -      600.0   1,000.0    691.1
Population, Health, and Nutrition  -                                       p75.0  -  -  280.0
Public-sector Management                                 bou-   -        -       200.0
Small-scale Enterprises           20.0    300.0       -         -         -       60.0
Technical Assistance               -         -         -        -        17.0      9.2
Telecommunications                14.0                    d     -  -   270o       -
Transportation                   192.1     103.0    233.0     445.0    300.0        -
Urban Development                 30.8       -        -         -         -      200.0
Water Supply and Sewerage         46.2     218.0     60.0     216.0       -       32.0
Total                           1,510.6  1,7289    1,342.3  2,190.2   3,867.0   2,143.3
Of which: IBRD                1,510.6   1,728.9  1,342.3   2,190.2  3,867.0   2,102.2
IDA                     -         -         -        -         -        41.1
Number of operations            14        13       10        14        19        14
- Zero.
NOTE. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.


﻿Europe and Centra Asia  137
II
Moscow's central pedestrian shopping area, the Arbat, where entreprenearship has quickly taken hold.
break of hostilities among some republics     dfcto h      osldtdgnrlgvrmn
caused further disruption to economic activity, bugtws08pretoGD.
while in Albania, the initial transition phase  Nowtsadn        thexralhck,a-
proved particularly traumatic given the rigidity  ac-fpyet      efrac       n19      a
and degree of isolation of the prior regime and  mr  aoal hnatcptdi          oecss
the relatively higher incidence of poverty.   Cehsoai         n    ugr     eoddcr
Starting from negligible levels in 1989, unem- retacutsple,atatdsbtnil
ployment rose throughout the    subregion,    frindrc      netet(bu         15blini
reaching about 12 percent of the labor force in thcaeoHugran$60mlinnte
Poland and even more in some other countries,. aeo    zcolvka,adacmltdsg
Despite substantial progress in reducing fis- nicatfrg-ehnersrv.Byo-
cal expenditures (as shares of GDP), fiscal   tat    ugraadRmnafcdfrin
deficits rose in several countries, reflecting  ecag   hrae      u  otetc      fetra
even steeper contractions of revenue. The lat-  fnnig   ntecs     fBlai,tesotg
ter phenomenon, perhaps most apparent in      waexcrtdbyheuviliiyofcm
Poland, resulted from  that country's prior   mrilcei ie        edn     nareetwt
heavy reliance on enterprise profits, which fell comrilbnsndeteuto.Wrd
with the economic downturn. As a result.      Bn    tutrlajsmn          on   oBlai
Poland, which managed to reduce inflation to  an  Ro   niadanDActcl-m                rs
about 60 percent in 1991 from hyperinflation- crdtoAlai,ouedwhInrainl
ary levels in 1989, must renew its emphasis on  Mntr    udsadyporm,ama              le
fiscal austerity to prevent a deteriorating pub- vitnfoeg-xhgesraeswleup
lic-finance outlook from undermining its stabi- potnthpliyfae         rkorstmcr-
lization effort. Bulgaria managed to reduce its fomadsbizton
fiscal deficit significantly in 1991, and inflation  Wieteetra     hcsadivsmn
is expected to decline in 1992. Bulgaria also cusdrtlafeedopt,heieeny
needs to tighten fiscal policies further, how-  soe   n   oedfiutpoeso            dut
ever, to prevent deficits from widening. Roma- metathenrpielvllscotand
nia ad  vey tghtfisal plic in199 (te  teii supl thesonsied gneraply gonenace trc
bug t,s08preto       D)
NowtsadnTh                                   xenlsok,bl
Mosow' cntrl edetran hopin ara,theArawhnrepyentusihs prform  ancen 199lwa
and egre ofisoatin oftheprir reimeand more favorable than anticipated in some cases.
thereltivly  ighr icidnceof  ovety. Czechoslovakia and Hungary recorded cur-
Staringfro  negigile eves in198, uem- rent-account surpluses, attracted substantial
ployentrosethrughot te suregon,   foreign direct investment (about $1.5 billion in
reahin abut 2 prcet o th laor orc in the case of Hungary and $600 million in the
Polad ad een  orein sme the contres. case of Czechoslovakia), and accumulated sig-
Desitesubtanialprgres i reucig fs- nificant foreign-exchange reserves. By con-
cal xpeditues as hare  ofGDP) fical trast, Bulgaria and Romania faced foreign-
defiitsros  in  eveal ounries relecing exchange shortages due to the lack of external
evenstepercontactonsof evene. he at- financing; in the case of Bulgaria, the shortage
ter  henoeno, pehap  mos aparen in was exacerbated by the unavailability of com-
Polad, esuted  romtha  coutrys pior mercial credit lines pending an agreement with
heay rliace n nteprie pofts,whih fll commercial banks on debt reduction. World
withthe  conmic  ownurn.As  reslt, Bank structural-adjustment loans to Bulgaria
Polnd,whih  anaed o rdue iflaionto and Romania and an IDA     critical-imports
abou 60perentin 991 romhyprinlaton- credit to Albania, coupled with International
ary eves i 198, mst ene  itsempasi on Monetary Fund standby programs, aim at alle-
fiscl asteityto revnt  deeriratng ub- viating foreign-exchange shortages while sup-
licfinnceoutookfro  unermnin it stbi- porting the policy framework for systemic re-
lizaioneffot. ulgria  anaed o reuceits form and stabilization.
fisal efiitsigifianly n 191,an inlaton While the external shocks and investment
is epeced o dclie in199. Blgaia lso cuts directly affected output, the inherently
need totigten iscl plices frthr, ow- slower and more difficult process of adjust-
ever topreent efiitsfro  widnin. Rma- ment at the enterprise level also constrained
nia had a very tight fiscal policy in 1991 (the  the supply response to rapidly enacted price


﻿138   1992 Regional Perspeclives
and trade liberalizations. Hence, acceleration  Protecting the Vulnerable during
of enterprise reform will be critical in generat-  Transition
ing a response to the reformed incentive struc-
ture.                                         The magnitude and duration of the declines
In this respect, the progress already     in output and the resulting fiscal constraints
achieved in establishing a legal framework for  have brought into focus the importance of
private-sector development and privatization  implementing policies that can protect vulner-
holds promise. Growth in the number of regis-  able groups during the transition to a market-
tered private enterprises throughout the subre-  based economy. Pre-reform  labor markets
gion (supported in the case of Poland by the  were characterized byjob security, hoarding of
Bank's Private Enterprise Development Proj-  labor, and a blurring of the distinction between
ect) has been explosive; privatization in the  wages and income transfers. A central part of
agricultural sector and of small-scale enter-  current reforms is the move towards market-
prises, shops, and restaurants has also pro-  determined prices, wages, and employment.
gressed rapidly.                             An inevitable result is a widening distribution
Although privatization of enterprises has  of earnings and income, including rising unem-
proceeded more slowly than had been ex-      ployment and increased poverty.
pected, improved understanding has been       Policies to protect vulnerable groups fall into
reached on the complexity and time required to  three categories. Policies that aim at poverty
enact ownership changes, whether through     relief cover the development of systems of
mass privatization schemes or on a case-by-  unemployment benefits and proactive labor-
case basis, or whether through "giveaways,"  market policies-that is, employment services
sales, or "pilot" privatization. The preparation  that provide information to job seekers and
for large-scale privatization was most ad-   employers, training and retraining, and mi-
vanced in Hungary, Poland, Czechoslovakia,   croenterprise development; the development
and Romania; in the latter three countries, top  of systems of social assistance to which means
priority was given to the design of mass priva-  tests are applied; and the provision of a mini-
tization schemes that were finalized during the  mum level of unemployment benefits, sick
past year.' The number of completed privati-  pay, and pensions at or above the level of
zations is expected to increase throughout the  subsistence. A second category, made up of
subregion in fiscal 1993. Completed privatiza-  cost-containment measures, seeks to improve
tions through fiscal year 1992 progressed fur-  the targeting of benefits that go to the most
thest in Hungary, which, despite relying on  vulnerable by (a) reducing old-age pensions to
more traditional methods, benefited from a   individuals who continue to work full time, (b)
more developed legal framework and capital  providing only partial indexation of benefits
markets, larger inflows of foreign capital, and a  above the minimum benefit, and (c) improving
longer history of experimenting with market-  the incentive structure of benefits. The third
based reforms. In Romania, the first privatiza-  category involves policies designed to improve
tion of shops and restaurants occurred in De-  administration; they might involve ways to
cember 1991; asset-selling accelerated in 1992.  streamline the structure of benefits, increase
In May 1992, the free distribution of 30 percent  institutional capacity, and strengthen proactive
of stock to the whole population through a set  labor-market policies.
of mutual funds was begun. In addition, most   Policies to protect vulnerable groups are
enterprises have been commercialized (trans-  being implemented with World Bank support.
formed into joint stock companies or limited  Technical assistance is being provided, for
liability companies) with a view to their future  example, to Bulgaria, Russia, and Ukraine. In
privatization.                               Russia, the Bank has advised on ways to
Given the complexity and time required to  safeguard minimum  consumption levels as
carry out privatization, increased attention to  price subsidies are removed, on how to protect
issues of governance and to the restructuring  and redeploy those who become unemployed
of state enterprises is required in parallel with  as the economy is restructured, and on the
the privatization process. Governance con-
cerns have been given serious attention in
Hungary, where, with support from the Bank    The coupon-privatization process was begun in Czechoslo-
in the form of a $200 million loan for enterprise  vakia in May 1992. About 8.6 million holders or privatiza-
reform, a comprehensive program to reform    tion coupons-more than half of the country's population-
the state enterprise sector has been developed.  may opt to pool them in any or the 437 privatization-
Bulgaria is expected to get similar Bank sup-investment funds, or they may invest their coupons directly
Bulgriais xpetedto gt smilr Bnk up- in any of some 1,500 companies slated ror privatization
port for private-sector development and indus-  during the first year. The process involves industrial assets
trial development.                            with an estimated book value of almost 9 billion.


﻿Europe and Central Asia  139
introduction or adoption of institutional ar-  ter. The fate of "mothballed" industries and
rangements to protect minimum living stan-  nuclear power plants will involve important
dards in a market-oriented economy. Support  environmental considerations.
is also being provided through sector work in  A lack of funds to pay for cleanup activities,
Hungary, Poland, and Romania. In Romania,  coupled with weak implementation capacity,
for example, the social sectors, labeled "non-  implies an urgent need to establish priorities.
productive sectors" under the regime of Nico-  Specific environmental investments Will need
lae Ceausescu, were politicized and severely  to be targeted at those problems that will not
underfunded. Under the post-revolutionary  he ameliorated by changes in resource prices
government, social-sector spending has in-  and industrial restructuring. Initial evidence
creased to 17 percent of GDP. Work on devel-  suggests that, because some of the most severe
oping a strategy for social-sector reform has  environmental problems have a limited number
begun. With World Bank support, problems in  of causes, a few crucial policy and investment
different sectors are being identified, and re-  measures are likely to have a far-reaching
form priorities are being set and implemented  effect. Moreover, major environmental im-
(in the health and education sectors, for exam-  provements may be achievable at lower cost
ple). In some cases-in Bulgaria and Czecho-  than frequently mentioned-provided that re-
slovakia-implementation of social policies is  alistic intermediate targets are set over the
an integral part of Bank-supported structural-  next ten to twelve years. Nonetheless, impor-
adjustment programs. In still other cases-in  tant environmental-policy issues-such as the
Hungary and Poland-Bank assistance is being  strictness of environmental standards, liability
provided through traditional project lending.  for past environmental damage, responsibility
Thus, in Poland, a $100 million Bank loan is  for transboundary pollution-remain unre-
supporting a program designed to minimize the  solved and are creating uncertainty for enter-
adverse effects of mass layoffs. Specifically,  prises and potential investors who want to be
the program focuses on early intervention at  reassured that unambiguous rules will be
the plant or enterprise prior to layoff. In addi-  spelled out and be uniformly enforced.
tion, integrated materials and techniques for  Environmental-strategy studies have been
occupational counselling are being developed,  completed by the Bank, in collaboration with
and staff from local labor offices are being  the respective governments, for most Central
trained to use them.                       and Eastern European countries, and a policy
Addressingdialogue on environmental issues has been
Addrssig Evirnmenal  oncrnsestablished with the Soviet Union's successor
Environmental degradation has become a   states. The Bank is playing a major role as a
stark symbol of the old system's profligate  participant in the environmental programs for
and, inevitably destructive, command-driven  the Baltic sea and for the Danube river basin,
economic regime. Low resource prices, wide-  and is serving as the secretariat of a task force
spread subsidies, lack of accountability and  preparing an environmental-action program for
enforcement, and perverse incentives all con-  Central and Eastern Europe. It has also pre-
tributed to a situation in which environmental  pared, in concert with the United Nations
pollution was implicitly encouraged as an inev-  Development Programme and the United Na-
itable side-effect of the achievement of eco-  tions Environment Programme, a draft work
nomic and political objectives.            plan for the Global Environment Facility-sup-
In Central and Eastern Europe, however,  ported Black sea project, designed to initiate
most of the ground rules have changed during  the development of a long-term program to
the past twelve to eighteen months, and the  reverse the environmental degradation and to
same thing is likely to occur in the Soviet  rationalize management of the natural re-
Union's successor republics. Economic trans-  sources of the Black sea. Environmental is-
formation, the rapid adjustment of prices to  sues have also been dealt with in a number of
international levels, and the consequences of  sector reports and operations, such as the
initial industrial restructuring have resulted in  Power and Environmental Improvement Proj-
a dramatic drop in production and, thus, lower  ect in Czechoslovakia, the major portion of
pollution-emission levels. Urgent problems re-  which is dedicated to environmental improve-
main, however. The widespread use of coal for  ments.
home heating in many areas, for example, as
well as the continued operation of some heav-
ily polluting large enterprises, continues to  The newly independent states that were
have a substantial adverse effect on health.  once constituent parts of the Soviet Union face
Similarly, pervasive water pollution will re-  the daunting task of introducing systemic eco-
quire major investments to provide clean wa-  nomic reforms while creating the institutions


﻿140   1992 Regional Perspectives
needed for the governance of independent na-  enterprises and shops, to commercialize larger
tions. Several factors make the task of transi-  enterprises, and to prepare for mass privatiza-
tion more difficult than in Central and Eastern  tion must be accompanied by concomitant
Europe. For all the countries (save for Estonia,  actions to clarify property rights and enact
Latvia, and Lithuania), the longer duration of  commercially oriented laws. In this regard,
the communist legacy implies that a greater  special attention should also be given to the
effort will be required to build the skills and  consistency of the legal framework.
institutions needed to make a market economy  Policies that spur competition are also nec-
function. In most states, the question of  essary; such policies would ensure that demo-
whether and when to adopt a national currency  nopolization is carried out in conjunction with
has not yet been resolved: The difficulties  privatization and that the formation of new
associated with coordination of financial poli-  private enterprises is encouraged. In addition,
cies in what is still the ruble zone must be  efforts to restructure the commercial banking
weighed against the lack of resources and  system and to improve prudential regulations
institutional capacity needed to adopt separate  and surveillance must be accelerated. Overly-
currencies. Finally, for the smaller, natural  ing all these issues are serious questions that
resource-poor states (Belarus and Kyrghyz-  relate to the issues of governance. As the
stan, for example), the terms-of-trade shocks  public sector adapts to a market economy, the
that are resulting from the move to world  responsibilities of various levels and branches
prices, together with the disruption of domes-  of government require urgent clarification, es-
tic production caused by collapsing interrepub-  pecially on fiscal issues.
lic trade, are likely to be greater than those  While Russia is the largest of the republics of
experienced in Central and Eastern Europe.  the former Soviet Union and has moved more
given the republics' greater dependence on  rapidly than most with a program of economic
such trade in the past. Even an agriculturally  reform, other republics are also engaged in the
rich and outward-looking republic like Georgia  difficult process of reforming their economies.
has been adversely affected by these economic  In its dialogue with the Bank and the Interna-
uncertainties.                             tional Monetary Fund, Ukraine is drawing up a
Against the background in 1991 of a decline  reform plan that will be discussed in partia-
in output by about 10 percent, inflation esti-  ment. At the same time, the Bank is helping
mated at 140 percent (notwithstanding perva-  Ukraine improve its institutional capacity
sive price controls), a budget deficit in excess  through the provision of technical assistance.
of 20 percent of GDP, and growing shortages of  The republics of the former Soviet Union, in
food, medicine, and fuel, the Russian Federa-  varying degrees, are aware that the outcome of
tion embarked on a decisive liberalization of  the Russian stabilization and reform effort will
prices, the exchange rate, and trade in January  influence greatly their parallel efforts, particu-
1992. All but 5 percent of consumer prices  larly with respect to inflation. Most followed
were freed in a two-stage process that was  the Russian example by liberalizing prices in
completed in April 1992. Prices on energy  January 1992, in part to avoid the outflow of
products, however, are expected to reach   goods to markets where prices were freed.
world levels more gradually. Imports were  Despite such price liberalizations, nearly all
almost completely liberalized, and an inter-  the states erected export barriers to interre-
bank foreign-exchange auction began to func-  public trade to prevent the outflow of scarce
tion, with foreign exchange available for im-  commodities. This action, coupled with the
ports and profits remittances.             declining use of the ruble (and the increasing
The Russian government also took forceful  use of barter), is expected to result in sharply
action in the first quarter of 1992 to reduce the  lower levels of such trade in 1992. The result-
budget deficit. Military expenditures, invest-  ing disruption to production and the almost
ments, and subsidies were reduced, while the  total lack of foreign exchange in several states
introduction of a value-added tax and new  tended to exacerbate the shortages of food,
petroleum taxes allowed the budget to capture  medicine, and critical spare parts and contrib-
much of the benefits from higher energy prices.  uted to a substantial decline in output.
For stabilization to succeed, these fiscal ad-  Central and indispensable components of the
justments will need to be continued and     reform effort involve the large-scale transfor-
strengthened and be complemented by tight  mation of existing state-owned enterprises into
monetary policy.                           efficient and profitable private companies that
Progress has been slower in establishing the  respond to market signals in a competitive
institutions and legal and regulatory frame-  environment and the establishment of a wide
work needed for a market economy. Govern-  range of new private enterprises. The Soviet
ment initiatives to privatize rapidly small-scale  Union's successor states are currently saddled


﻿Europe and Central Asia  141
Table 6-12. Net Transfers to Europe and Central Asia
(millions of US dollars; fiscal years)
Fr            I  '.I         1
lbRT  Q  li I%
i jr,4r .--ur..cJfi  1I  I    , NI'J.          II-
wit RR()   rd Iof a
c Ientr T,n tth  of th s     s       of
\r c          b   w   i  d e sr ei          - 
N.c r. I           14-                    2~'3'             4r         -4111 -.
N-  r  D-),Ur-~me'rT  lror,i)  I  [DA  Nr -i  1-ud  irerisclidcd  rh  c...rr  ~h)*f ti-   n .    it , ilie .rc Th,.  -' 01 , 11  W -Ii~
.Im. WrLI  a  rui ,  *:.r rui-i.k -.  , ,nILCd  I. .1--Iefn  del  i i...  n,-i  -1di  i,- r-,i,i  r., o, i ., r Ji,
with (a) the remnants of a centrally directed  In addition, action plans are being developed
economic system in which both production and  under proposed rehabilitation loans to estab-
trade tended to be more advantageous to the  lish clear understandings with all states on the
center than to that of the successor states of  direction, pace, and content of their reform
the Soviet Union; (b) a large state-owned sec-  programs as a basis for further support. The
tor characterized by widespread inefficiency,  action plans also seek to establish policy un-
technological obsolescence, and excessive   derstandings on issues such as price, trade,
backward integration; (c) a distorted industrial  financial- sector, and legal reforms; sector-spe-
structure that favors heavy industry and mili-  cific reforms in areas such as agriculture, en-
tary production over consumer and civilian  ergy, and housing; improved social safety-net
goods and services; and (d) the virtual absence  arrangements during the transitional period;
of private enterprises and a competitive envi-  and training programs and institutional re-
ronment. A number of states have made enter-  forms. In all cases, the Bank is working closely
prise transformation a basic objective of re-  with the European Bank for Reconstruction
form and are attempting to establish the legal  and Development and other major donors to
and institutional framework needed to achieve  coordinate the assistance that is being offered.
this goal. Their immediate need is for substan-
tial amounts of technical assistance to help
design the basic framework and policies and,  The new government in Turkey, installed in
subsequently, to initiate implementation.   November 1991, inherited a public-sector deficit
Institutional capacity  building  is more  that had grown to about 13 percent of gross
needed in the republics other than Russia,  national product (GNP) and an inflation rate that
since their economic development and external  had reached 70 percent. The external current
relations were controlled through Moscow.   account, however, shifted into surplus for the
There exists little experience in dealing with  year, reflecting not only the sharp slowdown in
the design of policy frameworks or with com-  economic activity and the receipt of Gulf crisis-
munication with the outside world,          related grants but also the export sector's suc-
During fiscal 1992, the Bank provided tech-  cess in finding new markets for its goods and
nical assistance for the design of the frame-  services to replace those that had been lost in the
work for privatization, foreign investment, and  Middle East.
new enterprise development in the four repub-  The government has stated its intention to
lics that signed technical-cooperation agree-  accelerate the privatization process and reform
ments following the collapse of the Soviet  of public enterprises. Given the size of the
Union-Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrghyzstan,     state-enterprise sector and its contribution to
and Russia. Follow-up loans, which would   the fiscal deficit, it is unlikely that any stabili-
provide comprehensive packages of technical  zation effort in Turkey would succeed without
assistance and equipment to help implement  forceful action-in particular, action to limit
privatization and enterprise reform, are cur-  the drain on the budget of the largest loss-
rently under consideration.                 makers-on this front.


﻿142   1992 Regional Perspectives
Graduation in Cyprus                       Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992
Cyprus is in the process of a transition to  Commitments by the Bank to the countries
meet the challenge of the impending unification  of the region in fiscal 1992 totaled $2,143.3
of the European Community and is focusing its  million for fourteen operations in eight coun-
efforts on competing within this market. The  tries, including a first operation in Albania. In
Bank's assistance strategy has been to support  comparison, commitments in fiscal 1991 to-
the government's efforts to diversify the coun-  tated $3,867 million for nineteen projects in
try's economic base and foster exports, as well  eight countries. Of the operations approved in
as to protect the environment, particularly its  fiscal 1991, five projects, totaling over $1 bil-
coastal waters. This strategy was supported in  lion, were advanced to the last month of the
fiscal 1992 by a $32 million Bank loan designed  fiscal year, thus temporarily depleting the proj-
to address the drainage and wastewater prob-  ect pipeline in fiscal 1992.
lems in three towns on the island's southeast
coast. With this project, Cyprus graduated
from the status of Bank borrower.


﻿Latin America and the Caribbean  143
Latin America and the Caribbean
By the end of fiscal 1992, almost all coun-  many existing programs were strengthened and
tries in the Latin America and the Caribbean  deepened.
region had adopted programs of structural ad-  These programs invariably emphasize greater
justment. During the year, new adjustment    macroeconomic stability through reductions in
programs were adopted in a few countries, and  public-sector deficits; reforms of public-sector
institutions so as to make progress in public
finances sustainable; a realignment of prices,
Tabl 6-.1.  ati Amricaandtheexchange rates, and interest rates to reflect
Table 6-13. Latin America and themarket conditions; reductions in import restric-
Caribbean: 1991 Population and Per         tions and tariffs; the privatization of public-
Capita GNP of Countries that Borrowed       sector enterprises; and the encouragement of
during Fiscal Years 1990-92                 private-sector involvement in the operation of
KI'        infrastructure, public utilities, and financial-sec-
1t       6          tor institutions.
r iT            ,4J.i I   L  ,If   Many countries have also introduced social
safety-net programs and have retargeted social
Barbad,J.                        h ~ .S-111  expenditures to better reach the most vulnera-
Bch/         I Is     1 '411     ble groups in society. The qualitative changes
B-1                  introduced in all these programs have been
Broilmcil                                      r          stb.SIt designed to make growth sustainable.
hile13.1 -1  .ui These reforms are beginning to bear fruit. In
01s t4     1          1991, total output in Latin America grew by
L-cNi., Ric,         :                ~      about 3.0 percent, marking the first time in four
D01111n1C.11                                years that per capita income grew in real
Rcipublic           -                      terms. Excluding Brazil, which is in the midst
Ecuador              1111s4        4IeI of a recession, the region's growth was about
LIi alk.1dor                      1 i 1.1  4.3 percent, indicating substantial progress in
Cuitna                                     if most countries. Nevertheless, per capita in-
i         come still remains below the level attained in
Hordura,             i. .fty 1979. Inflation rates have fallen in most coun-
J., n w:               4 111     1s51       tries (although they still could be lower); the
Nit:-,Ic   Nv. 14     2. 411     average rate for the region in 1991 was about 75
percent. In Argentina, for example, inflation
Vanrnma              2. 41', it1 1%1       was about 139 percent, compared with over
P4.31p1    1 II        o 1,900 percent and 3,000 percent in the two
Peru                             I~ TI preceding years. In Peru, the 1991 inflation
14 Kiu .d Ne% I         411      3 1111     rate of 379 percent, while still high, is a con-
St Lu,i.,              ' '        1.9111     siderable improvement over the 6,800 percent
Trine,dr .End                               of the year before.
lobap)              1.111        lt1       The private sector is clearly responding to
Uriigua%   ~          1.114      ' s-,      greater economic stability and to the new set of
% vne.,ucla          14. "IS     1.5h,i     incentives being put in place. Overall, domes-
N._Trc Tr.,- 1'-1~~i .k - t-,'.P r, r -f-1, reracri  tic investment in the region rose by about 4
ho.e ii. Iroin ihe ,%%orid D-1.ricra Irdir,  percent in 1991. Several countries-such as
I ii .., n..' -~  R  ** ~:Guyana, for example-have had a significant
n                                                c    r NNi              pe caipii
d Eorr. riLd 1,141,
V. .   -i,. JI-A   cIh-oI, ,   h-C  4r Uc  nweighted average, excluding Nicaragua (2,770 percent
in 1991). Data refer to changes in estimated GDP decators.


﻿144   1992 Regional Perspectives
supply response in the agricultural sector, as  average of 27 cents at the end of 1989 to 49
farmers respond to market-determined prices    cents in March 1992.
and greater accessibility of inputs.             While much has been accomplished in im-
An additional positive sign has been the     proving macroeconomic balances and the envi-
renewed access of many countries to interna-   ronment for private activity and investment,
tional capital markets. Led by Mexico, capital  much remains to be done. Serious social and
inflows to Latin America were the highest     institutional problems remain in many coun-
since the early 1980s. In Mexico, a jump in   tries. Priority areas for future attention include
inflows of nearly $10 billion was about evenly  the need to eradicate the worst aspects of
accounted for by the proceeds of privatization,  poverty, to accelerate human-resource devel-
a rise in foreign direct investment, and in-   opment and the quality of social services, and
creased purchases of outstanding securities.  to improve public administration.
Chile continued to attract significant capital  Policy Adjustments during 1991-92
inflows that were reflective of foreign inves-
tors' interest in the country.                   Several countries in the region added to on-
Broad advances were registered elsewhere     going reform programs by taking major policy
in Latin America, as flight capital returned and  steps during the past year. These reforms in-
direct investment rose. Latin American coun-   eluded changes in trade regimes, tax reforms,
tries raised $18 billion in 1991 in international  and improved programs in the social sectors.
capital markets, about twice the amount raised   In Argentina, the maximum external tariff
during the previous year. Major participants   was reduced to 22 percent, ad valorem import
included Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and Ven-   duties were eliminated, and export taxes were
ezuela. Another positive sign was the upward   reduced. In Brazil, most nontariff barriers
movement in secondary-market prices for        were eliminated, and a program of tariff reduc-
Latin American debt, which moved from an       tion is being implemented that will decrease
Table 6-14. Lending to Borrowers in Latin America and the Caribbean, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1983-92
(millioms of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                          1983--87   1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Agriculture and Rural
Development                   1,095.8   1,404.8     161.8     855.7     941.5   1,569.6
Development Finance Companies     402.0     970.0   1,164.3    47L.1     844.5      577.0
Education                         83.7      88.3      140.0       -      595.3      786.1
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal              125.3       -        94.0       -       260.0     110.1
Power                           601.4     423.0     736.0     897.5       -         -
Industry                          74.6    1,065.0     860.0       -       200.0     300.0
Nonproject                        460.1     250.0     692.0    1,378.0    422.3     593.8
Population, Health, and Nutrition  39.4     109.0      99.0    389.2     337.3       47.5
Public-sector Management            -         -       500.0    350.0     604.0      325.0
Small-scale Enterprises           278.6       -       155.0     77.5        -         -
Technical Assistance               22.4       -        50.7     59.0      68.8       48.2
Telecommunications                 6.0        -        45.0       -         -         -
Transportation                    455.1     210.6     149.3   1,029.0     114.0     438.2
Urban Development                 205.8     491.0     675.0    450.0     364.0      616.0
Water Supply and Sewerage         171.1     252.3     320.0      7.7      485.0     250.0
Total                           4,021.3   5,264.0   5,842.1   5,964.7   5,236.7   5,661.5
Of which: IBRD                3,949.2   5,152.0   5,703.7   5,726.7   5,067.2   5,256.5
IDA                     72.1     112.0     138.4     238.0     169.5     405.0
Number of operations             44        37        43        41        44        45
- Zero.
NoTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.


﻿Latin America and the Caribbean  145
-t
A 1                                       I&
VI
Children in a classroom in Medellin, Colombia. Average annual Bank lending for primary education during the
period fiscal 1991-93 is expected to be triple the amount realized in fiscal 1990.
the average import tariff from 32.2 percent in  also included a reduction in the implicit tax
1990 to 14.3 percent as of July 1993. Colom-  rate on coffee exports and a lowering of the
bia's program of tariff reduction-in which  maximum tax rates for personal and business
average tariffs have been reduced to 15 percent  income. In Guyana, tax reforms have simpli-
from 44 percent in 1989-was completed three  fied the structure of income taxes and reduced
years ahead of schedule. Trade reform in that  rates at the upper end, taxes on imports have
country was also extended to the agricultural  been decreased, and the structure of consump-
sector, where quantitative restrictions on im-  tion taxes has been simplified. In Paraguay, a
ports were virtually eliminated and a system of  large number of taxes was replaced by a few ad
variable tariffs was introduced for key agricul-  valorem levies, and a new value-added tax was
tural products. Most import tariffs in Honduras  introduced. In the Dominican Republic, tax
were adjusted to the 5 percent-to-30 percent  reform has eliminated many exemptions and
range, while import permits and foreign-ex-  deductions, lowered the level of rates, and
change allocations have been eliminated. Ven-  exempted incomes of the poorest from taxa-
ezuela's program of tariff reform was also  tion; however, important problems of tax ad-
completed three years ahead of schedule. Prior  ministration remain.
to 1989, maximum tariffs in Venezuela were   Expansion of programs to cushion the effect
135 percent; in 1991, the maximum stood at 40  of adjustment on the poor took place in El
percent, and the government is committed to  Salvador, where the minimum taxable-income
reduce tariffs on nonagricultural imports to the  limit was raised and several short-term safety-
10 percent-to-20 percent range by the end of  net programs were introduced, and in Venezu-
1992. In Jamaica, foreign-exchange controls  ela, where nutritional and maternal-child
affecting capital transfers were removed.  health-care reforms were introduced, including
Many countries have taken steps to reform  improvements in the targeting of maternal-
their tax systems and improve tax administra-  child health programs and expanded coverage
tion. In El Salvador, tax reforms (carried out in  of community day-care programs for needy
both 1991 and 1992) have reduced distortions  children. In Honduras, a pilot food-coupon
and improved incentives. The reforms have  program has been broadened and targeted to


﻿146   1992 Regional Perspectives
the poor by using primary health-care centers  were eliminated, and tariff levels were simpli-
and primary schools in poor areas as distribu-  fied and reduced. In addition, the monopoly
tion points. The use of redeemable coupons  rights of twelve public enterprises were abol-
has eliminated the logistical problems of food  ished, the insurance business was deregulated,
distribution. In Bolivia, the government is in-  customs procedures and port services were
creasing budget allocations for primary health  liberalized, and the country's rigid labor legis-
care and primary education, but these need to  lation was significantly relaxed. The govern-
be supported by improved implementation.   ment also announced that it would seek to
Newprivatize twenty-three public enterprises, and
New  rogams f Ajustentit repealed the 1987 law nationalizing the bank-
Countries that have recently adopted adjust-  ing system and introduced a new banking law,
ment programs with the assistance of the Bank  which will open Peru's commercial banking to
and that are now beginning to deal with funda-  foreign investment. Prodded by the need to
mental structural problems include Nicaragua,  raise public revenue, the government has em-
Panama, Peru, and Guatemala.               barked on a tax-reform program and is restruc-
When the present government of Nicaragua  turing tax administration. Despite significant
came to power in April 1990, it was faced with  achievements in the short term, the country's
a country in economic ruin from a ten-year  stabilization prospects depend on a still precar-
civil war and a bureaucratic apparatus that  ious fiscal balance. Much of Peru's external
controlled almost every facet of economic ac-  debt of $21 billion is in arrears, and rights to
tivity. A major reform program, launched in  future lending by the International Monetary
March 1991, included a 400 percent devalua-  Fund and the Bank are being accumulated on a
tion of the cordoba and a package of policies  contingent basis pending the eventual clear-
aimed at fiscal and monetary austerity. The  ance of arrears.
public-sector deficit was brought under control  Guatemala is another country in the process
by reducing current expenditures, particularly  of adopting a significant adjustment program.
those for defense and internal security. Public-  The government has reduced the fiscal deficit
sector monopolies in trade and marketing were  and the rate of inflation, reduced import tariffs
abolished, and full access to foreign exchange  to a 5 percent-to-30 percent band, begun to
by the private sector was established. Public  eliminate quantitative import restrictions, and
employment was reduced, the tax system was  lifted all remaining price controls. A major
overhauled, and privatization of about one  tax-reform package was passed in April-May
third of 350 public enterprises was completed.  1992, which eliminated exemptions to the val-
The implementation of this reform program has  ue-added tax, simplified and reduced rates for
received support from the Bank and other   the personal income tax, and reduced the cor-
official donors through the mechanism of a  porate income tax to 25 percent. The govern-
consultative group chaired by the Bank. In  ment is also moving ahead with reforms that
September 1991, Nicaragua cleared $223 mil-  will reduce the presence of the public sector in
lion in arrears owed to the Bank; shortly  banking and increase expenditures and ser-
thereafter, a $110 million economic-recovery  ices in the social sectors.
credit was approved-the first commitment by  Privatization and Entry
the Bank to the country since 1982.
Panama adopted a comprehensive adjust-     The broad objective of every adjustment
ment program in 1992. The program seeks to  program is the creation of a more efficient
lower tariffs and remove quantitative restric-  economy. Privatization of public enterprises,
tions on imports, reform the social-security  along with deregulation of government con-
and tax systems, reduce public-sector employ-  trots on the private sector and the elimination
ment, and privatize public enterprises. This  of barriers to entry, has been an integral part of
strategy is being supported by a $120 million  this strategy in most Latin American countries.
economic-recovery loan from the Bank. Pa-  In the past, public enterprises often suffered
nama eliminated its arrears to multilateral or-  from excessive administrative controls, over-
ganizations in February 1992 and is initiating  staffing, poor management, and poor invest-
discussions with its private-bank creditors on a  ment decisionmaking. Loss-making enter-
rescheduling of its private-sector debts.  prises were often unable to increase efficiency
In Peru, the government of President Al-  by replacing obsolete capital equipment. Priva-
berto Fujimori continued to make progress in  tization and increased access by the private
correcting the major distortions and fiscal im-  sector to new areas can restore efficiency by
balances that had been introduced into the  increasing competition, while reducing the fis-
economy during the previous five years. Dur-  cal drain caused by loss-making public enter-
ing 1991, quantitative restrictions on imports  prises. In the case of natural monopolies, how-


﻿Latin America and the Caribbean  147
ever, the public sector must continue to   including the telephone company and hotels,
maintain its regulatory responsibilities. Freed  and is committed to privatizing an additional
from the fiscal and administrative drain caused  sixty-seven entities, representing 50 percent of
by public-enterprise problems, government of-  total assets. During calendar years 1991-92,
ficials can concentrate on those activities that  Brazil auctioned off nine enterprises, including
are best suited to the public sector: the provi-  the large steel complex, USIMINAS. Another
sion of essential public goods and infrastruc-  group of eighteen state-owned enterprises is
ture in support of development and the funding  slated to be privatized. This group includes
of programs in the social sectors that both  enterprises in the steel, petrochemical, mining,
assist the poor and help develop human-capital  energy, transportation, fertilizer, and capital-
resources.                                 goods industries. Privatization programs are
Since 1973, Chile has sold-or in some    also underway in Bolivia, Guyana, Nicaragua,
cases, closed-about 500 state-owned enter-  Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay.
prises, including banks, as part of an environ-
ment of sustained macroeconomic and regula-
tory reforms. The private sector has full    The Bank continues to play an important
freedom of entry into the public-utilities and  role in the adjustment process in Latin Amer-
infrastructure sectors. Since 1982, Mexico has  ica. This role ranges from the advice it gives
merged, liquidated, transferred, or sold more  through its economic and sector work to direct
than 900 out of a total of 1,155 state-owned  lending in support of adjustment and debt-
enterprises. This program was started with  service reduction programs, as well as its more
smaller enterprises in mind and its focus was  traditional project lending. The Bank continues
essentially on mergers and liquidation. After a  to place a high priority on projects that provide
period of success, privatization of large enter-  targeted interventions that reach the poor and
prises, such as the airlines (1988), the tele-  vulnerable groups, develop human resources,
phone company (1990), and commercial banks  and help protect the environment.
(1990), has been emphasized. All eighteen pub-  In fiscal 1992, new commitments totaled
lic-sector commercial banks have been sold,  $5,662 million, involving forty-five operations.
and the fertilizer and steel industries are in the  This amount represented a slight increase over
process of being privatized.               the $5,237 million level of the previous year.
Accelerated privatization is at the center of  The largest commitments were to Mexico ($1.5
Argentina's present stabilization and reform  billion), Peru ($1.0 billion), and Brazil ($798
efforts. Privatization of major state-owned en-  million). About $1.7 billion, or 30 percent, of
terprises, including the national airline, some  total commitments was in the form of adjust-
electricity-generating plants, and telecommu-  ment lending; of this amount, however, over
nications companies, has been completed. The  half ($1.0 billion) went to Peru in the form of
government plans to privatize virtually all  three adjustment operations. Commitments to
other enterprises before the end of 1992, in-  Peru are being made under the Bank's program
cluding gas, water, and power companies; the  for countries with protracted arrears. Under
merchant fleet; the post office: and enterprises  this arrangement, Peru accumulates "contin-
under the defense ministry, particularly steel  gent disbursements" from approved adjust-
and petrochemical plants. The state petroleum  ment loans. Actual disbursements will not take
company has been stripped of its monopoly  place, however, until arrears have been
powers and is being turned into a commercial  cleared, an event that is expected to take place
entity, while most of its oil fields have been  in fiscal 1993. At that time, and assuming that
sold. Finally, the government intends to down-  all of the loan conditions have been met, the
size the overdimensioned public banking sys-  Bank will disburse the three loans approved in
tem and promote the development of capital  fiscal 1992.
markets.                                     About 60 percent of total World Bank lend-
Venezuela's strong program of public-sector  ing in the region represented projects in such
reform has resulted in the privatization of three  traditional areas as agriculture, water supply,
banks, the country's international airline, the  and transport. Projects aimed at poverty re-
telecommunications company (sold for $1.9  duction constituted about 20 percent of total
billion), a shipbuilding company, and a cellular  lending. They included projects in support of
phone company. It has targeted an additional  primary-education development in Costa Rica,
70 enterprises for privatization, with priority  Ecuador, and Mexico; a low-income, barrios-
given to ports, sugar refineries, hotels, the  improvement project in Venezuela; a social-
domestic airline, and water and electric-power  investment fund in Honduras; a small-farmer
enterprises. Jamaica has divested close to 20  services project in Chile; and a rural-develop-
percent of its total pu blic- enterprise assets,  ment project in Ecuador.


﻿148    1992 Regional Perspectives
Box 6-3. New Dimensions in Regional Integration
The past year has seen further development of   vides for the free movement of goods, services,
regional trading agreements in the Americas.    capital, and labor within the common market and
Attempts at regional integration in Latin America  a mechanism for the coordination of macroeco-
are not ne., There I, ho        a er. a  ignificant  norim p,ree
qualitame driterenLe ber i.ccr paL eirerifrnme  Dr'cii-iorI hw%  ko hcen iniated io,ard thc
and the  urrcni ini.it.e% In the p.i  qln%   ro,&.tv reneal .,ofthe Cenlr.d AlsrIai -
regional triding arr.tngem-cni kere haed .n the  noiic Conrti . hi,h nighr inchude Panama
erection  of  i:1. ijiff  h.arrILrs  again.t  itiport!  ;ind  Fcti;'  an  ell a t   iic  r-tr.il nieriiri
from nonmemnelir countric  and %,ere ba,i alk  i [    f 6-ta Rec, El a.d        .IC.1l:i
oriented to.' ard the prormorion of reciiinal import  i    nd Ncricu.i SiLbhin arrancenucil
substitution Thi, niard orienratton cleiir, lie-  ha, beer fac tIer aed h thi pricr :1ureemen ot the
ited potential iain  and nroet of the,e .rrane-  Cenirol AnerrcLn LOiintic to euablr4h a mw&
ments e, entuall. cc'flap'cd Toda%. tariff. ar,  rnrn taritff I perecni ['. the end ci N,42 and to
being low ered. and quanitni e retricriori are  jon Yhe c A I r
being Hried ai p.:iri i -ountrie' idi i.du.l truc-  In jddti.n  he it e -_rlriiie% it The %ndein
tural-adiu,tmcnr rr.granm- Thu.. the potenial  PactIi%1.Aotoiia t-uador.Peru.and%ert
for lasting agreement on tree-trade a.oid. c   ecl h%e greed io n?e to%.rJ a region.l
much 'betler The 4l    t _.crir- .aid unc iltirn  tie-irade .rranocnicni dunn thc period
outcome -f the L ruoual Round or muiliaeral    Ihe goat of the Nnde:ii 6roup i. one of econIMIC
trade necgitition hatC I'lo ncrea;ed interent in  ricer.ion includirceinat free Ir-dc  a c.l-
organning recreinal arranmentnti               nivi v\rnal i,nfl ind a toodinied regional
Mexco '.    urretilt. riectralnO a Ieetradf  apti'.',c h  i .-rci, H,-.er. recent nepoi-
arrangement itn   the t nIred St.tes anJ C.nad...  tion, hate pro.ur. dieII1. and proeic,- to'%ard
which 1%uld hL kno'.,n a  ie Noith Amerian   [ile'e p_l t, Ic'"  talled
Free Tr.ide .\remrenr iNFT.Ai The rnawr         Bilateral and rril.freial di,cu-ion, r abe' rak
issues xv he re%-i%ed include rhc race of diu-  irL: Nice  i   necatat rig inured trade-
ment nece <art in Nle\co < a-ercultural sector  hcrar'iii ari.ingerr!nt.,arh Xeczueli and
which, in the one hand. iivuld henel i tron     olomnha C hil and Me rco ha' e itried : rir
greater aKe- r..1 LI S  marls   .for fruit. and  eril free-ide .icreLnient and ChIv t' neciai
vegetable  bill. oni the other. %%ould Cice niore  ire arranrcirenii ilh keneweca .nd Coloni
competiticn from imported o.dgraint Other ini.  Ihe rci'n , or-I% operating trad  irrangenrl
portant   ue inchide local-content rule- fr au-  the  ri    n'nion \l,rke[ -C NRfO iNf
tomobile. cr, ir.nment. prote,ion - oe*uard,  . . i  h., - Icer r \i it,,e .incv i'7 3 DLirine
against JUnpin  uh.idie% ond ritle% re 4tricnc  i91 the ( \RICCAt countire, reached agree
access to Me t  - fnan . al--se i.e. m rt  anr d  ii vtii'n ., P.  onim'n e.ei nirii .. tich h-,.
oil/petro,hemicat i *.ur<. The N\i- I \ I the  gknerall% heLn acceptLd h, nist rrrher, Ho%
first of . h.i Iould poti  he .b aere "'t hice-  c'z  the ne' t rift I' a rine  il rc:.ni t.i 4'
trade cirran.eent ,,nev th the cOuniriie  or the  perLent. i oh h;eh dutle%  r-cd for y,-od, th:o
hemisphere .ind  he   nited State  under the  Z.'npetv-th dome i.c produce     oithin  he
Enterp:-e for th Aterica, fn\iai ,  it e f lune         rherem entouraLin. , rathen co,t
1992,  :hirtl,-one  of  ihir% ItUr  coilnire  had  rci.on.il i p'rt--utitutiii  regime  fn  iddiron
signed ti.imewo r. nreem.ent .,th the Lnited  ian, nenhers h-e addec    iemrri% %Lli
States th.at co ihi-h hilaterail cc.n.inii%ii.r .n  charc  .ind  1.irlU it  to tN'   .nrin
trade and in, Ctriernl desined to  uide the .,n-  c%icrai   tupLh,i r.m'ine prition for eer
sultation pri      iin leadin ii. free-tr.,Jc ioee-  iiin indiv  I-Fie hgh ina,irnuni ratt of the
ments.                                          i.iliff I' 0At finC .%Ilh ma\intini tariff" cie-
In  June  i4-u  Ihc- e iinimennK i  of .Nrcnrin.  hLC n  ih-.  regrin.  and  d11Co1.r.,ec,  e-tra.
Brazil, Par.,cual'. and t'rugu..  r.alied th  re; p nat e,rort,. C eRICt'N  nrribVr ire not
Treaty or .A,uncion. Under .hich a commrin     con-.drnnL the     oi redricrnc their corri-
marketiN!ERC I.S(- R, III he e%i hii-hed I.inijer  nion eoern i.tiff; in .rdL to mnrpro.i e re,oi e
this trear, df uuikonrl durie and nonlanti ha1. aCii'er i d at,ceterate eiirid  i
riers bet,% cen mcrenhr cruniri Ire ' hedaled Fo
be pha-ed our m elimin ted h, IhL cnd of 1I"'0-
and  a  cmmon u%ei rnal r.ril  .  ind  %tnmn, r . tade i             c  0"- . c' 1.'; :.cr
poliCx , .11 he eqrihitred  f hL treat-. kio. pr,- t,
Environment and natural-resource manage-        the amount of $167 million and $205 million,
ment remains a high priority. In Brazil, the       respectively, are assisting the government to
Randonia Natural Resource Management Proj-         institute changes in key policies, regulations,
ect and the Mato Grosso Natural Resource           and public-investment programs     by providing
Management Project, aided by Bank loans in        incentives for sustainable development and by


﻿Latin America and the Caribbean  149
Table 6-15. Net Transfers to Latin America and the Caribbean
1FAD .j l1 \
IBM  ... d  !I,-\
3. ir..r M C.3 E- j 'I. i
tri cz-  j:                    I -  ' d
No  rijr-I.-              4  n'  ~    I    41"      - 1I'   141       - . ',1
n ..jnt  .- V11 . i   * r '    .11 11%  L-r,ni, .*.  I -ri- &.r hl  .I o ,  rr- Ir11- , .  1-  1,. r i  jdd  I..  iu..  ..i c  -  n r..
addressing the sources of natural-resource deg-  ing particular projects (see Box 6-3 for a discus-
radation. In Mexico, the Environmental Proj-  sion of developments in regional integration).
ect, supported by a $50 million Bank loan, will  The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
enhance the government's capacity to carry  Economic Development (CGCED) continues
out key environmental-protection and natural-  to be the dominant forum to discuss the eco-
resource management functions in the short  nomic policies and development needs of the
term and, at the same time, strengthen the  Caribbean countries with the donor commu-
policy and institutional framework that will  nity. The eleventh meeting of the CGCED,
enable the government to carry out its func-  held in June 1992, reviewed priority country
tions in a more efficient and decentralized  and regional economic issues that are likely to
manner.                                    confront the recipient member countries of the
Cooperation and cofinancing. The Bank    Caribbean Group over the next two to three
continued to act as chairman for consultative  years. Major issues facing the group include
groups organized for countries in the region.  the potential impact from a loss in preferential
The group for Bolivia met in November 1991 to  trading arrangements, declining aid flows, and
review the country's progress in implementing  the need for further reform in reciprocal trade
its structural-adjustment program. The group  arrangements and to foster efficiency in re-
noted with satisfaction that Bolivia's reform  source use.
program had produced a growth rate of 4      World Bank operations in the region at-
percent in 1991, with inflation of only 15 per-  tracted $3.0 billion in cofinancing from other
cent, and there were encouraging signs that the  lenders during the past year; that amount rep-
private sector was responding to new invest-  resented a substantial increase from fiscal
ment, hydrocarbon, and mining laws that pro-  1991's level of $1.7 billion. The Inter-American
vide clearer rules for private-sector participa-  Development Bank (IDB) has provided the
tion and incentives. In March 1992, a series of  largest cofinancing resources to the countries
consultative-group meetings were held for Cen-  of the region for the past two fiscal years.
tral American countries: Costa Rica, El Salva-  Fourteen cofinancing operations were ar-
dor, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua.   ranged with the IDB for a total of $2.0 billion in
The group reviewed the reform programs and  fiscal 1992. Japan remained the largest source
medium-term financing requirements of the five  of official bilateral cofinancing, providing $775
countries, as well as the progress in implement-  million through seven operations.


﻿150   1992 Regional Perspectives
Middle East and North Africa
In December 1991, the Bank established a   cess of the region. However, the resource
new operational vice presidency for the Middle  requirements of the region are far in excess of
East and North Africa. a region that spans an  the financing that is available from the region
area from Iran in the east westward to Mo-  itself.
rocco. Although the region is homogeneous in  Political problems and conflicts, both within
many respects, it is also heterogeneous in  and between countries, have adversely af-
dimensions such as income levels (with income  fected economic and social development and
per capita ranging from a high of about $20,000  have influenced domestic and regional prior-
in the United Arab Emirates to a low of $600 in  ities. Although these problems have accumu-
Egypt), the availability of natural resources,  lated over decades, some hope for their reso-
and economic systems and policies.          tution has recently emerged.
The oil-exporting countries of the Gulf have
been major contributors to the economic de-  Recent Economic Developments
velopment of the region through national, re-  In 1991, economic developments in the
gional, and multilateral development institu-  countries of the region were largely shaped by
tions. These institutions have been extensively  the Gulf crisis. Beyond the physical destruc-
involved in the economic development of not  tion inflicted upon the countries directly in-
only the Middle East but of other regions as  volved, other countries were hurt by trade
well. Additionally, in the wake of the Gulf  disruptions, a fall in tourism receipts, reduced
crisis, members of the Gulf Cooperation Coun-  aid flows (for some), and by a return home of
cil (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Ara-  migrant workers from the Gulf.
bia, and the United Arab Emirates) decided to  Morocco's  balance-of-payments  position
set up a special fund, with up to $7 billion in  was affected by the Gulf crisis, as well as by
capital, to help finance the development pro-  developments in Eastern Europe: Tourism re-
ceipts dropped by 25 percent, and Eastern
European countries' demand for Morocco's
phosphate-based exports weakened consider-
Table 6-16. Middle East and North           ably. The overall effect of these developments
Africa: 1990 Population and Per Capita      was considerably attenuated, however, by a
GNP of Countries that Borrowed during       record cereals harvest, considerable external
Fiscal Years 1990-92                        financial assistance, and buoyant exports of
Peragroindustrial products and manufactures. In-
Poplat   er capit  terest payments on external debt were reduced
Population   GNPb
Country              (thousands) (US dollars)  considerably following the cancellation of $2.7
billion in debt owed to another Arab country.
Algeria                25,056    2,060        The net effect of these developments was a
Egypt                  52,061     600       slight deterioration of the current account, an
Iran, Islamic Republic of  55,779  2,490   improvement in the net foreign-assets position
Jordan                  3,154    1,240      of the central bank, and an increase of 4.2
Morocco                25,091     950
Tunisia                85,060    1,40       percent in real growth of gross domestic prod-
Tunisiauct (GDP). The budget deficit decreased from
Yemen, Republic of     11,282     n.a.      4.6 percent to 3.3 percent of GDP, but inflation
NOTE: The 1990 estimates of GNP per capita presented  (as measured by the GDP deflator) rose to 8
above are from the "World Development Indicators"  percent in 1991, up from 5.8 percent during the
section of World Development Report 1992.   previous year. The Finance Law for 1992,
n.a. Not available,                         passed at the end of 1991, seeks to sharply
i      E-iinie, ii  rd 1reduce the fiscal deficit in 1992. To this end,
r- ~   ~~                         n   betee   counries have. adversely,-Z'  af- aepeid
F -rim .ic, ...Y, . - E [r,df. ect e important structural measures have been intro-
duced on the revenue side that would result in


﻿Middle East and North Africa  151
_WA                                                                     I~ r_
LT 4
J     .4J
K                                  cw
A health worker in the Nile delta checks an irrigation canal for the presence of schistosomniasis-transmitting
freshwater snails. A $26.9 million IDA credit is helping finance that country's National Schistosomiasis
Control Project.
a revenue increase of 14 percent in 1992. How-  of goods have recovered strongly since then,
ever, a severe drought (between half to three  the foreign-reserves position remains tight,
quarters of the cereals crop appears to have  amounting to the equivalent of about six weeks
been lost) in 1992 may, in the end, depress  of imports.
growth and fiscal revenues, and, ultimately,  For the year as a whole, however, real GDP
raise the budget deficit above its original target.  grew by about 3.5 percent. Substantial success
Tunisia was also adversely affected by the  was realized in the implementation of the gov-
Gulf crisis. Foreign-exchange earnings from  ement's reform program, especially in the
tourism fell by some 33 percent, and other  areas of private-sector development and tax
exports dropped as a result of the disruption of  reform. Producer prices have been liberalized,
trade between Tunisia and the Gulf countries  and the share of manufactured goods free of
during the first quarter of 1991. While exports  price controls has been raised from 55 percent


﻿152   1992 Regional Perspectives
at the beginning of 1988 to 70 percent in 1991.  era] price-liberalization measures-undertaken
The tax system has been made more efficient  as part of the country's overall reform pro-
and equitable through the introduction of a  cess-kept inflation high at about 25 percent.
value-added tax and a complete overhaul of the  The 1992 Finance Law sets out further mea-
income-tax system for individuals and corpo-  sures to reform the economy. These include
rations. Further reforms, such as the liberal-  substantial simplification of the tariff structure
ization of trade and the financial system, are  and an overhaul of the tax system. Fiscal
actively being pursued. Indirect instruments in  reforms, which include the establishment of a
the form of central-bank interventions in the  value-added tax, went into effect in January
money market have been substituted for direct  1992. At the same time, an important restruc-
controls, and the range of financial instruments  turing of public enterprises and the banking
has been widened considerably. Preferential  system was initiated. If structural reforms are
lending and rediscount rates have been raised  pursued, and if petroleum prices remain at (or
and will shortly be eliminated altogether.  above) current levels, Algeria should be able to
Real GDP growth in Algeria was positive,  increase real growth and employment in the
though low, in 1991 (compared with a decline  medium term.
of 2.3 percent in the previous year). Revenues  Since 1990, the Egyptian government has
from petroleum exports increased from around  been implementing a comprehensive adjust-
$9 billion in 1989 to about $12 billion in both  ment program to tackle macroeconomic and
1990 and 1991. As a result, the current account  structural disequilibria and lay the foundations
registered surpluses of 2.3 percent and about 6  for sustainable growth. Overall implementa-
percent of GDP in 1990 and 1991, respectively.  tion of the reforms has proceeded on track.
This improvement also resulted from a con-  Performance, in terms of growth and prices,
traction in imports following an exchange-rate  has been more favorable than initially antici-
devaluation and severe foreign-exchange short-  pated, as GDP grew in real terms by 2.3
ages. The exchange-rate devaluation and sev-  percent in 1991. The current account has
Table 6-17. Lending to Borrowers in Middle East and North Africa, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1983-92
(millions of                                smf dollars)
Annuat
average,
Sector                        1983-1987   1988     1989      1990    1991      1992
Agriculture and Rural
Devetopment                                           tax329.6   647.0   129.0  13.2  299.2
Development Finance Companies   186.6       -         -      170.0    23      u0  -
Education                        87.0      94.0    251.0     30.5     241.4     75.0
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal             23.0        -       5.5       -       84.0     160.0
Power                          51.2     250.0    t65.0      15.5    114.*0    220.0
Industry                         72.4      31.0     108      124.5    365.0       -
Nonproject                       48.0     150.0    200.0     450.0    300      525.0
Population, Health, and Nutrition  14.7     -        4.5     119.0    245.0     26.(8
Public-sector Management           -        -         -      130.0  en i
Small-scale Enterprises          m0.0        28.0     -        - -
Technia Assistance               4.2       -       23.0     26.0 9.0
Telectmmunicationr                               u   dqi        a   l  t  f
Lrbin DLoflfrI                                   *he reform   s prc          1111.1
FsALn. Yeas 98-92
Setor                         1 3         188 1r..8 9.'.S  1990    19       1992,
(De vheh: I29.                      3.6      4.0    19        1322   l.2'
Eduction87*                           9.0-   254O      3.5     241.4      75.0h
Powe.r                         51.~ri.~2~  25Ni650          1.      11.       220.
Idur72
NrMOect                       4800I150.0.200T0i450.0c310.0                  525.0


﻿Middle East and North Africa  153
moved into a surplus of $2.3 billion (including  stabilize the government deficit, it neverthe-
grants), principally because of bilateral debt  less exceeded 13 percent of GDP in 1991,
reduction, exceptional grants received during  resulting in an acceleration of inflation. Over-
1991, increased tourism receipts, and a marked  all, real per capita GDP decreased by 8 percent
movement of private capital reflows and work-  during 1991, and unemployment now stands at
ers' remittances. This has led to a real appre-  over 25 percent of the labor force.
ciation of the Egyptian pound, and gross re-  The past year witnessed a slow return to
serves stood at an all-time high of $8 billion at  normal in the member countries of the Gulf
the end of the year.                       Cooperation Council (GCC). By June 1992, oil
However, a number of less-favorable devel-  output in Kuwait exceeded 1 million barrels a
opments also took place. Government finances  day (in contrast with 1.8 million barrels a day
in fiscal year 1991 remained weak, registering  in 1989), and oil-export revenues and govern-
an overall deficit of 20 percent of GDP, and  ment investment income reached $1 billion and
private investment has not yet responded to  S4 billion, respectively. With the exception of
the new environment. Given the high rate of  Saudi Arabia, overall GDP growth in the other
unemployment, the challenge for policymakers  GCC countries declined slightly as a result of
is to accelerate the pace of reforms, establish  their limited spare oil-extraction capacity.
firmly the credibility of the reform program,  Saudi Arabia's oil output increased to 8.2
and elicit a strong supply response as soon as  million barrels a day in 1991, pushing GDP
possible.                                  growth to about 9.4 percent.
The Islamic Republic of Iran continued its
steady recovery in 1991 in the context of  Long-term Development Challenges
policies aiming to revitalize market mecha-  All the countries of the region, confronted
nisms, cut public deficits, and rebuild basic  by long-term  development challenges, are
infrastructure. Iran's external accounts have  striving to improve the use of their human and
improved in recent years, especially in 1990,  natural resources.
when oil prices surged briefly. Gross domestic  Table 6-18 compares some indicators of hu-
product grew by 5 percent in 1991. Despite  man well-being and social development. The
lower oil revenues in 1991, the government  region lags behind the comparator group of
contained the budget deficit to about 3 percent  middle-income countries on all the basic idi-
of GDP. In spite of its recovery, Iran's econ-  cators of educational attainment and health
omy is faced with the problems of open unem-  status. However, impressive progress was
ployment (around 15 percent) and sizable ex-  made during the 1980s. A key measure of
penditure needs.                           general well-being-life expectancy at birth-
The Jordanian economy showed resilience in  increased by a remarkable 6.7 years during the
the face of the Gulf crisis, with GDP declining  past fifteen years. Other measures showed
by 0.6 percent in 1990 and increasing slightly in  equally impressive advances: The rate of infant
1991. But, as a result of the massive return of  mortality per thousand live births fell from 113
migrant workers from the Gulf, unemployment  in 1975 to 70 in 1990, primary enrollment
increased to more than 25 percent, and per  increased from 80 percent to 96 percent of the
capita consumption fell by 14 percent in 1991.  age group during the same period, and second-
On the positive side, a new standby arrange-  ary enrollment increased from 34 percent to 59
ment was approved by the International Mon-  percent.
etary Fund in February 1992; this was followed  The one exception to this relatively favor-
by a new debt-rescheduling agreement with the  able performance lies in the area of population
Paris Club and the release of the second   growth. Some countries have made significant
tranche of the World Bank's Industry and   advances, such as Tunisia, where annual pop-
Trade Policy Adjustment loan. In support of  ulation growth has recently fallen to 1.9 per-
Jordan's adjustment effort, the Bank organized  cent. For most countries, however, population
a financing tour of the donor community by  growth remains significantly higher than in
Jordanian officials in April 1992. The donor  other middle-income countries, with several
response was generally positive, but it was  countries experiencing rates of 3 percent or
clear that Jordan's medium-term financing re-  more a year. The very young age structure of
quirements have not yet been met.          the region's population (43 percent are under
Yemen was also adversely affected by the  the age of fourteen, compared with 36 percent
Gulf crisis, as the recently unified government  for other middle-income countries) also poses
was faced with the return of about 750,000  serious challenges to the provision of educa-
migrant workers and their dependents, as well  tion, health, housing, and employment.
as by falling levels of foreign aid and tourism  Unemployment is a serious economic, so-
revenues. While some measures were taken to  cial, and political phenomenon throughout the


﻿154   1992 Regional Perspectives
Table 6-18. Human-resource Indicators, Middle East and North Africa, 1970-90
Population                                     Infant mortality
Life         rate (first
Average annual                     expectancy     year of life
growth rate      Adult illiteracy  at birth     per 1,000 live
(percent)        (percent)        (years)        births)
Total   Females
Country                 1970-79  1980-89  1990     1990     1975  1990    1975    1990
Algeria                   3.1      3.0     43       55      56     65     120      67
Bahrain                   4.8      4.3     23       31      65     69      50      32
Egypt                     2.1      2.5     52       66      53     60     138      66
Iran, Islamic Republic of  3.2     3.6     46       57      58     63     116      88
Iraq                      3.6      3.6     40       51      60     63      88      66
Jordan                    3.7      3.8     20       30      59     67      80a     51
Kuwait                    6.4      4.5     27       33      69     74      38      14
Lebanon                   1.0      0.0     20       27      65     66      48      46
Libya                     4.3      4.1     36       50      55     62     111      74
Morocco                   2.4      2.6     51       62      55     62     115      67
Oman                      4.1      4.7    n.a.     n.a.     51     66     121      33
Qatar                     9.0      5.0     24"      28      64     70      50      28
Saudi Arabia              4.9      4.8     38       52      56     65     108      65
Syrian Arab Republic      3.4      3.6     36       49      59     66      75      43
Tunisia                   2.2      2.4     35       44      58     67     101      44
United Arab Emirates     17.2      4.7    n.a.     n.a.     65     72      46      23
Yemen, Republic of        2.7      3.1     62       74      44     49     160     124
All middle-income
countries               2.3c     2.0     22       27     n.a.    66     n,a.      48
n.a. Not available.
a. 1977.
b. 1985.
c. 1965-80.
SOURCE: World Bank.
region. More than 15 percent of the labor force  scarcity is expected to increase significantly by
is unemployed in the Maghreb countries,      the year 2000. as illustrated in Table 6-19.
Egypt, and Iran, while Jordan and Yemen are   Scarce water resources will need to be man-
experiencing unemployment rates in excess of  aged more efficiently by all countries of the
25 percent. The consequences of past popula-  region. The challenge is to ensure a rational
tion growth will continue to be felt in the form  and efficient use and management of water
of extraordinary increases in the labor force for  resources among the countries of the region.
the next twenty years. If the region is to    This calls for the adoption by countries con-
achieve social stability through productive em-  cerned of appropriate water policies.
ployment of both the currently unemployed       Cooperative action is already being under-
and future labor-market entrants, the rate and  taken on the Environmental Program for the
character of economic growth must change      Mediterranean. This program, jointly spon-
significantly from that of the recent past. It  sored by the World Bank and the European
would be unrealistic to suppose that develop-  Investment Bank (EIB), was launched in 1988
ments in the world economy will be anywhere  to assess the environmental-policy, institu-
near sufficient to provide the momentum for   tional, and investment needs of the eighteen
Middle Eastern countries to realize the re-   countries bordering the Mediterranean sea.
quired rates of growth without domestic policy  The program's second phase began in January
reform.                                       1990 and focuses on the identification and
Natural-resource management is another      preparation of investment projects, institution-
pressing regional issue-especially in the case  al-development activities, and definition of
of water. Already, the majority of the countries  policy measures for four priority areas-inte-
in the region suffer from water scarcity. This  grated water-resource management, manage-


﻿Middle East and North Africa  155
Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates
Table 6-19. Water Scarcity in             (through the Bank's program of reimbursable
Selected Middle East and                   technical assistance). These reviews consti-
North African Countries                   tuted about 28 percent of the Bank's staff
Countries              1984        2000   resources devoted to economic and sector
work in the region.
Algeria                1,320      1,818      The Bank became increasingly associated with
Egypt                   882       1,097   reconstruction efforts during the year. In July
Jordan                 3,500      5,818    1991, the Bank participated in the first United
Morocco                 808        993     Nations Inter-Agency Needs Assessment mis-
Tunisia                1,713      2,168    sion to Lebanon. Three months later, Bank and
Yemen, Republic of     5,267      7,253    UNDP missions assisted the Lebanese author-
NOTE: Measures of water scarcity in persons-per-million  ities in assessing the country's economic situ-
cubic meters per year:                     ation and identifying the most pressing rehabil-
100-500 = Water-management problems  itation and technical-assistance needs. Four
500-1,000 - Water stress               sectors were identified as requiring immediate
1,000-above = Water scarcity
SOURCE: World Bank.
water supply and sewerage, and housing.
In Lebanon, the economic situation initially
ment of solid and hazardous waste, control of  improved in 1991 as a result of improved
marine pollution, and coastal-zone manage-  security. Bank and UNDP missions laid the
ment. The   Mediterranean  Environmental   groundwork for the World Bank-sponsored
Technical Assistance Program (METAP) is the  aid-coordination meeting on Lebanon, which
major component of phase two. Launched as  convened in Paris on December 12, 1991.
an  instrument for environmental action,   Eleven aid-donor nations and fifteen interna-
METAP is a three-year program funded with  tional agencies were represented at the meet-
about $5 million a year by the Commission of  ing to coordinate their assistance. Strong
the European Communities, the EIB, the     support was expressed for effective aid-coor-
United Nations Development Programme       dination mechanisms, and several donors idi-
(UNDP), and the Bank. Now in its third year  cated that they would provide support totaling
of implementation, METAP has already com-  $700 million. That amount does not include
mitted its full $15 million budget and is financ-  assistance that may be provided by the Bank
ing a total of sixty activities that concern  and some other aid-donor nations. It has been
twelve countries, as well as regional activities  estimated by the United Nations, however,
affecting all the countries of the region.  that reconstruction requirements in Lebanon
Phase three, also begun in 1990, supports  for the period 1992-94 could amount to as
implementation of regional and country-spe-  much as $1.5 billion annually.
cific investment projects and policy measures.  A renewed relationship was begun with Iran
Two investment projects, prepared under    in fiscal 1991, when, after a sixteen-year sus-
METAP, have been selected for financing by  pension of operations, a World Bank loan was
the Global Environment Facility-the Manage-  approved-$250 million in support of that
ment of Marine Pollution at the Ports of the  country's earthquake-recovery program. The
Maghreb Countries ($10 million) and imple-  loan, which became effective early in fiscal
mentation of the Management Plan of El Kala  1992, is financing emergency reconstruction of
Natural Protectorate in Algeria ($10 million).  key infrastructure and housing. Although still
marginal, World Bank involvement in the re-
World Bank Operations, Fiscal 1992         building of Iran's economy continued during
During fiscal 1992, lending to the region  the past year: Two  projects were ap-
amounted to $1,482 million, an amount slightly  proved-the Sistan River Flood Works Reha-
lower than the year before, but considerably  bilitation Project, which finances the rehabili-
higher than the average for the four-year pe-  tation and upgrading of existing flood-control
riod 1988-91. In addition, more attention was  infrastructure in the delta area of the Hirmand
given to project and program implementation  and Sistan rivers, and the Tehran Drainage
during the year, as staff resources devoted to  Project, which will provide for construction of
supervision grew by 13 percent.            a stormwater-collection and disposal system to
Country reviews were an important part of  protect central Tehran and the low-lying areas
the Bank's economic and sector work, as    south of the city from frequent floods.
country economic memoranda were drafted      In Morocco, adjustment lending is drawing
and discussed for Iran and Lebanon (where  to a close. A second structural-adjustment
Bank activities were being renewed) and in  loan, approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of


﻿156    1992 Regional Perspectives
Table 6-20. Net Transfers to Middle East and North Africa
(millions of US dollars; fiscal years)
Egypt               Algeria            Morocco            Total region
start                start              start              start
Item              1992   1992  1988-92  1992  1992 1988-92  1992  1992 1988-92  1992  1992  1988-92
IBRD and IDA
commitments
(undisbursed)   1.209                1,653              1,586              5,845
IBRD and IDA
commitments             376   1,202        215   1,836         325  2,296         1,482    7,531
Gross
disbursements           141    632         391   1,292         506  2,091         1,376    5,758
Repayments                201    846         156    647          243  1,013           857    3,841
Net disbursements         -60   -214         236    645          263  1,078           518    1,917
Interest and
charges                 124    693         108    407          241  1,077          656     3,015
Net transfer             -184   -907         128    238          22       1         -138    -1,098
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
$275 million, supports the completion of trade      priorities in Algeria, schooling and literacy in
reforms started in 1983. The loan could mark        Morocco, Iran's human-resources sector, and
the end of World Bank adjustment operations         on the role of women in the Maghreb. Special
in that country, as it is anticipated that bal-     emphasis is being placed on analytical work
ance-of-payments     viability  will  soon   be     aimed at assisting countries design programs
achieved. A similar outcome is in prospect for      that remove obstacles to employment and pro-
Tunisia. An Economic and Financial Reforms          mote the efficient use of labor. The Bank is
Support loan, approved during the year in the       also assisting in the training of public-sector
amount of $250 million, provides continued          employees. The Bank's Economic Develop-
support to Tunisia's medium-term program of         ment Institute, in cooperation with the Amer-
economic reforms and its maintenance of mac-        ican University of Beirut, the Arab Fund for
roeconomic stability. In both these countries.      Economic and Social Development, and the
future Bank lending will take the form of more      Kuwait Fund, has initiated such an endeavor in
traditional project and sector lending.             Lebanon. Finally, links are being intensified
The Bank's analytical work is focusing in-        between the Bank and regional academic insti-
creasingly on the human-resources sectors.          tutions, and work involved in organizing a
Ongoing projects include studies on health          regional research symposium has begun.


﻿157
Section Seven
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD
and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1992
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in This Section
AfDB-African Development Bank                 GEF-Global Environment Facility
AFESD-Arab Fund for Economic and Social       IDB-Inter-American Development Bank
Development                                IFC-nterational Finance Corporation
AGCD-Administration g6n6rale de la           IsDB-Islamic Development Bank
coop6ration au d6veloppement (Belgium)      MCD-Ministry of Cooperation and
AsDB-Asian Development Bank                     Development (France)
BADEA-Arab Bank for Economic                  NDF-Nordic Development Fund
Development in Africa                       NORAD-Norwegian Agency for Development
BOAD-West African Development Bank              Cooperation
CCCE-Caisse centrale de coop6ration           ODA-Overseas Development Administration
economique                                  0ECF-Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
CDC-Commonwealth Development                  OPEC-Organization of the Petroleum
Corporation                                   Exporting Countries
CERF-Council of Europe Resettlement           SACE-Sezione per IAssicurazione dell
(Social) Fund                                 Commercio
CIDA-Canadian International Development       SIDA-Swedish International Development
Agency                                        Authority
COFACE-Compagnie frangaise du commerce        UNCDF-United Nations Capital Development
ext6rieur                                     Fund
DANIDA-Danish International Development       UNDP-United Nations Development
Agency                                        Programme
EBRD-European Bank for Reconstruction and     UNFPA-United Nations Fund for Population
Development                                   Activities
EC-European Community                         UNICEF-United Nations Children's Fund
ECGD-Export Credit Guarantee Department       USAID-United States Agency for International
(United Kingdom)                              Development
EDF-European Development Fund                 WFP-World Food Programme
EIB-European Investment Bank                  WHO-World Health Organization
FAC-Fonds d'aide et de cooperation            WWF-World Wildlife Fund
Agriculture and Rural Development                  country's economic, environmental, and social
ALGERIA: IBRD-$57 million. Some 45,000             goals, will be established and maintained, and
people will see their net farm incomes raised    the productivity of government-owned forests
of employment generated      will be improved to help meet the country's wood
as a result of a project designed to raise the   adeeg     ed.Ttlcs:$87mlin
development of agricultural potential in the  BENIN: IDA-     14.1 million. This project, national
Sahaa rgionthrugh ncrasedwatr ~in scope, aims at developing the capacity of local
SahaORDrorega Agency forug Developmentrsuply
improved drainage, and better extension advice,  communities and private entities to design
Institutional development is included. Total cost:  natural-resource management Adolicies,
$94.4 million,                                  participate in and coordinate the implementation
ALGERIA: IBRD-$25 million. A long-term,           of sustainable methods of land use, monitor the
deterioration of natural resources, plan remedial
to better protect and manage the country's natural AC S  n   e       ira     on
resources-specifically its forests, watersheds,  expected from Germany ($5.1 million), the
and nature-conservation areas-will be
developed. Total cost: S37.4 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA-$49.6 million. A forest-        SIDa used in this secion have been compiled frop documention
management system, fully responsive to the    provided at the ti me of project approval.


﻿158   Summaries of Projects Approved
CCCE ($2.3 million), and the UNDP ($600,000).  the CCCE (S4.5 million). the UNDP (S3.6
Total cost: $24.4 million.                     million), the MCD (S2.21 million), Switzerand
BOLIVIA: IDA-$22.5 million. Funds will be         L4 miltion), and Germany (S .2 million). Tota
provided to help finance an agricultural-export  cost: $46.9 million.
development program, to be implemented by an  CHILE: IBRD-$95 million. A program of
autonomous, private, self-financing foundation,  technology transfer (involving both farm-oriente6
that would enter into joint ventures via equity  extension and home-centered assistance) and
financing and establish subsidiaries to help small  provision of credit for working capital (seeds
and medium-scale farmers and entrepreneurs     and fertilizers, for instance) and for on-farm
expand production and agroindustrial exports.  investments may benefit as many as 84.000
Cofinancing ($9 million) is expected from the  and 100,000 small form families, respectively.
Netherlands. Total cost: $39.7 million.        In addition, a land-titling component is expected
BRAZIL: IBRD-$205 million. An improved          to benefit 43,500 farm families by providing
strategy for natural-resource management,     them with security of landholding and access to
conservation, and development in the state of  a range of public services and agricultural credit.
Mato Grosso will be implemented, thus reducing  Institutional-strengthening assistance is included.
deforestation and pollution from wildcat gold  Total cost: $236 million.
mining, conserving biodiversity, and protecting  CHINA: IDA-S162 million. Some 72(00
the environment and indigenous communities'    households in Guangdong province will directly
rights. Total cost: $285.7 million.            benefit from a project designed to increase fish
BRAZIL: IBRD-$167 million. An improved           production from the South China sea, develop
approach to natural-resource management,       aquaculture facilities, and boost production of
conservation, and development-involving       fruits and sugarcane. A poveny-reduction
environmental conservation, management, and    package. focused on the limestone mountainous
protection; sustainable agroforestry development;  areas of the province, will also be formulated and
and essential socioeconomic infrastructure and  implemented. Total cost: $303.8 million.
services-will be implemented in Rondonia state,  CHINA: IDA-S 25 million Average per capita
which is located in the environmentally fragile  incomes of almost 140.000 poor farm families in
Amazon basin. Total cost: $228.9 million.     the oases of the Tarim basin (XingJiang Uygur
BURKINA FASO: IDA-S28 million.                   Autonomous Region)will more than double, and
Agricultural-sector reforms, supported at the  some 136,000 jobs will be generated as a restlt Of
macroeconomic level by an IDA-supported        a project that seeks to address major constraints to
structural-adjustment credit (June 1991). will be  agricultural productivity through the efficient use
deepened and extended. Cofinancing is expected  of land and water resources and new production
from France ($21 million), the EC (520 million),  technologies. Total cost: S212.1 million.
and the AfDB ($13 million).                  COSTA RICA: IBRD-$41 million. Costa Ricas
CAMEROON: IBRD-$23 million. A food-             Sustainable agricultural growth will be supported
security project has been designed to improve  by improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
access to, and availability of, food by creating  pUbliC-SeCtor institutions and their expenditures.
opportunities for increasing employment and   In addition, the emergence of private technical-
incomes of the poor (especially of women's     assistance services for small and medium-sized
groups), improving market facilities in secondary  producers will be fostered or consolidated, and
cities and rural areas. averting crop loss caused by  resources will be provided for land titling and the
pest attacks, and improving feeding and dietary  consolidation of smallholder settlements, Total
practices of children and women. Cofinancing is  cost: $7) million.
being provided by Japan ($3.8 million) and the  ECUADOR: IBRD-S94 million. About 33,00
WFP (in kind). Total cost: $35.3 million.      smallholder families may benefit from a rural-
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA-$25.8              development project that seeks to increase and
million. The government's new agricultural     diversify agricultural production, complete and
strategy, which relies on producer groups as   rehabilitate irrigation and flood-control schemes,
channels for the delivery of input and services to  improve feeder roads, expand and rehabilitate
farmers, will be assisted through a project that  marketing facilities, improve research and
aims at the institutional strengthening of the  extension services, promote community
Ministry of Rural Development, the National    development, and strengthen and consolidate
Agricultural Research Service, and the National  the institutional framework for rural
Agricultural Development Agency. Provision of  development. Total cost: $112.7 million.
a line of credit for financial assistance to farmers,  EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-W
traders, and communities is included, as is a  million: IDA-S75 million. Almost a quarter
program of rural infrastructure, consisting mainly  million farm families may benefit from a project
of rural roads. Cofinancing is anticipated from  designed to increase agricultural productivity


﻿Agriculture and Rural Development  159
through the installation of subsurface drainage  INDONESIA: IBRD-$225 million. The efficiency
systems on 302,000 hectares throughout the Nile  and sustainability of existing irrigation
valley and delta. Cofinancing is expected from   infrastructure will he better ensured through
Germany ($30 million) and the Netherlands        support for operations and maintenance (O&M),
($10 million). Total cost: $290 million.         cost recovery, and strengthening of O&M-related
GHANA: IDA-$80 million. The government's          institutions, as well as for improved management
reforms in the agricultural sector-involving the  and allocation of water. Cofinancing is
liberalization of agricultural pricing, marketing,  anticipated from the OECF ($45 million),
and input supply, as well as the strengthening  the Netherlands ($7 million), and the Ford
of agricultural-sector coordination and          Foundation ($325,000). Total cost: $463.3
management-will be supported. Cofinancing        million.
($18 million) is anticipated from Germany.    INDONESIA: IBRD-$106.1 million. Long-term
GHANA: IDA-$30.4 million. A national               credit at market rates will be made available
agricultural-extension project is expected to   to private, small and medium-scale agricultural,
generate substantial increases in food production  fishery, and agribusiness enterprises and
and improve the nutrition, income, and standard  cooperatives. Institution-building assistance
of living of a large number of rural families    to the six participating intermediary banks is
through the diffusion of improved technologies   included. Total cost: $189.9 million.
and by facilitating, through farmers' associations,  INDONESIA: IBRD-$87,6 million. The incomes
access to off-farm inputs, credit, and markets.  of 161,000 farm families in the outer islands will
Total cost: $41.1 million.                       be improved to about four times the absolute
HAITI: IDA-$26.1 million. The pace of              poverty level through the provision of inputs,
degradation of the country's natural resources   access tracks, extension, and training in
will be slowed through a project designed to    support of the establishment or maintenance
protect forests and safeguard vital ecosystems   of smallholder rubber and coconut plots.
from further destruction, increase wood          Cofinancing ($4.1 million) has been obtained
production through the promotion of agroforestry  from Japan. Total cost: $154.5 million.
on farms and improved management of state     KENYA: IDA-$60.5 million. The first phase of the
forest lands, and conserve wood by promoting the  Kenya Wildlife Service's ten-year wildlife-sector
use of more efficient charcoal stoves. Total cost:  development program-its main objectives are to
S29 million.                                     halt the precipitous decline of the country's
INDIA: IDA-$ 124 million. Some 800,000             wildlife and its system of national parks and
households, comprising forest dwellers, tribal   reserves and to develop a sound foundation
persons, and smallholder farmers, are expected to  for environmentally sustainable wildlife-based
benefit from a forestry project in Maharashtra   tourism-will be supported. Cotinancing is
state, which, after addressing fundamental       expected from the ODA ($20 million), the EC
institutional, technical, and environmental     (S8 million), USAID ($7 million), Japan
reforms in the management of the forestry sector,  (S6.8 million), Germany ($6.3 million), and
will finance forestry and environmentally       the Netherlands (S3.4 million). Total cost:
beneficial investments, mainly on degraded lands.  $143 million.
Total cost: $142 million.                      MALAWI: TDA-$5.2 million. Funds from IDA
INDIA: IDA-$85 million. About 14.000               reflows will be provided to supplement the
households-mainly from the poorest sections      agricultural-sector adjustment program, approved
of the coastal and rural population in the states  in fiscal 1990 in the anount of $70 million.
of West Bengal. Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,  MALAYSIA: IBRD-$94 million. The incomes of
and Uttar Pradesh-are expected to benefit from   some 24,000 smaltholders will increase through
a project that will develop brackish-water shrimp  the rehabilitation of idle agricultural land with
aquaculture and provide the necessary           treecrops, the maintenance during immaturity of
infrastructure and institutional development to  treecrops planted before and during the project,
enhance production from inland fisheries. Total  and the introduction of reduced-frequency
cost: $95 million.                               rubber-tapping technology. In addition, technical
INDIA: IDA-$34 million. Some 400,000               assistance will be provided to the Federal Land
households in West Bengal state are expected    Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority. Total
to benefit directly from a project that seeks to  cost: $361.6 million.
prevent continuing degradation of forest lands  MALDIVES: IDA-$10 million. A third project in
by installing a sustainable grassroots protection  support of small-scale fisheries will help increase
system in all the regions of the state and      fish production, government revenues, and
enhancing forest productivity and conserving     foreign-exchange earnings; increase incomes
biodiversity. In-service training is included. Total  of fishing households: reduce migration to the
cost: $39 million,                               capital (Male) and create the environment for


﻿160    Summaries of Projects Approved
increased private-sector participation in the    linkages between extension and national and
fisheries sector. Technical assistance is included.  regional agricultural research. Total cost: $19.8
Cofinancing will be provided by Norway ($6.5     million.
million), the NDF (S5.6 million), the OPEC Fund  NIGERIA: IBRD-$67.5 million. Agricultural
for International Development ($2.6 million),    production will be expanded and poverty reduced
Sweden ($2.4 million), and the UNDP              through a project designed to improve the supply
($300,000). Total cost: $30.5 million.           response in activities in which Nigeria has a
MALI: IDA-$20.4 million. The first phase of a      comparative advantage and increase the supply
long-term program aimed at providing support to  of dry-season crops through the development of
village communities to enable them to establish,  small-scale, farmer-managed irrigation. Total
implement, and monitor community natural        cost: $105.9 million.
resource-management plans will be financed.    NIGERIA: IBRD-$42.5 million. The adaptation
Cofinancing is anticipated from Norway ($5       and dissemination of location-specific
million), the UNDP (S 1.5 million), and Germany  agricultural technology will be strengthened in
($1.2 million). Total cost: $32.1 million.      five states, thus increasing farm productivity and
MEXICO: IBRD-$400 million. Some 450,000            production, and smallholder incomes. Institution-
farmers, more than half of whom earn less than   building assistance is included. Total cost: $60
the minimum wage, are to benefit from a project  million.
that provides funding for the government's    NIGERIA: IDA-$25 million. A "core program" of
irrigation and drainage-investment program for   environmental activities-institutional
the period fiscal 1991 through 1994. Cofinancing  strengthening, the establishment of a data-
($200 million) is expected from the IDB. Total   collection system and information network
cost: $1,245 million.                            necessary for monitoring environmental trends
MEXICO: IBRD-$150 million. Investments in         throughout the country, and feasibility studies in
infrastructure, farm, laboratory, and office     key sectors to identify specific investments-
equipment; training; and institutional           that are critical for making the country's
development for the country's chief national     environmental program operational will be
research and extension agencies will be financed  financed. Cofinancing is anticipated from the
in support of the government's strategy to reverse  ODA ($3 million), the UNDP ($3 million),
the falling rate of gains in agricultural       the EC (SI million), and the Montreal Protocol
productivity. Total cost: $300 million.         Interim Fund (S200,000.. Total cost: S37.9
MEXICO: IBRD-$50 million. The government's         million.
ability to carry out key environmental-protection  PAKISTAN: IDA-S29.2 million. The country's
and natural-resource management functions in    environmental-protection institutions will be
the short term will be supported, and the        strengthened. and a series of operations, studies.
institutional and policy framework to enable it  and pilot activities, designed to modify or develop
to carry out these functions in a more efficient  site-specific responses to damaged natural
and decentralized manner in the future will be  resources such as watersheds, rangelands, and
strengthened. Cofinancing (S30 million) is being  natural habitats, will be initiated. Cofinancing
provided by the GEF Total cost: $126.6 million.  ($13.5 million) is expected from the EC. Total
MOROCCO: IBRD-S50 million. The 1991-92             cost: $57.2 million.
investment program of the Ministry of         PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD-$27 million.
Agriculture will be supported, as will policy    About 3,250 poor smallholder families will
reforms in the irrigation and livestock subsectors  benefit directly from a project that seeks to
and institutional reforms within the ministry.  increase oil-palm production, strengthen
Total cost: $640 million.                        agricultural services, and build and maintain
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-S35 million. Some                  roads and social infrastructure. In addition, an
140,000 small-scale farm families in the northern  endangered butterfly species and its associated
provinces of Cabo Delgado and Nampula are to     ecosystem will be protected. Institutional-
benefit from a project that seeks to strengthen  strengthening measures, technical assistance, and
agricultural services, provide production and    studies in the treecrop subsector are included.
marketing credit, and develop and implement      Total cost: $36.8 million.
long-term farm-gate and factory-gate pricing  PARAGUAY: IBRD-$29 million. A rural cadastre
mechanisms for cotton. Institution-building      and a geographic information system will be
assistance is included. Total cost: $40.6 million.  developed as a first, crucial step in the
NIGER: IDA-$18 million. About 300,000 farm         establishment of a land-information system that
families will benefit from a project that        can provide the basic data necessary to the
constitutes a five-year time slice of a long-term  formulation and implementation of a long-term
national program aimed at strengthening the      agricultural Strategy and the improvement of
country's extension services, as well as the     property rights. Total cost: $41.1 million.


﻿Development Finance Companies    161
ROMANIA: IBRD-S100 million. Private-sector       incentive system, expanding pubEc investments
development in agricultural areas will be       in agricultural infrastructure and services,
supported through a project that will finance   increasing the availability of credit, and
credit to private businesses to improve input   strengthening the sector's institutional
supply and food-processing, marketing, and      framework-will be supported. Cofinancing
distribution services. Onfarm investments will  ($200 million) is anticipated from the 1DB. Total
also be financed. Total cost: $164.7 million.   cost: $900 million.
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE: IDA-S9.8 million.        YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF: IDA-$32.8 million.
Annual treecrop and foodcrop production is      The depletion of national groundwater reserves
expected to increase by 60 percent as a result of a  (through tubewell proliferation) and tree cover
project that focuses on the privatization of the  (through increased demand for fuelwood) will be
publicly owned agricultural-estate sector and the  slowed as a result of a project that seeks to
promotion of smallholder production.            strengthen regulation of irrigation-water use,
Cofinancing ($2.1 million) is expected from the  raise efficiency of irrigation management,
WFP. Total cost: $17.2 million.                 conserve existing forest areas and accelerate tree
SRI LANKA: IDA-S14.3 million. A second            planting, and develop a program for sustainable
agricultural-extension project seeks to increase  watershed and natural-woodland management.
farmers' income and agricultural production by  Technical assistance and training are included.
strengthening agricultural-extension services and  Cofinancing ($3.2 million) is expected from the
developing a seed policy. In addition, a private-  UNCDF. Total cost: S47.6 million.
sector pilot extension program is included to help  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF: IDA-$14.4 million.
the government explore the possibilities of     Planning and administrative capabilities in the
gradually divesting itself from extension       Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
activities. Total cost: $18.3 million.          will be upgraded through technical assistance and
SUDAN: IDA-$16 million. Part of the overall      training. tn addition, past developments in
donor effort to provide assistance to those     agricultural research will be consolidated, and
affected by drought, this project also seeks early  unified approaches to extension services for both
recovery of agricultural production in western  male and female farmers will be created.
Sudan through provision of inputs. Policies     Cofinancing (S3 million) is expected from the
directed at mitigating the recurrence of food   Netherlands. Total cost: $22 million.
insecurity will also be established, as will  ZAIRE: IDA-$16.7 million. Cost-effective
institutional arrangements to facilitate those  agricultural-research capacity, responsive to
policies' implementation. Total cost: $26 million.  farmers' needs, will be reestablished through
TANZANIA: IDA-$18.3 million. The                  the implementation of priority research programs
management of forests and woodlands will be     and the rehabilitation of research infrastructure,
improved by strengthening the capacity of the   execution of a program of institutional
institutions in charge of developing and        strengthening and staff training, and the
implementing forest and land policies and by    development of communications and information
increasing the participation of the private sector  systems. Cofinancing, totaling S29 million, is
and local population in the management of the   anticipated from USAID and the UNDR Total
country's natural resources. Cofinancing        cost: $65.2 million.
($700,000) is anticipated from NORAD and      ZIMBABWE: IDA-S150 million. The
others. Total cost: $20.9 million.              government's drought-relief and recovery
TANZANIA: IDA-$11.3 million. Funds from IDA       program will be supported by providing
reflows will be provided to supplement an       agricultural inputs, rehabilitating the water-
agricultural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal  supply system, providing forcritical inputs forthe
1990 in the amount of $200 million.             transport of goods needed for relief and recovery,
TURKEY: IBRD-S55 million. Government efforts      and upgrading the public-works program through
to strengthen agricultural- and forestry-research  which drought relief is distributed. Cotinancing
services' capacity for developing technology    pledges, in the amount ofS127 million, have been
suitable for the less-developed regions of eastern  made by bilateral agencies. Total cost: $1,044
and southeastern Turkey will be supported,      million.
thereby helping Turkish agriculture become
more efficient, both in the modern and traditional  Development Finance Companies
smallholder subsectors. Total cost: $77.6 million.  BANGLADESH: IDA-$25.5 million. A line of
VENEZUELA: IBRD-$300 million. The                 credit will be provided to selected financial
government's objectives of increasing efficiency  intermediaries for term lending to privately
in the agricultural sector and achieving        controlled industrial firms, thus furthering efforts
sustainable growth and exports-to be            to liberalize the financial system. Total cost:
accomplished through a restructuring of the     $50.7 million,


﻿162   Summaries of Projects Approved
BANGLADESH: IDA-$2.9 million. Funds from       TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: IBRD-$27 millior.
IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the  Credit will be made available to help finance
financial-sector adjustment credit, approved in  investment and working-capital requirements of
fiscal 1990 in the amount of S175 million.    private manufacturing and service firms engaged
BRAZIL: IBRD-$50 million. Credit will be         in a broad range of productive activities in all
provided to help finance industrial pollution-  liberalized subsectors-except primary
control projects, thereby improving the quality of  production of oil and gas. Technical assistance,
the environment and the health of the population  designed to enhance the ability of these firms to
living near industrialized areas in Brazil, most  compete in foreign markets, is included. Total
of whom are poor. Technical assistance and     cost: $49.5 million.
institutional -strengthening assistance are
included. Cofinancing ($500,000) is being   Education
provided by Japan. Total cost: $100.5 million.  ANGOLA: IDA-$27. I million. This first Bank-
BURUNDI: IDA-S17 million. A sector-policy        supported project in the country's education
package of institutional, legal, regulatory,   sector will set up a demonstration model for
and financial reforms, designed to remove     education through improvement of the quality of
impediments to private-sector growth, will    inputs and adaptation of the education structure;
be financed, as will sites and services and   strengthen the Ministry of Education's
economically viable and financially profitable  management capacity; improve university-level
projects promoted by private investors. Total cost:  teaching of economics and management; and
$30.3 million.                                provide finance for studies and preparation of
COLOMBIA: IBRD--$100 million. The financial     future investments. Total cost: S31.2 million.
situation and operational efficiency of the  BELIZE: IBRD-S7.I million. The government's
Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI), the    medium-tem education policies and
country's largest public development bank and  development plans for primary education
holding company, will be improved, and the    -the principal goal is to improve the quality
withdrawal of the public sector from productive-  of instructional inputs and increase educational
sector activities will be supported. Credit will also  achievement levels-will be supported. Total
be made available to the IFI which will onlend to  cost: $12.6 million.
private productive enterprises to finance   CHILE: IBRD-$170 million. The efficiency,
investment in fixed assets and working capital.  quality, and equity of primary education will be
Total cost: $415.3 million.                    enhanced in selected schools in urban and rural
COTE D'IVOIRE: IBRD-S150 million; IDA-           areas, and the coverage and quality of preschool
$50 million. The country's multifaceted financial-  education will be expanded and upgraded to
sector reform program will be supported through  increase primary-school preparedness, thereby
an operation whose objectives are to stabilize the  reducing late entry, repetition, and dropout rates.
financial system and restore to health the     Institution-building assistance to the Ministry of
country's system of financial intermediation.  Education's central, regional, and provincial
COTE D'IVOIRE: IBRD-$75 million IDA-$25         offices is included. Total cost: $243 million.
million. A multifaceted reform program, aimed at  CHINA: IDA-$130 million. Governments of six
promoting the competitiveness of the industrial  poor interior provinces will be helped in initiating
sector by enhancing the ability of producers to  institutional and policy reforms needed to
respond flexibly and quickly to changing market  improve the management of education and its
conditions, will be supported.                quality and efficiency within a newly
GHANA: IDA-S 100 million. The second phase       decentralized framework through the financing of
of the country's financial-sector adjustment   needed educational investments in small towns
--expected to result in a broader-based, deeper,  and rural areas, technical assistance, training, and
and more diversified financial sector, with a  support for pilot projects that are furthering the
stronger, more efficient, and responsive banking  restructuring process in higher education. Total
system at its core-will be supported.         cost: $204.9 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA-$2.9 million.               COSTA RICA: IBRD-$23 million. The quality
Supplemental funds will be provided to help   and efficiency of basic education, especially in
finance the Social and Infrastructure Relief   disadvantaged rural and urban areas, will be
Project, approved in fiscal 1989 in the amount  improved by providing the inputs and support
of S5 million.                                 services needed to increase student achievement
PERU: IBRD-$400 million. The country's          and reduce repetition and dropout rates.
medium-term program of macroeconomic           Institution-building assistance to the Ministry of
stabilization and structural reforms, in particular  Education is included. Cofinancing (S28 million)
reforms within the financial sector, will be  is anticipated from the IDB. Total cost: $61.5
supported.                                     million.


﻿Education   163
COTE D'IVOIRE: IBRD-$125 million; IDA-        KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$50 million.
$25 million. The government will be assisted in  The quality of basic science education will be
implementing its human-resources development  improved, and an interlibrary network linking
program, whose primary focus is on improving  thirty-seven institutions will be established, thus
administrative capacity to manage human-      enhancing access to information by students.
resources development and removing key         faculty, and researchers. Total cost: $81.7 million.
obstacles to better performance.            KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$30 million. The
ECUADOR: IBRD-$89 million. The quality and       skill training provided in selected vocational high
delivery of basic education in urban areas, as well  schools will be upgraded, and the vocational high
as adult education and training services, will be  school system will be strengthened though the
enhanced. In addition, those public institutions  introduction of improvements in the link between
that deliver basic education and training programs  schools and employers, more effective planning,
will be strengthened. Total cost: $118.7 million,  and improved staffing arrangements in the
GHANA: IDA-$17.4 million. All aspects of the     schools. Total cost: $48.4 million.
government's functional literacy program, which  LESOTHO: IDA-$25.2 million. Investments
involves providing basic action-oriented       aimed at increasing the quality, efficiency, and
functional literacy and numeracy classes in the  relevance of education at all levels (but primary
learners' own language, will be supported during  education, in particular) will he supported.
the first phase of the program's large-scale  Institution-building assistance is included.
implementation. Cofinancing is being provided  Cofinancing is expected from USAID (24.9
by Norway ($2.9 million) and is expected from  million) and the EC ($4.2 million). Total cost:
UNICEF ($600,000). Total cost: $30.9 million.  $74.6 million.
INDONESIA: IBRO-$69.5 million. About 1.5       MADAGASCAR: IDA-$22.8 million. The
million illiterates and primary-school dropouts  government's new program of technical and
are to benefit directly from basic literacy training,  vocational education and training, designed
and the income-earning opportunities of about  to upgrade training quality and responsiveness
400,000 disadvantaged beneficiaries from      to labor-market needs, will be supported.
impoverished locales will be improved through  Cofinancing is anticipated from France ($2.2
provision of vocational and income-generating  million) and the UNDP ($1.6 million). Total cost:
skills. Institution-building assistance is included.  S31.5 million.
Total cost: $99.3 million.                   MAURITIUS: IBRD-$5.4 million. Assistance will
INDONESIA: IBRD-S37 million. Through             be provided to the government to strengthen
provision of technical assistance, training,   the skills of the work force and open up
equipment, and operational support, some       opportunities for new industries to take advantage
30,000 teachers and their students should benefit  of the country's favorable investment climate.
from a project that will introduce policies and  Resources will be provided to the Industrial and
mechanisms to improve the quality of primary   Vocational Training Board to take a lead role in
education. Total cost: $53.9 million.          the process. Total cost: $7.7 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD-S36.6 million. The quality of  MEXICO: IBRD-$250 million. A primary-
primary education will be upgraded through the  education project, to he implemented in four
development of master's-level primary school   states with the highest incidence of poverty and
teacher-education programs and the initiation of  the lowest education indicators, seeks to reduce
domestic undergraduate courses in primary     high repetition and dropout rates, raise the level of
teacher education. Total cost: $54.1 million.  cognitive achievement, and strengthen the
KENYA: IDA-$100 million. The government's      management of the primary-education system.
education-reform program-which seeks to limit  Total cost: $352 million.
the demands of the education sector on the public  MEXICO: IBRD-$189 million. The first four
budget while improving its quality, efficiency,  years of the National Council for Science and
and effectiveness through a strengthening of  Technology's new science programs (which
planning, budgeting, and information systems-  primarily fund individual research projects and
will be supported.                             equipment-infrastructure projects in universities
KENYA: IDA-$55 million. The government's         and research institutions) will be supported,
reforms in the education sector will be furthered  and technology infrastructure in the areas of
by a project designed to rationalize and      metrology, standardization, and intellectual
strengthen the institutional framework for higher  property will be financed. Institutional-
education, in both public and private universities;  strengthening assistance is also included. Total
limit the growth of budgetary resources devoted  cost: $885.8 million.
to public universities; and improve the quality of  NEPAL: IDA-$30.6 million. Quality and access
teaching and research delivered at the public  issues in the education sector will be addressed
universities. Total cost: $61.1 million,      through a project designed to increase the quality


﻿164   Summaries of Projects Approved
of primary education, improve access to      Energy
educational resources (by strengthening
nonformal primary education and literacy    ALGERIA: IBRD-S 100 million. A first petroleum
programs), and improve the institutional       project will provide technical and legal!
development of the subsector. Cofinancing is   contractual assistance to help foster investment
anticipated from the AsDB ($20.2 million),     by foreign oil companies and 'ill strengthen the
Japan ($15 million), UNICEF ($10.8 million),  technical capabilities of the national oil company
Denmark ($10 million), and the UNDP           in the areas of enhanced oil recovery and drilling.
($7 million). Total cost: S136.5 million.     Cofinancing is expected from the Export-Import
PAKISTAN: IDA-$115 million. Access and           Bank of Japan ($76.8 million) and France (S7.7
participation, especially for girls, in middle  million). Total cost: $240.2 million.
schools in Punjab province's rural and urban slum  ANGOLA: IDA-S33.5 million. A power sector-
areas will be improved (rural female enrollment is  rehabilitation project seeks to la' the institutional
expected to increase by more than 100 percent).  foundation for sustainable operations in the sector
Improvements in educational quality will also be  and to reestablish the integrity of the transmission
made. In addition, the policymaking, planning,  grid in the northern and central electrical systems,
management, monitoring, and evaluation         heavily damaged during the civil war.
capacity of the provincial Department of      Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB
Education will be strengthened. Total cost:   ($18.6 million) and the EIB (S9 million). Total
$164.1 million.                               cost: $66.5 million.
THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$85 million. Some        ARGENTINA: IBRD-$28 million. Through
5,000 engineers and 2,000 scientists will receive  refinancing of studies for preinvestment and
better training each year through implementation  institutional strengthening, the restructuring
of a project that seeks to improve quality and  and eventual privatization of the Yacimentos
efficiency in engineering and science education in  Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad An6nima-the
participating state and private institutions. In  successor entity to the former state oil
addition, access to improved high school science  company-will be supported. Total cost: $40.1
and math instruction will be further expanded.  million.
Total cost: S130.7 million.                  CHINA: IBRD-$380 million. The construction of
THE PHILIPPINES: IDA-S36 million.                a 240-meter-high dam and an underground power
Government efforts in the medium term to       house, as well as the provision of six generating
improve employment and training policies,      units and associated equipment, will help
strengthen employment services, improve       eliminate power shortages in Sichuan province's
nonformal rural basic training, and increase  power system. Cofinancing is anticipated from
private-sector involvement in training and cost  the Export-Import Bank of the United States ($30
recovery will be supported. In addition, strategies  million) and Norway ($5 million). Total cost:
for improving the efficiency of the vocational-  S2,487.1 million.
training subsector will be developed. Total cost:  CHINA: IBRD-$3 10 million. The acute power
$41.8 million.                                 shortage in Shandong province will be alleviated
TUNISIA: IBRD-S75 million. The government's      by the addition of two 600-mW generating units
strategy of modernizing and diversifying higher  to the existing Zouxian thermal power plant and
education with a view to making it more cost   construction of associated transmission lines and
effective and responsive to the needs of the   substations. Technical assistance is included.
country will be supported by creating a new    Cofinancing (S900,000) is being provided by
generation of higher institutes of technology,  Japan. Total cost: $957.4 million.
providing incentives to universities to introduce  CHINA: IBRD-$180 million. Power-s'stem
new courses or enhance the quality of existing  generating capacity in Henan province will be
courses, and improving facilities, such as     augmented through the extension of the existing
libraries, that benefit several programs.      Yanshi power station, thereby enhancing
Institution-building assistance is included. Total  industrial and agricultural production in nearby
cost: $126.3 million.                          areas. Total cost: $459.6 million.
VENEZUELA: IBRD-$58 million.                   CHINA: IBRD-S30 million; IDA-$37 million.
Comprehensive reform of the student-loan       Economic development will be promoted and the
program of the Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de      incidence of poverty reduced in Hainan, one
Ayacucho (the country's largest education-    of the country's poorest provinces, through
financing institution) will be supported through  investments in the energy and agriculture sectors
the introduction of lending instruments that will  that seek to develop renewable hydropower
combine affordability and improved recovery.   resources and increase agricultural production.
Institutional-strengthening measures are       Cofinancing ($100,000) has been secured from
included. Total cost: $85.6 million,          the UNDP. Total cost: $217.7 million.


﻿Energy   165
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: IBRD-$246 million.            INDONESIA: IBRD-S423.6 million. Through the
Power-plant efficiency at the Prunerov II power  construction of three coal-fired units of 600 mW
station in northern Bohemia will be improved  each, including associated works and a 500-kv
through the installation of equipment and     transmission line, and consulting services and
operational improvements that will result in  training, the generating capacity of the state
reduced lignite consumption and reduced       electricity corporation (PLN) in Java will be
emissions of sulphur dioxide and dust, thereby  expanded. In addition, the PLN's capacity to
improving the environment and health of the local  operate and maintain thermal power plants will
population. In addition, the transmission system  be developed, and the corporation's financial
of Czech Power Enterprise (CEZ) will be       position will be strengthened. Cofinancing is
modernized, and the interconnection of the CEZ  expected from the AsDB ($350 million),
and German power grids will be facilitated. Total  Germany ($69.7 million), and export-credit
cost: $557.5 million.                          agencies ($693.4 million). Total cost: $2,360.5
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$220               million.
million. The efficiency and reliability of   KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD--$100 million.
electricity generation in the country will be  In this first Bank-supported liquified natural-
improved through the supply and installation   gas (LNG) project, the infrastructure needed
of a dual, fuel-fired thermal power station at  to facilitate the importation and utilization of
Kureimat, together with an associated natural  5 million tons a year of LNG will be provided.
gas pipeline, transmission lines, and line-loss  Institution-building assistance to the Korea Gas
reduction equipment. Cofinancing is to be      Corporation is included. Total cost: $732 million.
provided by the AfDB ($350 million), USAID  MALAWI: IDA-$55 million. The growing
($193.8 million), the AFESD ($125 million), and  demand for power will be met through the
Saudi Arabia ($50 million). Total cost: $1,386.2  construction of a 50-mW hydroelectric scheme
million.                                       and the rehabilitation of existing power stations.
HONDURAS: IDA-$50.6 million. The                In addition, the quality and efficiency of power
government's energy-sector reform program,    supply will be improved through reinforcing the
which includes measures to make the national  transmission and distribution systems to
power company a financially viable entity and  minimize outages and reduce losses. Institution-
to promote the development of the country's oil  building assistance is included. Cofinancing is
and gas potential by the private sector, will be  anticipated from the AfDB ($27.7 million), the
supported. Cofinancing ($105 million) is      CDC ($25 million), and the EIB ($18 million),
expected from the IDB.                         while $41.6 million in cofinancing is still being
HONDURAS: IDA-$31.5 million. Funds from          sought. Total cost: $271.8 million.
IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement  MALAYSIA: IBRD-$200 million. Important
the energy-sector adjustment credit, approved in  components of the fiscal 1992-93 investment
fiscal 1992 in the amount of $50.6 million (see  program of Tenaga Nasional Berhad (most of
above).                                        which promote indigenous resources such as
INDIA: IBRD-S350 million. Power supply in        natural gas and hydropower) will be financed,
Maharashtra will be increased, and provision  thus helping to sustain the country's economic
of capacity-building assistance will help the  growth. Institution-building assistance is
state electricity board improve its operational  included. Total cost: $429.3 million.
efficiency and strengthen its finances and   MAURITIUS: IBRD-$15 million. Funds will be
managerial autonomy. Cofinancing ($200        provided to help launch the government's sugar-
million) is expected from export-credit agencies.  energy development program. which aims to
Total cost: $1,224 million.                   expand the private sector's electricity generation
INDIA: IBRD-$265 million. By providing           from sugar biomass, thereby lessening the
financing through the Power Finance           country's dependence on imported fossil fuel and
Corporation, the operations of beneficiary state  reducing emissions of greenhouse gases.
electricity boards will be strengthened, better use  Cofioancing (S3.3 million) is being provided by
of existing power facilities will be fostered, and  the GEF Total cost: $55.1 million.
the adverse environmental impact of thermal  NEPAL: IDA-$65 million. The supply capacity
plants will be mitigated. Cofinancing ($14    of the Nepal Electricity Authority will be
million) is anticipated from USAID. Total cost:  increased by improving technical and operational
$712 million.                                 efficiency and by upgrading existing generational
INDIA: IBRD-$150 million. Governmental          capacity. Institution-building assistance is
measures, designed to attract private-sector  included. Cofinancing is expected from the NDF
companies to participate in the accelerated   ($5.4 million), France ($5.1 million), and
development of the country's oil and gas reserves  Germany ($4.2 million). Total cost: $100.1
through joint ventures, will be supported.    million.


﻿166    Summaries of Projects Approved
PAKISTAN: IBRD-$180 million. The                 TUNISIA: IBRD-$60 million. With associated gas
development of indigenous hydrocarbons,          production from the El Borma oil field rapidly
utilizing private-sector resources to the maximum  declining, energy supplies to southern Tunisia's
extent possible, will be accelerated, and the    main industrial center, the Gabes region, will be
commercial orientation and operational           ensured through the construction of a pipeline
autonomy of the public-sector entities in the   that will connect the souther gas network to
subsector will be enhanced to pave the way       the northern grid. In addition, the completion of
for a larger private-sector role. Institutional-  an existing pipeline loop around Tunis will be
strengthening provisions are included.           financed. Technical assistance and training are
Cotinancing is expected from the IsDB ($17.7    included. Total cost: $98.6 million.
million), USAID ($1.7 million), and export-credit  TURKEY: IBRD-$270 million. Through the
agencies (S6.7 million). Total cost: $551.8     construction of a 201-meter-high dam, the
million.                                         installation of hydroelectric generating capacity.
THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$91.3 million. The           and the construction of associated transmission
reliability of electric service in rural areas will  lines, the development of hydropower potential
be improved through the financing of part of the  will be accelerated and the role of the private
1992-95 investment program of the National      sector in power infrastructure expanded.
Electrification Administration. Institution-     Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing is
building assistance is included. Cofinancing ($9  expected from the IFC ($50 million) and
million) is anticipated from USAID. Total cost:  commercial banks/suppliers' credits ($50.2
$118.5 million.                                 million). Total cost: $623.7 million.
SIERRA LEONE: IDA-$21 million. The National
Power Authority will be assisted in carrying out
long-delayed maintenance and rehabilitation of  CHINA: IBRD-$82.7 million. The Chinese
its power-generation and distribution facilities in  cement industry will be supported through
order to restore an adequate and reliable supply  implementation of a regional cement-production
of electricity to the capital city of Freetown.  and distribution scheme that would include
Institution-building assistance is included.     moder large-scale cement-production facilities
Cofinancing ($36.2 million) is being sought. Total  and the country*s first integrated cross-provincial
cost: $74.5 million.                             bulk shipping and distribution network, model
SRI LANKA: IDA-$50 million. The remaining          rehabilitation of a medium-sized plant, and
fifty-three power-distribution systems that are  strengthening of the capabilities of four major
still operated by local authorities-they will be  cement-industry institutes for plant design and
taken over by the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB)  related research. Technical assistance is included.
during the next few years-will be rehabilitated  Total cost: $265.1 million.
and expanded, and a slice of CEB's least-cost  MALI: IDA-$6 million. The capacity of the
transmission investments will be financed.      government to attract more investment in the
Institution-building assistance to the CEB is    mining sector will be strengthened, and a vibrant
included. Total cost: $79 million.              industry, consisting of large, as well as small and
THAILAND: IBRD-554 million. Subprojects            medium-scale mines financed with both foreign
from the Electricity Generating Authority of     and local capital, will be developed. Total cost:
Thailand's investment plan for its fiscal years  $6.5 million.
1991 and 1992 will be financed. In addition, the  PERU: IBRD-S300 million. The government's
four environmental regulatory agencies in the    medium-term program of trade-policy reform
power and mining sectors will be strengthened   -it includes a reduction in tariff protection, the
through provision of technical assistance,      elimination of most nontariff barriers and export
training, and the procurement of environmental-  subsidies, and the initiation of customs reforms-
monitoring equipment. Cofinancing, totaling      will be supported.
more than $2 billion, is being sought from official  TANZANIA: IDA-S200 million. The
and private lenders, as well as from export-credit  government's financial-sector reform program,
agencies. Total cost: $2,933 million.            whose objective is the creation of a system
THAILAND: IBRD-S40 million. Growth in             that operates on the basis of market-oriented
power demand in a U-shaped geographical area     principles, is efficient in mobilizing and
around Bangkok will be met through the           allocating resources, and is effective in fostering
construction of additional transmission lines and  long-term economic growth, will be supported.
substations. Institution-building assistance to the  Cofinancing is expected from the United
Provincial Electricity Authority is included.    Kingdom ($16.8 million) and Switzerland
Cofinancing is anticipated from the OECF ($52    (S6.6 million).
million) and Japan ($900,000). Total cost: $200  ZAMBIA: IDA-$200 million. The next stages of
million.                                         the country's structural-adjustment program,


﻿Nonprojecf   167
which focuses on market liberalization and civil-  GHANA: IDA-$6.1 million. Funds from IDA
service reform, together with new initiatives in  reflows will be provided to help supplement the
private-sector development, privatization, and  program to promote private investment and
parastatal reform, will be supported.           sustained development, approved in fiscal 1991
Nonprojectin the amount of $120 million.
NonprjectGUYANA: IDA-$3.1 million. Funds from IDA
ALBANIA: IDA-$41.1 million. By importing          reflows will be provided to supplement the
and distributing to end-users critical imports  second structural-adjustment credit, approved in
-defined as those considered necessary to      fiscal 1990 in the amount of S74.6 million.
reverse the downward spiral of production and  INDIA: IBRD-$250 million; IDA-$250 million.
to generate a quick supply response in key      The initial phase of the government's program
productive sectors-capacity utilization and     of macroeconomic stabilization and structural
production can be maintained or even increased  reform will be supported.
during the next twelve to eighteen months.    KENYA: IDA-$49.2 million. Funds from IDA
Cofinancing ($2.6 million) is expected from     reflows will be provided to help supplement an
Switzerland. Total cost: $55.3 million.         export-development project, approved in fiscal
BANGLADESH: IDA-$150 million. The                 1991 in the amount of 100 million.
implementation of a program of fiscal reforms,  LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:
designed to increase public investment and      IDA-$40 million. A second structural-
savings, will be supported.                     adjustment credit seeks to support the
BOLIVIA: IDA-$40 million. Structural-             consolidation of the comprehensive reforms
adjustment assistance will be provided to enable  already undertaken in the critical areas of
Bolivia to increase the efficiency and level of  enterprise reform, resource mobilization, and
investment and thus permit an acceleration of   public-resource management upgrading.
growth after the disastrous decline in output in the  MALAWI: IDA-$120 million. Policy reforms,
early 1980s and four years of stagnation in per  designed to remove constraints inhibiting private-
capita income. Cofinancing is anticipated from  sector entrepreneurship and initiative, will be
the IDB ($140 million), Switzerland ($7 million),  supported. In addition, because the worst drought
the Netherlands ($10 million), and USAID       in decades has cut maize production by 60
(S700,000). Total cost: $167.7 million.         percent, balance-of-payments support will be
BOLIVIA: IDA-$10.4 million. Funds from IDA        provided for the purchase of imported maize.
reflows will be provided to supplement the      Cofinancing ($13.4 million) is expected from the
structural-adjustment credit approved in fiscal  AfDB.
1992 (see above).                             MONGOLIA: IDA-$30 million. Economic
BULGARIA: IBRD-$250 million. The                  performance and output will be sustained through
government's economic-reform program, which     the provision Of finanCe for equipment, materials,
aims to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and     spare parts, vehicles, and other inputs needed for
lay the foundations for sustained growth and the  the key agricultural, energy, and transport sectors.
restoration of creditworthiness, will be supported.  Total cost: $38 million.
BURUNDI: IDA-$30 million. A third structural-   MOROCCO: tBRD-$275 million. The last phase
adjustment credit has been designed to help     of the goverment's stabilization and adjustment
strengthen the economy's supply response to the  program, designed to achieve a sustainable
adjustment process by further reducing the role of  increase in the rate of economic growth in order
the state in the economy and by alleviating policy  to ensure employment Opportunities and
constraints to private-sector development.      acceptable living standards while enhancing
Parallel financing is expected from Belgium,    external creditworthiness, will be supported.
France, Germany, Japan, and the EDE           MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-S 1S0 million. Support for
ETHIOPIA: IDA-$ 150 million. A multisectoral     the country's economic and social-rehabilitation
operation, including improvements in public     program will help enhance private-sector-based
health and education, as well as increases in   growth, redeploy budgetary expenditures towards
employment opportunities generated through      key social sectors and smallholder agriculture,
reconstruction works, has been designed to assist  and provide support for drought relief.
Ethiopia to embark quickly on a process of      Cofinancing ($6 million) is expected from
economic and social recovery and to lay the basis  Switzerland.
for a future adjustment program. Cofinancing is  NICARAGUA: IDA-$I 10 million. The country's
expected from the AfDB ($126 million), the EC   structural-adjustment program-designed to
($116.4 million), USAID ($87 million), Germany  downsize and restructure the public sector,
($15.6 million), Sweden ($10.7 million), the EIB  improve resource allocation and mobilization,
($7 million), the Netherlands ($5.6 million),   and reform the incentives systems-will be
Japan ($5.5 million), and the UNDP ($1 million),   supported.


﻿168    Summarles of Projects Approved
NICARAGUA: IDA-$10.3 million. Funds from          structural-adjustment program, which has as
IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the  its central elements budget-deficit reduction,
structural-adjustment credit approved in fiscal 1992.  external-trade liberalization, and domestic
PANAMA: IBRD-S 120 million. The                   regulation, will be supported. Cofinancing
government's economic-recovery program,         is expected from the AfDB ($171 million),
which aims to achieve economic stabilization and  the United Kingdom (S S million), the EC
renew sustainable economic growth, will be     ($10 million), Germany ($8.5 million), USAID
supported. Cofinancing is expected from the 1DB  ($5 million), and SIDA ($3 million).
($120 million) and the OECF ($100 million).   Population, Health, and Nutrition
PERU: IBRD-$300 million. The government's
medium-term program of macroeconomic          CHILE: IBRD-$27 million. The development and
stabilization and broad-based structural reforms  testing of critical policy reforms in the health
will be supported.                              sector will be supported, as will the government's
ROMANIA: IBRD-$400 million. The                   efforts to rehabilitate hospitals in the metropolitan
government's program of structural reforms,     Santiago area. Cofinancing (S700,000) is
designed to transform the economy from one that  anticipated from Japan. Total cost: $45.3 million.
was command driven to one that is market      CHINA: IDA-$129.6 million. National programs
oriented, will be supported.                    to control tuberculosis and schistosomiasis will
SENEGAL: IDA-$4.7 million. Funds from IDA         be supported in selected provinces, thereby
reflows will be provided to supplement the fourth  saving an estimated 1 million lives from
structural-adjustment credit, approved in fiscal  premature death caused by tuberculosis and
1990 in the amount of $80 million.              reducing the number of people infected with
SIERRA LEONE: IDA-$43.1 million. The              schistosomiasis by about 40 percent. Total cost:
government's structural-adjustment program will  $271 million.
be supported by a credit that focuses on improved  EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA-$26.8
fiscal management (particularly revenue         million. The prevalence and intensity of infection
enhancement and expenditure control), reform of  with schistosomiasis among the 17 million people
the public-enterprise sector, and streamlining of  living in the eastern and western delta regions of
the civil service.                              the country will be reduced. Technical assistance
SIERRA LEONE: IDA-$300,000. Funds from           is included. Total cost: $43.3 million.
IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the  EQUATORIAL GUINEA: IDA-$5.5 million. The
reconstruction-import credit, approved in fiscal  quality of the Ministry of Health's field services
1992 (see above).                               in critical areas such as primary health care,
SRI LANKA: IDA-S5.2 million. Funds from IDA       mother and child health, family planning, the
reflows will be provided to supplement the      supply of essential drugs, and control of major
economic-restructuring credit, approved in fiscal  diseases will be improved, and the ministry's
1990 in the amount of $90 million.              capacity to plan, coordinate, and monitor health-
TUNISIA: IBRD-$250 million. Completion, in all    sector activities will be strengthened. Technical
major respects, of the liberalization of external  assistance and training are included. Total cost:
trade, prices, and the financial sector will be  $6 million.
supported, as will institutional reforms to assist  GUYANA: IDA-$10.3 million. The social costs of
the correct functioning of markets.             adjustment will be cushioned by improving the
UGANDA: IDA-$125 million. The country's           health and nutritional status of pregnant and
economic-recovery program will be further       lactating women and children under the age of
supported by a structural-adjustment project   five through the financing of food-supplement
designed to remove constraints on the private   programs, by rehabilitating and equipping health
sector, create an enabling environment conducive  and day-care centers, and by rehabilitating water-
to private-sector activity, and increase        supply, sanitation, and stormwater-drainage
governmental effectiveness through              structures. Technical assistance is included.
improvements in efficiency of operations.       Cofinancing is anticipated from the IDB
UGANDA: IDA-Sl.6 million. Funds from IDA          (S300,000). Total cost: $11.7 million.
reflows will be provided to supplement the    HONDURAS: IDA-SI1.2 million. Resources
second economic-recovery credit, approved in    will be transferred to poor urban and rural
fiscal 1990 in the amount of $125 million.      communities through implementation of a range
ZAMBIA: IDA-S10 million. Funds from IDA           of labor-intensive, small-scale subprojects
reflows will be provided to help supplement the  sponsored by municipalities, community
economic-recovery credit approved in fiscal 1991  organizations, and nongovernmental
in the amount of $210 million.                  organizations. Technical assistance is included.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD-$125 million; IDA-S50              Cofinancing is expected from the IDB
million. The first phase of the government's    ($31.5 million), Gemany ($6 million), the EC


﻿Public-sector Management  169
($4 million), USAID ($2.7 million), the WFP   contraceptive prevalence, reducing maternal
($1.6 million), the Netherlands ($1 million),  mortality, and promoting attitudes favoring a
Spain (S300,000), the UNDP ($200.000), France  reduction in family size. Cofinancing is expected
($100,000), and UNICEF ($100,000). Total cost:  from Belgium ($2.5 million) ant UNICEF ($1
$67.5 million.                                million). Total cost: $24.1 million.
INDIA: IDA-$214.5 million. Rapid but targeted  POLAND: IBRD-$130 million. The government's
assistance will be extended to poor women and  health-sector reform plan will he assisted by a
children-at risk of falling through the social  project designed to strengthen health-promotion
safety net during a period of severe budgetary  programs, support the first steps in sectoral
constraints on publicly financed social       restructuring by shifting the focus from
programs-by helping the government finance     institutional to primary care, strengthen sectoral
the incremental costs associated with expanding  institutional capacity, and ensure sustainability of
and enhancing its national maternal-health and  services by controlling costs. Cofinancing (S25
child-health program and introducing a safe    million) is anticipated from the EC. Total cost:
motherhood initiative. Cofinancing ($67.8      $227 million.
million) is expected from UNICEF. Total cost:  ROMANIA: IBRD-$150 million. The primary
$329.6 million.                                health-care delivery system, which has
INDIA: IDA-$84 million. Through a public-        deteriorated sharply during the past decade
awareness and community-support campaign,     through lack of equipment, spare parts, drugs, and
and by improving blood safety, building        medical supplies, will be rehabilitated and
surveillance, and clinical-management capacity,  upgraded, and the planning and first-phase
and controlling sexually transmitted diseases, the  implementation of a restructuring of health-sector
spread of the human immunodeficiency virus    financing and management will be supported.
should be slowed, thus reducing the future    Total cost: $207.5 million.
morbidity, mortality, and impact of AIDS.   RWANDA: IDA-$19.1 million. Food insecurity
Cofinancing ($1.5 million) is anticipated from  and malnutrition will be reduced through a series
WHO. Total cost: $99.6 million.                of actions including (a) labor-intensive works
INDIA: IDA-$79 million. About 2.4 million       that would be implemented through local
women and children will benefit from a project  communities in partnership with nongovernmental
that seeks to reduce fertility and maternal and  organizations and small enterprises; (b)
infant-mortality rates among slum populations in  development of productive microenterprises; and
Bangalore, Calcutta, Delhi. and Hyderabad. Total  (c) direct provision of locally purchased food aid
cost: $96.6 million.                          to vulnerable families. Emergency food aid to
KENYA: IDA-S31 million. The Kenyatta National   regions threatened by acute food insecurity is also
Hospital, the national referral hospital that also  included, as is a scheme for monitoring living
serves the Nairobi area. will be rehabilitated and  standards through a series of detailed surveys.
its clinical and administrative efficiency    Cofinancing is expected from the WFP ($15.9
improved, thus setting an important example to  million) and the UNDP ($3.1 million). Total cost:
the rest of the country's curative health-care  $46.1 million.
system. A strategic health plan for the Nairobi  SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE: IDA-$11.4
area will also be developed, and modest funding  million. Attempts will be made to reverse recent
provided for its initial implementation. Total cost:  declines in the health and education of the
$34.5 million.                                country's citizenry through the control of malaria,
MAURITANIA: IDA-$15.7 million. As many as       supply of essential drugs, and provision of
750,000 people, mostly women and children, may  textbooks and educational materials. Technical
benefit from the health component of a project  assistance is included. Total cost: $12 million.
that seeks to improve the quality and accessibility  Public-sector Management
of basic health and family-planning services. In
addition, the project will assist the government to  ARGENTINA: TBRD-$325 million. The
articulate a national population policy and define  government's public-sector reform program,
a corresponding program of actions, and to    designed to reduce the chronic macroeconomic
enhance women's ability to participate in and  instability that has slowed economic growth,
contribute to the country's social and economic  stifled the private sector, impeded job creation,
development. Cofinancing is anticipated from  and worsened absolute poverty during the past
UNFPA ($3 million), UNICEF ($2.4 million),    decade, will be supported. Cofinancing ($300
and Germany ($2.3 million). Total cost: $24.4  million) is anticipated from the 1DB.
million.                                    GUINEA: IDA-S7.3 million. The government will
NIGER: IDA-$17.6 million. The government will    be helped to formulate and implement the next
be assisted in implementing an effective national  stage of its Public Enterprise Rationalization and
population program, which aims at increasing   Privatization Program, which emphasizes public-


﻿170   Summaries of Projects Approved
enterprise privatization and strengthening of key  lending program. Institutional-strengthening
institutions involved in program implementation.  measures are included. Cofinancing ($5 million)
Total cost: S8. 1 million.                     is expected from the UNDP. Total cost: $35
HUNGARY: IBRD-$200 million. The                 million.
government's enterprise-reform program, aimed  BURKINA FASO: IDA-$15 million. The
at accelerating sharply the privatization and  government's program to bring about sustained
restructuring of the state-enterprise sector, as well  and equitable economic growth will be supported
as improving state-enterprise governance, will be  through a project that seeks to reinforce major
supported.                                    public institutions charged with economic and
MADAGASCAR: IDA-$1.3 million. Funds from         sector management. Cofinancing ($300,000) is
IDA reflows will be provided to supplement the  expected from Norway. Total cost: $17 million.
public-sector adjustment credit approved in fiscal  CAPE VERDE: IDA-$4.2 million. The
1988 in the amount of $125 million.           government's capacity to design and implement a
MAURITANIA: IDA-$2.5 million. Funds from         wide-ranging public-enterprise rationalization
IDA reflows will be provided to help supplement  program and to begin implementation of its
the public-enterprise sector adjustment program,  policy of promoting the private sector as the main
approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $40   vehicle for economic development will be
million.                                      strengthened. Total cost: $4.7 million.
UGANDA: IDA-$65.6 million. The role of private  CHILE: IBRD-S 17.2 million. Key government
enterprises will be enhanced by reducing the size  institutions responsible fornational policymaking
of the public-enterprise sector through        (especially economic management) will be
privatization and by facilitating access to term  strengthened, and the effectiveness of financial-
finance. The viable public enterprises that remain  management institutions will be increased
will be restructured to improve their performance.  through the provision of consultant services,
Access by public and private enterprises to    equipment. and training. Total cost: 524 million
improved management and technology will also  COTE DIVOIRE: IDA-$15 million. General
be facilitated. Technical assistance is included.  institutional support will be provided to
Total cost: $91.2 million,                     government entities in charge of the country's
pri. vatization program. In addition, consulting
Small-scale Enterprises                         services for the preparation and implementation
POLAND: IBRD-$60 million. The creation of        of privatization plans will be financed, as will
new, private businesses will be supported by the  programs for restructuring/reducing the country's
provision of financing for efficient investment in  foreign debt and for strengthening Abidjan's
private enterprises, particularly in small and  stock exchange. Total cost: $17.7 million.
medium-sized firms. In addition, technical  EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IDA-$9 million.
assistance will be provided to help set up a  The capacity of the Public Enterprise Office and
program aimed at overcoming deficiencies of    the Central Bank of Egypt to design, implement,
business practices and building support services  and monitor reform programs for which they are
for private-enterprise development. Total cost:  responsible will be developed, and professional
$187.2 million.                               project support will be provided for the
preparation of about sixty-five privatization and
Technical Assistance                            enterprise-restructuring transactions. Cotinancing
AFRICA REGION: IDA-$5.5 million. This           is expected from the EC ($10 million), USAID
regional project, involving Benin and Togo, will  ($4.2 million), CIDA ($3 million), the ODA (S3
help finance engineering and other studies, as  million), the UNDP ($3 million), and Germany
well as technical assistance and training, for the  (S2.8 million). Total cost: $43.9 million.
Communaut6 Electrique du B6nin, a binational  EL SALVADOR: IBRD-$ll million. The
joint power-generation and power-transmission  goverment will be helped in developing its
company. Total cost: $6.1 million.            energy policy and improving the efficiency of the
ARGENTINA: IBRD-$20 million. A second Bank       energy sector through reform of the institutional
project designed to strengthen the country's tax  and legal framework. Capacity-building
administration will finance consulting services,  assistance and engineering studies for future
training, office refurbishing, equipment, and  generation projects are included. Cofinancing is
software required by the newly established    anticipated from USAID (S 1.5 million), Japan
General Tax Directorate. Total cost: $30 million.  (S700,000), and the UNDP/IDB (S300,000).
BANGLADESH: IDA-S25 million. A sixth            Total cost: $14.1 million.
technical-assistance project will provide the  GUINEA-BISSAU: 1DA-S7.2 million. Economic-
government with funding for the preparation of  management capacity will be enhanced through
investment projects, in general, and, more    provision of technical assistance and training
particularly, for investments related to ID's  designed to strengthen the government's


﻿Transoortation  171
analytical ability to manage and monitor    Telecommunications
economic policy, enhance domestic technical
capacity and skills in economic policymaking and  INDONESIA: IBRD-$375 million. Sector
management. and increase the effectiveness of  performance will he enhanced by promoting a
public administration. Total cost: $8 million.  regulatory regime conducive to competition in
INDONESIA: IBRD-$12 million. Technical          the provision of telecom services, and growing
assistance will be provided to assist the      demand for services will be met through the
government implement the five-year             rehabilitation of existing facilities, the installation
development program of the newly established   of switching equipment for the local cable
Environmental Impact Management Agency.       network, and the installation and upgrading
Cofinancing ($400,000) has been provided by    of fiber optic-transmission and microwave-
Japan. Total cost: $15 million.                transmission facilities to improve long-distance
MONGOLIA: IDA-$5 million. This first-ever        service. Cofinancing is expected from Japan
project in the country will help the government  (the Sumitomo Corporation and the OECF),
develop its institutional capacity for        the Netherlands (ABN-Amro Bank), the Export-
macroeconomic management in a market           Import Bank of the United States (S75 million),
economy. In addition, strategic studies in selected  Ger-any ($71 million), France (the government
sectors and subsectors key to the country's long-  and Credit Lyonnais), and Spain ($50 million).
term development will be financed. Cofinancing  Total cost: $1,353 million.
is being provided by Japan ($1.2 million) and the  NEPAL: IDA-$55 million. A fifth
UNDP ($250,000). Total cost: $6.8 million.    telecommunications project includes provision
TANZANIA: IDA-$11.2 million. An urban-sector    of equipment (a telephone-switching exchange,
engineering project has been designed to       outside plant, and ancillary equipment to connect
strengthen the institutional and financial     about 60,000 new telephone lines; digital
capacities of the country's urban councils and to  transmission links; equipment to extend data and
prepare the groundwork for subsequent         text services; switching and transmission
investment projects in urban infrastructure.  equipment to extend nationwide and international
Cofinancing (S5 million) is anticipated from   subscriber trunk dialing); and technical assistance
NORAD. Total cost: $17 million.               for institution building. Cofinancing is expected
TANZANIA: IDA-S10 million. The design work      from Denmark ($18 million), Finland ($11
for the Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric Scheme will  million), and Japan ($8.5 million). Total cost:
be completed, and new billing and accounting   $124 million.
procedures will be installed at the Tanzania
Electric Supply Company. Total cost: $11.6  Transportation
million.                                    ANGOLA: IDA-S37.7 million. Economic
TURKEY: IBRD-$9.2 million. The government        and financial-feasibility studies, as well as
will be assisted in its efforts to improve     basic engineering studies and environment
information, systems, and processes related to  assessments, for the rehabilitation and
macroeconomic management through a project     maintenance of key transport and urban systems
that will help finance investments by the      will be financed. Capacity-building assistance
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade  and training are included. Total cost: $42.5
in a data-management system and in institution-  million.
building initiatives. Total cost: $28.1 million.  BARBADOS: IBRD-$21.2 million. About 30
ZAIRE: IDA-$9.9 million. Key power-sector        percent of the country's primary and secondary-
assets will be rehabilitated, preserved, and  road systems will be upgraded, thus significantly
protected, and institutional-strengthening    reducing transport costs, traffic congestion,
assistance will be provided to the Soci6t6    and accidents. In addition, all capital works
Nationale d'Electricit6, the country's electric-  and most periodic-maintenance work will be
power utility. Total cost: $11.4 million.      transferred to the private sector, and the relative
ZAMBIA: IDA-$10 million. Technical assistance    merits of private-sector participation in carrying
and equipment will be provided for the        out routine road-maintenance activities will
development and implementation of a program of  be explored. The privatization of passenger
privatization, for the introduction of measures to  transport services will also be supported, thus
develop the private sector, for the development  reducing government subsidies to the sector.
and implementation of reforms in six utilities that  Technical assistance is included. Total cost:
will remain in the public sector, and for the  $33.2 million.
formulation and implementation of a social-  BOLIVIA: IDA-S80 million. A second road-
action plan to provide a safety net for those  maintenance project will contribute to a
affected by the government's reform program.  substantial upgrading of about one third of the
Total cost: $11 million.                       country's maintainable road network, thereby


﻿172   Summaries of Projects Approved
reducing the large backlog of maintenance and  exports and imports along the Magdalena river.
reducing vehicle-operating costs. Technical   Institution-building assistance is included. Total
assistance and training are included. Total cost:  cost: $414 million.
$240 million.                               FIJI: IBRD-S15 million. Some 147 kilometers of
BURKINA FASO: IDA-$66 million. The               roads will be upgraded, and road-traffic safety
government will be assisted in rehabilitating  and traffic management will be improved in this
and maintaining essential transport infrastructure  second Bank-supported road-upgrading project.
and in improving sectoral efficiency. Cofinancing  istitutional-strengthening measures are
is anticipated from the EDF ($99 million), the  included. Cofinancing is expected from the AsDB
AfDB (S60.6 million), CIDA ($29.8 million),   ($18 million) and the Export-Import Bank of
Germany ($28.6 million), the West African      Japan ($6.5 million). Total cost: $78 million.
Development Fund ($10.2 million), BADEA     GHANA: IDA-$55 million. A portion of the
($8.5 million), the CCCE and FAC ($7.8 million),  government s 1992-99 feeder-roads program.
the IsDB ($5.5 million), BOAD ($3.1 million),  designed to improve and expand the country's
and the UNDP ($600,000). Total cost: $463.4   feeder-road network and improve maintenance
million.                                       management, will be financed. Cofinancing is
CHILE: IBRD-$71 million. Investments will be     anticipated from USAID ($21 million), DANIDA
made in port facilities in San Vincente, San   ($15 million), the OPEC Fund for International
Antonio, and Valparaiso so that forecast traffic up  Development ($5 million), and Japan ($1.6
to the year 2000 can be handled efficiently. In  million). Total cost: $106 million.
addition, technical assistance and other port-  INDIA: IBRD-S153 million; IDA-S 153 million.
related investments, including complementary   Key sections of the national highway network,
investments designed to facilitate private-sector  totaling about 290 heavily trafficked and
involvement, will be financed. Total cost: $160.1  congested kilometers in six states, will be
million.                                       modernized, and the use of improved road-
CHINA: IBRD-$330 million. A fifth railways       engineering and construction standards, network
project will introduce, on a systemwide basis,  management, and contract management will be
advanced technology, equipment, and materials  promoted. Technical assistance is included. Total
for two key areas of railway operations-track  cost: $385.3 million.
rehabilitation and maintenance. In addition, the  INDONESIA: IBRD-$215 million. Through a
double-tracking of the 944-kilometer Zhegan line  road-maintenance-and-rehabilitation program,
will be completed, and capacity will be expanded  staff training, and institution-building assistance,
at the Xuzhou marshalling yards. Total cost:  the quality of the road network in seventy-three
$1,005.6 million.                              districts in nine provinces will be improved, and
CHINA: IBRD-$220 million. Traffic congestion,   the capability of government agencies in charge
which is constraining economic growth in the   of district roads will be enhanced. Total cost:
Hangzhou-Ningbo corridor of Zhejiang province,  $499.2 million.
will be relieved through construction of a 138-  LESOTHO: IDA-$9.8 million. An infrastructure-
kilometer highway. In addition, thirty-three   engineering project will extend IDA's capacity-
sections of the provincial and county road    enhancement efforts in the country to four key
network will be constructed or improved.       sector agencies responsible for the bulk of
Training and technical assistance are included.  Lesotho's infrastructure. The project also seeks to
Total cost: $558.8 million.                    ensure that public-works programs and related
CHINA: IDA-S15 million. The ports of Dalian,     policy changes are in line with the country's
Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Guangzhou, and      economic-development strategy and that further
Xiamen will be assisted in refurbishing existing  improvements in strategy, policy formulation,
and/or establishing new facilities for handling and  and capacity building are pursued. Total cost:
disposing of, in an environmentally sound      $12.3 million.
manner, ships' waste that would otherwise be  MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-S74.3 million. The
dumped in international or Chinese coastal waters  institutional capacity in the Ministry of
to the detriment of the marine environment.    Construction and Water and in the Ministry of
Cofinancing ($30 million) has been approved by  Transport and Communications necessary to plan
the GEF. Total cost: $64.8 million.            and supervise effectively the rehabilitation and
COLOMBIA: IBRD-$266 million. By financing a      maintenance of roads and improve small coastal
share of the five-year (1991-95) highway-     ports serving priority districts will be developed.
investment plan, about 10 percent of the national  In addition, policy reforms in the trucking and
road network will be upgraded. vehicle-operating  coastal-shipping suhsectors will be implemented.
costs will be significantly reduced, and access to  Cofinancing is expected from SIDA ($10.9
markets improved. River navigation will also be  million), the UNDP ($7.9 million), BADEA ($6.1
improved, allowing year-round movement of      million), the EC ($2.7 million), France ($2.6


﻿Urban Development   173
million), the UNCDF ($2.5 million), NORAD      the city government's sector-management
(S1.7 million), and from others ($13.3 million)-  systems. In addition, cost-effective investments
the AfDB, DANIDA, Germany, South Africa,       in industrial-pollution control, environmental
Spain, and USAID. Total cost: $144.7 million.  sanitation, and transportation will be supported.
THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$150 million. Some         Total cost: $195 million.
1,400 kilometers of deteriorated or damaged  CHINA: IDA-$60 million. Through road
arterial highways will be upgraded, rehabilitated,  improvements, traffic management, construction
strengthened, or resurfaced, thereby reducing  of nineteen kilometers of nonmotorized vehicle
transport costs and increasing the country's  roads, and provision of technical assistance, the
economic competitiveness. Institution-building  first stage of a long-term program to upgrade and
assistance to the Department of Public Works and  develop the urban-transport infrastructure of
Highways is included. Total cost: $198.7 million.  Shanghai will be launched. Total cost: S148.3
THAILAND: IBRD-$177.5 million. Investments       million.
to improve the capacity and condition of the  IRAN: IBRD-$77 million. Central Tehran, as well
national and provincial highway networks will  as low-lying areas to the south, will be protected
be financed, thus helping to meet the country's  against costly flooding through the provision of a
surging demand for road transport, relieve    stormwater-collection system. Institution-
transport bottlenecks, and sustain the country's  building assistance is icluded.Total cost: $95.6
high rate of economic growth. Total cost: $258  million.
million.                                     MALAWI: IDA-$24 million. Through policy
Urbanreform, institutional strengthening, and the
Urba  Deelopentprovision of infrastructure and services, the
ALGERIA: IBRD-$33 million. A cadastre project,  financial and administrative capacity of the local-
which aims to strengthen Algeria's capacity to  government system to provide and maintain
implement its national land-registration system,  affordable municipal services and infrastructure
to increase land registration, and to develop an  consistent with the size and growth rate of the
adequate data base for designing a sound land-  urban population will be enhanced. Cofinancing
taxation policy, will be supported. Total cost:  is expected from the UNDP ($1.7 million), the
$96 million.                                   ODA ($800,000), and USAID ($700,000). Total
ANGOLA: IDA-S45.6 million. As many as            cost: $36.3 million.
800,000 residents of the twin cities of Lobito and  MALI: IDA-$20 million. A program of essential,
Benguela will benefit from the rehabilitation of  small-scale public works, aimed at rehabilitating
water and sewer networks, the provision of clean  and maintaining urban infrastructure, will be
water and affordably priced latrines, and the  carried out by local contractors using labor-
rehabilitation of storm-drainage and solid-waste  intensive technologies. Technical assistance to
management systems. Technical assistance and   contractors and a training program for local
training are included. Cofinancing is anticipated  govemment officials and consultants is included.
from NORAD (S5 million) and SIDA ($5           Cofinancing ($6 million) is anticipated from
million). Total cost: $58.9 million.           Germany. Total cost: $28.2 million.
BENIN: IDA-S22.8 million. Ongoing programs of  MEXICO: IBRD-$450 million.The supply of
infrastructure rehabilitation and environmental  finance for low-cost housing to be built by private
sanitation in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, which   developers will be expanded, and regulatory
focus on public works so as to raise employment  barriers to housing will be removed, thus helping
and income levels of the urban poor, promote the  to lower housing costs and encourage commercial
development of local small and medium-sized   banks to increase lending for housing, especially
private enterprises, and involve nongovernmental  at the lower-income end of the market. Total cost:
organizations and residents, will be supported.  $1,594 million.
Cofinancing is expected from the FAC (S 1.3  THE PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$68 million. A third
million) and the UNDP (S450,000). Total cost:  municipal-development project seeks to improve
$26.8 million.                                the delivery of services, infrastructure, and public
BRAZIL: IBRD-$126 million. The foundations      facilities at the local level, strengthen the
for the financial, institutional, and organizational  management capacity of local governments, and
policy changes required to achieve sustainable,  improve the national government's ability to
integrated, multimodal transport in the S5o Paulo  assist cities and municipalities to respond to the
metropolitan region will be laid. Total cost: $281  needs of an increasing urban population. Total
million.                                       cost: $113.7 million.
CHINA: IDA-$100 million. Long-term             POLAND: IBRD-$200 million. Through the
improvement of Tianjin's urban infrastructure  provision of lines of credit for mortgages and
and environment is the goal of a project that seeks  construction, as well as of technical assistance,
to increase the efficiency and responsiveness of  the government's first steps in moving from a


﻿174   Summaries of Projects Approved
heavily subsidized, centrally-controlled mode of  water piping system for district heating) will be
housing production to a more efficient, market-  financed. Total cost: $304.5 million.
based system of supply through private initiative  CHINA: IDA-SI 10 million. The health and
will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated  productivity of some 9 million rural inhabitants
from the EBRD ($67 million). Total cost: $677  living in six underdeveloped inland provinces and
million.                                       autonomous regions will improve through
SENEGAL: IDA-$39 million. A second public-      increased coverage of water supply, to be
works and employment project has been designed  complemented by sanitation services, health and
to create low-cost, short-term employment      hygiene education, technical assistance, and
opportunities using private-sector enterprises in  training. Total cost: $189.1 million.
the execution of social and economic public  CYPRUS: IBRD-S32 million. The drainag and
works. Institution-building assistance is included,  wastewater-disposal problems in Larnaca, Ayia
as is training of local contractors who are awarded  Napa, and Paralimni, three towns on the southeast
public-works contracts. Cofinancing, totaling $15  coast of the country, will be tackled, thus
million, is expected from the AfDB, CIDA, the  contributing substantially towards environmental
EC, and the WFP Total cost: $81 million.     improvement and protection of the country's
UGANDA: IDA-$71.2 million. Short-term and        critically important tourism industry. Cofinancing
medium-term reconstruction of essential       ($32 million) is anticipated from the CERE Total
economic and social infrastructure in secure areas  cost: $103.3 million.
of the north will be financed so as to restore the  IRAN: IBRD-$57 million. Through the
region's economic productivity and begin the  rehabilitation and upgrading of dikes along the
process of reducing the historical disparity  southern shore of Lake Hirmand, along both sides
between the north and south of the country.    of the Sistan river, and along the Niatak floodway,
Cofinancing is anticipated from DANIDA (510.5  flood-related risks to human life will be reduced
million) and the Netherlands ($6.4 million). Total  and damage to property and infrastructure
cost: $98.2 million.                           prevented; other benefits include health
VENEZUELA: IBRD-$40 million. The                improvements to the population, protection of
environmental and sanitary conditions of about  archaeological sites, and preservation of wetlands
230.000 low-income inhabitants of city slums   and land-based habitats. Total cost: SI10 million.
will improve as a result of a pilot project that has  KENYA: IDA-$43.2 million. The National Water
also been designed to lay the institutional    Conservation and Pipeline Corporation will be
foundations for stronger municipal government.  assisted in carrying out a preparatory project
Total cost: $85.5 million.                     (to be followed by a major project) aimed at
Wimproving and extending the water-supply and
Wate Suplyand  eweagewastewater-disposal systems in Mombasa and
BRAZIL: IBRD-$250 million. By helping finance    other locations in the coastal region. Institution-
a time-slice of the six-year investment program of  building assistance is included. Total cost: $48.7
the state water companies of Bahia, Mato Grosso  million.
do Sul, and Santa Catarina, some 4.3 million  KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$40 million.
additional people in hundreds of cities and towns  Sewage-treatment plants will be built in Pusan
in those states will be provided with water-supply  and Taejon, thus reducing pollution in Korea's
and sewerage services. Institution-building    water courses and coastal waters, as well as
assistance is included. Total cost: $500 million.  associated health hazards. Technical assistance
BURUNDI: IDA-$32.7 million. Public health and   is included. Total cost: $272.1 million.
living conditions will improve through the   LESOTHO: IBRD-S110 million. The first phase
construction of rural water-supply systems in nine  of a thirty-year scheme to export water to the
of the country's fifteen provinces and through the  industrial heartland of South Africa-involving
catchment and development of about 3,000       the construction of facilities to permit water
springs. Institution-building assistance to the  transfers of up to 18 m3/SeCand the installation
Department of Rural Water Resources and        of 72-mW capacity of hydropower-will be
Electrification is included. Cofinancing is    supported. Donor cofinancing is anticipated from
expected from the AGCD ($12.6 million) and     the EDF (S57 million), the AfDB ($50 million),
Germany ($6.2 million). Total cost: 554.7     the CDC (S36.1 million), the EIB ($20 million),
million.                                       France ($8.7 million), the ODA ($1.3 million).
CHINA: IBRD    S45 million; IDA-S80 million.     Germany ($800,000), Ireland ($400,000), and the
The environmental-planning and management      UNDP ($250,000), while discussions involving
capabilities of Beijing municipality agencies will  cofinancing totaling $106.7 million are
be strengthened, and specific pollution-abatement  continuing with other bilateral donors. Export-
investments (including construction of sewer   credit financing is expected from Herm6s ($118
systems, a sanitary landfill, and a pressurized hot  million), the SACE ($107 million). COFACE


﻿Water Supply and Sewerage  175
($104 million), and the ECGD ($82 million);  NIGERIA: IDA-$101 million. The quantity and
in addition, some $67 million in commercial-  reliability of water supply in the more important
bank financing is being negotiated. Total cost:  towns and settlements of Katsina and Kaduna
$2,415 million.                               states will be improved, thus helping meet the
MAURITANIA: IDA-$10.5 million. The mid-          basic needs for water of about I million people,
term investment program of the Socit6 National  about half of whom are at or below the poverty
d'Eau et d'Electricit6 in the water sector, which  level. In addition, technical assistance will be
covers the most urgent rehabilitation and      provided to help commercialize the water boards
extension works, will be financed. In addition,  of the two states. Total cost: $128.2 million.
the technical groundwork for the other works
included in the investment program will be
undertaken. Total cost: $13.8 million.


﻿176    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-1. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1992,
by Region
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans          IDA credits           Total
Region and country                      Number    Amount    Number    Amount    Number    Amount
Africa
Africa  region  ......................  -           -        1         5.5       1         5.5
Angola............................     -           -        4        143.9      4        143.9
Benin .............................     -           -        2        36.9       2        36.9
Burkina Faso......................     -           -        3        109.0      3        109.0
Burundi...........................      -           -        3        79.7       3        79.7
Cameroon.........................       1          23      -           -        1        23.0
Cape  Verde  .......................    -           -        1         4.2       1         4.2
Central African Republic............    -           -        1        25.8       1        25.8
C6te  dIvoire  ..................... . . 3        350.0      1       115.0       4       465.0
Equatorial Guinea ..................    -           -        1         5.5       1         5.5
Ethiopia...........................    -           -        1       150.0       1        150.0
Ghana  ............................     -           -        5       288.9       5       288.9
Guinea............................     -           -        1         7.3       1         7.3
Guinea-Bissau  .....................    -           -        1        10.1       1         10.1
Kenya  ............................     -           -        5       338.9       5       338.9
Lesotho...........................      1        110.0      2        35.0       3        145.0
M adagascar  .......................    -           -        1        24.1       1        24.1
M alawi............................    -           -        3       204.2       3       204.2
M ali ..............................    -           -        3        46.4       3        46.4
Mauritania  ........................    -           -        2        28.7       2        28.7
Mauritius..........................     2         20.4     -           -        2        20.4
Mozambique.......................      -           -        3       289.3       3       289.3
Niger  .............................    -           -        2        35.6       2        35.6
Nigeria............................      2        110.0      2        126.0      4       236.0
Rwanda...........................      -           -        1        19.1       1         19.1
Sdo Tome and Principe ..............   -           -        2        21.2       2        21.2
Senegal  ...........................    -           -        1        43.7       1        43.7
Sierra  Leone  ...................... . -           -        2        64.4       2        64.4
Sudan.............................     -           -        1         16.0      1         16.0
Tanzania..........................     -           -        4       250.8       4       250.8
Uganda  ...........................     -           -        3       263.4       3       263.4
Zaire  .............................    -           -        2        26.6       2        26.6
Zambia  ...........................                 -        2       220.0       2       220.0
Zimbabwe.........................       1        125.0      1       200.0       2       325.0
Total  ...........................    10        738.4     67      3.235.2     77      3,973.6
East Asia
China.............................      8      1.577.7      8       948.6      16      2,526.3
Fiji................................     1         15.0     -           -        1         15.0
Indonesia  .........................    10      1,587.4     -           -       10      1,587.4
Korea, Republic of ................. .   4        220.0     -           -        4       220.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic ...    -           -        1        40.0       1        40.0
Malaysia..........................      2        294.0     -           -        2       294.0
M aldives..........................    -           -        1        10.0       1         10.0
M ongolia..........................    -           -        2        35.0       2        35.0
Papua New Guinea ................. ..    1         27.0     -           -        1        27.0
Philippines  ....................... . . 4        394.3      1        36.0       5       430.3
Thailand  ..........................     3        271.5     -           -        3       271.5
Total  . ......................   ...  33    4,386.9     13      1,069.6     46      5,456.5
South Asia
Bangladesh........................      -           -        4       253.0       4       253.0
India..............................      5      1,168.0      6      1.023.5     11      2,191.5


﻿Projects Approved by Region   177
IBRD loans         IDA credits           Total
Region and country                     Number    Amount   Number    Amount   Number     Amount
South Asia (continued)
Nepal.............................    -           -        3       150.6      3        150.6
Pakistan...........................     1       180.0      2       144.2      3        324.2
Sri Lanka  .........................    -          -        2        69.5      2         69.5
Total  ...........................     6     1,348.0     17     1,640.8     23      2,988.8
Europe and Central Asia
Albania  ...........................    -          -        1       41.1       1         41.1
Bulgaria...........................     1      250.0      -          -        1        250.0
Cyprus............................      1       32.0      -          -        1         32.0
Czechoslovakia ....................      1      246.0      -          -        1        246.0
Hungary  ..........................      1      200.0      -          -        1        200.0
Poland............................      3       390.0     -          -        3        390.0
Romania  ..........................      3      650.0      -          -        3        650.0
Turkey............................      3       334.2     -          -        3        334.2
Total  ...........................    13     2,102.2      1        41.1     14      2,143.3
Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina  .........................     3      373.0      -          -        3        373.0
Barbados..........................      1       21.2      -          -        1         21.2
Belize.............................     1        7.1      -          -        1          7.1
Bolivia............................    -          -      3.0       152.9      3        152.9
Brazil.............................      5      798.0      -          -        5        798.0
Chile  .............................     5      380.2      -          -        5        380.2
Colombia..........................      2       366.0     -          -        2        366.0
Costa Rica  ........................     2       64.0      -          -        2         64.0
Ecuador...........................      2       173.0     -          -        2        173.0
El Salvador........................     1        11.0     -          -        1         11.0
Guyana  ...........................     -          -        1        13.4       1        13.4
Haiti..............................    -          -        1        26.1      1         26.1
Honduras  .........................     -          -        2       92.3       2         92.3
M exico  ...........................     6     1,489.0     -          -        6       1,489.0
Nicaragua.........................     -          -        1       120.3      1        120.3
Panama.............................     I       120.0     -          -        1        120.0
Paraguay..........................      1       29.0      -          -        1         29.0
Peru..............................       3     1.000.0     -          -        3       1,000.0
Trinidad and Tobago .................    1       27.0      -          -        1         27.0
Venezuela.........................       3      398.0      -          -        3        398.0
Total  .......................... . . 37     5,256.5      8       405.0     45      5.661.5
Middle East and North Africa
Algeria............................     4      215.0      -          -        4        215.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of ............     2      265.0       2       110.8      4        375.8
Iran. Islamic Republic of ............   2       134.0     -          -        2        134.0
Morocco...........................       2      325.0      -          -        2        325.0
Tunisia............................     3      385.0      -          -        3        385.0
Yemen, Republic of ................ .   -          -        2        47.2      2         47.2
Total  ...........................    13     1,324.0      4       158.0     17       1,482.0
Grand total .......................112      15,156.0    110     6,549.7    222     21,705.7
- Zero.
NOTE: Supplements are included in the amounts, but are not counted as separate lending operations.
Joint IBRD/IDA operations are counted only once, as IBRD operations.


﻿178    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-2. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1992, by
Sector
(millions of US dollars)
Sector'                                                      IBRD            IDA           Total
Agriculture and Rural Development
Algeria-Forestry     ..................................      25.0            -            25.0
Algeria-Irrigation and drainage .....................        57.0            -            57.0
Bangladesh-Forestry ...............................           -            49.6           49.6
Benin-Forestry     ...................................                     14.1           14.1
Bolivia-Area development ...... ....................          -            22.5           22.5
Brazil- Area development...........................         167.0           -            167.0
Brazil- Area development...........................         205.0           0.0          205.0
Burkina Faso-Agriculture sector loan. . ..............        -            28.0           28.0
Cameroon-Agriculture sector loan ..................          23.0            -            23.0
Central African Republic-Agriculture sector loan              -            25.8           25.8
Chile- Agriculture  sector loan  .......................     95.0            -            95.0
China- Agricultural credit...........................        -           162.0          162.0
China-Irrigation and drainage.......................  ....-             125.0          125.0
Costa Rica-Agriculture sector loan ..................        41.0           -             41.0
Ecuador-Area development ........................            84.0           -             84.0
Egypt. Arab Republic of-Irrigation and drainage ......      45.0           75.0          120.0
Ghana-Agricultural credit .......................... ..   ..-             80.0           80.0
Ghana-Agriculture sector loan ...................... ...      -            30.4           30.4
H aiti- Forestry  ....................................        -            26.1           26.1
India- Fishing  .....................................         -            85.0           85.0
India- Forestry  ....................................         -           124.0          124.0
India- Forestry  ....................................         -            34.0           34.0
Indonesia-Agricultural credit ......................        106.1           -            106.1
Indonesia-Irrigation and drainage ........... ....... ...  225.0           -            225.0
Indonesia- Perennial crops ........................ .. . .   87.6           -             87.6
Kenya-  Agricultural credit ..........................        -            60.5           60.5
Malawi-Agriculture sector adjustment program                  -             5.2            5.2b
Malaysia-Area development........................           94.0           -             94.0
M aldives- Fishing..................................         -            10.0           10.0
Mali- Agricultural credit ............................ .      -            20.4           20.4
Mexico-Irrigation and drainage .................... ..      400.0            -           400.0
Mexico-Irrigation and drainage ..................... ..      50.0            -            50.0
Mexico-Research and extension ....................          150.0            -           150.0
Morocco-Agriculture sector loan....... ..............       50.0            -             50.0
Mozambique-Agriculture sector loan ... ........... ...       -            35.0           35.0
Niger-Research and extension ...................... ..       -            18.0           18.0
Nigeria-Agriculture sector loan ............... .......      67.5           -             67.5
Nigeria-Area development ............. ........... ..         0.0          25.0           25.0
Nigeria-Research and extension ...................           42.5            -            42.5
Pakistan-Agriculture sector loan ...................          -            29.2           29.2
Papua New Guinea-Perennial crops . .... ...........         27.0            -             27.0
Paraguay-Area development ... .................... ..       29.0            -            29.0
Romania-Agricultural credit ................... ..... .  .100.0             -            100.0
Sio Tom6 and Principe-Agriculture sector loan .......         -             9.8            9.8
Sri Lanka-Agriculture sector loan ....... ........... ...    -            14.3           14.3
Sudan-  Agriculture sector loan  ......................       -            16.0           16.0
Tanzania-Agriculture sector loan  ....................        -            11.3           11.3b
Tanzania- Forestry.......................... .......          -            18.3           18.3
Turkev-Research and extension..................... ..        55.0            -            55.0
Venezuela-Agriculture sector loan ..................        300.0            -           300.0


﻿Projects Approved by Sector  179
Sectora                                                    IBRD           IDA           Total
Agriculture and Rural Development (continued)
Yemen-Irrigation and drainage..... .................       -              32.8         32.8
Yemen-Research and extension .....................         -              14.4         14.4
Zaire-Research and extension ......................         -             16.7         16.7
Zimbabwe-Agriculture sector loan ..................        -             150.0        150.0
Total............................................      2,525.7       1,368.4       3,894.1
Development Finance Companies
Bangladesh  ........................................       -             25.5          25.5
Bangladesh  ........................................       -              2.9           2.9b
B razil.............................................       50.0         -             50.0
B urundi  ...........................................      -              17.0         17.0
Colom bia..........................................       100.0         -            100.0
C  te  d'lvoire  . .....................................   150.0          50.0        200.0
C6te  d'1voire: ......................................      75.0          25.0        100.0
G hana.............................................        -             100.0        100.0
Guinea-Bissau  .. ....................................     -              2.9           2'9b
Peru  ...............................................     400.0         -            400.0
Trinidad  and  Tobago................................       27.0         -             27.0
Total............................................       802.0         223.3       1,025.3
Education
A ngola............................................       -              27.1         27.1
B elize.............................................        7.1         -              7.1
Chile..  ............. ...........................        170.0         -            170.0
C hina.............................................        -            130.0        130.0
Costa  Rica.........................................        23.0         -             23.0
COte  d'Ivoire  ......................................     125.0          25.0        150.0
Ecuador...........................................         89.0         -             89.0
G hana.............................................         -             17.4         17.4
Indonesia..........................................        37.0         -             37.0
Indonesia..........................................         69.5         -             69.5
Indonesia..........................................         36.6         -             36.6
K enya  . ...........................................      -             100.0        100.0
K enya  ............................................       -             55.0          55.0
Korea, Republic  of  .................................      50.0         -             50.0
Korea, Republic  of .................................      30.0          -             30.0
Lesotho  ...........................................       -             25.2          25.2
M adagascar........................................        -             22.8          22.8
M auritius..........................................        5.4         -              5.4
M exico............................................        189.0         -            189.0
M exico............................................        250.0         -            250.0
N epal.............................................       -             30.6          30.6
Pakistan .............................................-                 115.0        115.0
Philippines.........................................       -              36.0         36.0
Philippines.........................................        85.0         -             85.0
Tunisia............................................        75.0         -             75.0
Venezuela .........................................         58.0         -             58.0
Total.............................     ..............  1299.6          584.1       1,883.7
(continued)


﻿180    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-2 (continued)
Sectora                                                      IBRD            IDA           Total
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal
A lgeria........................ ...................         100.0           -            100.0
A ngola ........................ ..................            -           33.5           33.5
A rgentina..........................................        28.0            -             28.0
Czechoslovakia  ....................................        246.0            -           246.0
H onduras..........................................            -           50.6           50.6
H onduras..........................................           -           31.5           31.5b
India..............................................         150.0          -             150.0
Korea, Republic  of .................................        100.0          -             100.0
Pakistan. ..........................................         180.0           -            180.0
T unisia............................................         60.0            -            60.0
T otal............................................       864.0         115.6          979.6
Power
C hina  .............................................        30.0          37.0           67.0
C hina.............................................         310.0           -            310.0
C hina.. ...........................................         180.0          -             180.0
C hina.............................................        380.0            -           380.0
Egypt, Arab  Republic of ............................       220.0           -            220.0
India ..............................................       265.0            -           265.0
India.......    ............ ...................           350.0            -           350.0
Indonesia..........................................        423.6           -            423.6
Malawi............................................... ..........55.0                     55.0
M alaysia  . .........................................      200.0            -           200.0
M auritius..........................................          15.0          -              15.0
N epal..... ... ..................... ..............           -           65.0           65.0
Philippines.........................................        91.3           -             91.3
Sierra Leone........................................ .21.0                               21.0
Sri  L anka  . ........................................                    50.0           50.0
Thailand...........................................         54.0            -            54.0
Thailand................... ...................              40.0            -            40.0
Turkey............................................          270.0            -            270.0
Total............................................        2.828.9        228.0         3,056.9
Industry
China- Industry  sector loan ........................ . . .  82.7            -             82.7
Mali- Mining, other extractive.......................          -            6.0            6.0
Peru-Industry sector loan ........ ................. ...    300.0           -            300.0
Tanzania-Industry sector loan ......................           -          200.0          200.0
Zambia-  Industry  sector loan................  ........ .-               200.0           200.0
T otal............................................       382.7         406.0           788.7
Nonproject
A lbania  ...........................................-                     41.1           41.1
Bangladesh  ........................................           -          150.0           150.0
Bolivia................................................                  -  40.0       40.0
B olivia.................. .........................          -           10.4            10.4b
B ulgaria...........................................        250.0           -            250.0
B urundi . ............................... ..........          -           30.0           30.0
Ethiopia............................ ... ..........            -          150.0           150.0
G hana.............................................            -            6.1            6.1
G uyana  ..... ............................ ..........-                     3.1            3. b
India..............................................        250.0         250.0          500.0


﻿Projects Approved by Sector  181
Sector'                                                    JBRD           IDA           Total
Nonproject (continued)
Kenya ..    ....... .................................      -             49.2          49.2b
Lao People's Democratic Republic ...................       -             40.0          40.0
M alaw i............................................      -             120.0        120.0
M ongolia..........................................       -             30.0          30.0
M orocco  . .........................................      275.0         -            275.0
M ozam bique.......................................       -             180.0        180.0
N icaragua  . ........................................-                  110.0        110.0
N icaragua  .........................................      -              10.3         10.3"
Panam a  . ..........................................      120.0         -            120.0
Peru  ..............................................       300.0         -            300.0
Rom ania  ..........................................       400.0         -            400.0
Senegal  ...........................................       -              4.7           4.7b
Sierra  Leone.......................................      -             43.1          43.1
Sierra  Leone.......................................      -              0.3           0.3b
Sri  Lanka  .........................................      -               5.2          5.2b
Tunisia............................................        250.0         -            250.0
U ganda  ...........................................       -             125.0        125.0
U ganda  . ..........................................-                     1.6          1.6b
Zam bia............................................       -              10.0         10.0b
Zim babw e..........................................       125.0         50.0         175.0
Total............................................     1,970.0       1,460.1      3,430.1
Population, Health, and Nutrition
C hile..............................................       27.0         -             27.0
C hina  . ............................................     -             129.6        129.6
Egypt  .............................................       -             26.8          26.8
Equatorial Guinea...........................             -              5.5           5.5
G uyana  ...........................................       -              10.3         10.3
Honduras..........................................         -              10.2         10.2
India..............................................       -              79.0         79.0
India..............................................       -             214.5        214.5
India..............................................       -             84.0          84.0
K enya  . ...........................................      -             31.0          31.0
M auritania.........................................       -              15.7         15.7
N iger  . ............................................     -              17.6         17.6
Poland  ............................................       130.0         -            130.0
Romania ..........................................         150.0         -            150.0
R w anda  ...........................................      -              19.1         19.1
Sio  Tome  and  Principe  .............................-                 11.4         11.4
Total............................................        307.0         654.7        961.7
Public-sector Management
Argentina..........................................       325.0         -            325.0
G uinea. ...........................................       -              7.3           7.3
H ungary...........................................       200.0          -            200.0
M adagascar........................................        -               1.3          1.3"
M auritania.........................................                     2.5           2.5b
U ganda  ...........................................-                    65.6          65.6
Total............................................       525.0          76.7        601.7
Small-scale Enterprises
Poland ............................................         60.0         -             60.0
Total.....  .......................................      60.0          0.0          60.0
(continued)


﻿182    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-2 (continued)
Sector'                                                      IBRD            IDA           Total
Technical Assistance
Africa  region.......................................         -            5.5            5.5
Argentina .........................................         20.0           -             20.0
Bangladesh ....................................                -25.0                     25.0
Burkina  Faso  ......................................                      15.0            15.0
C ape  V erde........................................                       4.2            4.2
C hile. .............................................         17.2          -              17.2
C ote  d'lvoire  ......................................                    15.0            15.0
Egypt, Arab  Republic  of ............................         -            9.0            9.0
El  Salvador........................................         11.0          -              11.0
G uinea-Bissau......................................           -            7.2             7.2
Indonesia..........................................          12.0          -              12.0
Mongolia.........................                      -.5.0                               5.0
T anzania  ..........................................                      11.2            11.2
Tanzania  .. ........................................          -           10.0            10.0
T urkey  ............................................         9.2            -             9.2
Zaire...............     .................        ......... ........  -   9.9            9.9
Z am bia............................................           -           10.0            10.0
Total. ............................................        69.4         127.0          196.4
Telecommunications
Indonesia..........................................         375.0           -            375.0
Nepal..................................       ......... ...........  -   55.0           55.0
Total.........................                            375.0          55.0          430.0
Transportation
Angola-Transportation sector loan ..................           -           37.7           37,7
Barbados-  Highways...............................           21.2           -             21.2
Bolivia-Highways .................................... -                  80.0           80.0
Burkina Faso-Transportation sector loan ............           -           66.0           66.0
Chile-Transportation sector loan...................         71.0            -            71.0
China- Ports and  waterways  ........................          -           15.0            15.0
China- Railways...................................         330.0           -            330.0
China- Railways...................................         220.0            -           220.0
Colombia-  Highways...............................         266.0            -           266.0
Fiji- Highways ....................................           15.0          -              15.0
Ghana-  Highways..................................            -           55.0            55.0
India- Highways...................................           153.0        153.0          306.0
Indonesia- Highways.... ..........................         215.0           -            215.0
Lesotho- Highways  ................................            -            9.8            9.8
Mozambique-Highways ............. ...............              -           74.3           74.3
Philippines-Transportation sector loan...............        150.0           -            150.0
Thailand-Highways .....      ...........................     177.5           -            177.5
Total............................................       1,618.7        490.8         2,109.5
Urban Development
A lgeria............................................         33.0           -             33.0
A ngola. ...........................................           -           45.6           45.6
B enin  .............................................          -           22.8           22.8
Brazil.............................................          126.0          -             126.0
China .....................................                    -           60.0           60.0


﻿Projects Approved by Sector  183
Sector'                                                   IBRD           IDA          Total
China.............................................          -          100.0          100.0
Iran, Islamic Republic of ......... ............  ..... .. . 77.0        -            77.0
M alawi............................................         -           24.0          24.0
M ali . .............................................       -           20.0          20.0
M exico............................................      450.0           -           450.0
Philippines.........................................      68.0           -            68.0
Poland  ............................................     200.0           -            200.0
Senegal  .... .......................................       -           39.0          39.0
Uganda  .............................................      -           71.2          71.2
Venezuela.........................................        40.0           -            40.0
Total................  ...........................     994.0         382.6        1,376.6
Water Supply and Sewerage
Brazil.............................................     250.0           -           250.0
Burundi. ..........................................         -           32.7          32.7
C hina. ............................................      45.0          80.0          125.0
C hina .............................................       -          110.0          110.0
C yprus............................................      32.0           -            32.0
Iran, Islamic  Republic of .................................  57.0       -            57.0
K enya  ............................................        -           43.2          43.2
Korea, Republic  of .................................     40.0           -            40.0
Lesotho...........................................        110.0          -            110.0
M auritania.........................................        -           10.5           10.5
N igeria............................................        -          101.0          101.0
Total............................................      534.0         377.4         911.4
Grand total .....................................    15,156.0      6.549.7       21,705.7
- Zero.
NOTE: For additional details, see Tables 7-3 and 7-4.
a. Many projects include activity in more than one sector or subsector.
b. Supplementary financing to a previous loan, not counted as a separate operation.


﻿184    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-3. Statement of IBRD Loans Approved during Fiscal Year 1992
Principal
amount
Borrower or guarantor and purpose                       Date of approval Maturities  (USS millions)
Algeria
Sahara Regional Development Project ....................  24-Sep-91  1997/2008     57.0
Cadastre Project ......................................  11-Jun-92   1998/2009     33.0
Pilot Forestry and Watershed Management Project ........ .11-Jun-92  1998/2009     25.0
Algeria (Guarantor)
First Petroleum  Project .................................  30-Jul-91  1997/2008  100.0
Argentina
Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) ...........     .. . 30-Jul-91   1996/2008    325.0
Second Tax Administration Project ......................  14-Apr-92  1997/2009     20.0
Argentina (Guarantor)
Hydrocarbon Sector Engineering Project ................. . 19-Nov-91  1997/2008    28.0
Barbados
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project ......  23-Jun-92  1997/2007    21.2
Belize
Primary Education Development Project............ ..... . 05-Dec-91  1997/2009      7.1
Brazil
Water Sector Modernization Project ......................  10-Mar-92  1997/2007   250.0
Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project ......... . 17-Mar-92  1997/2007    167.0
Sdo Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization
Project...................... .............. .  .... ...  31-M ar-92  1997/2007  126.0
Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Project ....... . 18-Jun-92  1998/2007    2105.0
Brazil (Guarantor)
National Industrial Pollution Control Project ...............  28-May-92  1997/2007  50.0
Bulgaria
Structural Adjustment Loan .............................  01-Aug-91  1996/2008    250.0
Cameroon
Food  Security  Project  ...................  .............. .  02-Jul-91  1997/201 1  23.0
Chile
Second Public Sector Management Project (PSM I) .......  03-Oct-91  1996/2008     17.2
Primary Education Improvement Project... .............. . 03-Oct-91  1996/2008    170.0
Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project ...  17-Dec-91  1998/2008  27.0
Transport Infrastructure Project ........................ . . 17-Dec-91  1997/2009  71.0
Small Farmer Services Project ............ .............. . 21-May-92  1998/2009   95.0
China
Ertan  Hydroelectric Project ............................ .  02-Jul-91  2001/2011  380.0
Fifth  Railway  Project...................................  24-Sep-91  1997/2011  330.0
Daguangba Multipurpose Project.....................  ...  31-Oct-91  1997/2011     30.0
Beijing Environmental Project .......................... .  19-Nov-91  1997/2012   45.0
Yanshi Thermal Power Project  ..........................  14-Jan-92  1997/2011     180.0
Regional Cement Industry Project ........................  17-Mar-92  1997/2012    82.7
Zouxian Thermal Power Project .........................  21-Apr-92  1997/2012    310.0
Zheijiang Provincial Highway Project.....................  19-May-92  1998/2012   220.0
Colombia (Guarantor)
IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project . . . ..............  24-Mar-92  1997/2009  100.0
Third National Roads Sector Project ........... ......... . 26-Mar-92  1997/2009  266.0
Costa Rica
Basic Education Rehabilitation Project .......... ....... .. 12-Nov-91  1997/2008  23.0
Agricultural Sector Investment and Institutional
Development Project.......................   ... ....19-Mar-92    1997/2009     41.0


﻿Statement of IBRD Loans  185
Principal
amount
Borrower or guarantor and purpose                      Date of approval Maturities  (USS millions)
C6te d'lvoire
Financial Sector Adjustment Program ....................  01-Oct-91  1997/2011   150.0
Competitiveness and Regulatory Reform Adjustment
Program .............................................  20-Dec-91  1997/2011     75.0
Human Resources Development Program ................. .20-Dec-91    1997/2011    125.0
Cyprus (Guarantor)
Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage Project (LSDB) ..  30-Aug-91  1997/2006     14.7
Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage Project (PSB).....  30-Aug-91  1997/2006    11.3
Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage Project (ANSB)...  30-Aug-91  1997/2006      6.0
Czechoslovakia (Guarantor)
Power and Environmental Improvement Project . . . ........  26-May-92  1997/2007  246.0
Ecuador
Rural Development Project ... .........................  . 16-Jul-91  1996/2011   84.0
First Social Development Project ... ............... .... ... 17-Dec-91  1997/2011  89.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of
National Drainage  Project ...............................  26-Nov-91  1997/2011  45.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of (Guarantor)
Kureimat Power Project ...... .......... ...... ..........05-Mar-92  1997/2012   220.0
El Salvador
Power Sector Technical Assistance Project ............... . 11 -Jul-91  1996/2011  11.0
Fiji
Second Road  Upgrading Project ........................ . . 18-Jun-92  1998/2009  15.0
Hungary (Guarantor)
Enterprise Reform  Loan  ................................  07-Apr-92  1997/2007  200.0
India
Oil and Gas Sector Development Project ................. . 23-Jul-91  1997/2011  150.0
Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit .......... ............ . 05-Dec-91  1997/2012  250.0
Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project ........... . 28-Jan-92  1997/2012  265.0
Second National Highway Project ... ................... .12-May-92  1997/2012    153.0
Second Maharashtra Power Project ......................  25-Jun-92  1997/2012    350.0
Indonesia
Irrigation Subsector 11 (0 & M) Project...................  23-Jul-91  1997/2011  225.0
Agricultural Financing Project .......................... .  05-Sep-91  1997/2011  106.1
Third Nonformal Education Project ......................  20-Dec-91  1997/2012    69.5
Primary Education Quality Improvement Project .......... . 24-Mar-92  1997/2012   37.0
BAPEDAL Development Technical Assistance Project .....  31-Mar-92   1997/2012     12.0
Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project ..............  30-Apr-92  1998/2012    87.6
Fourth Telecommunications Project ......................  02-Jun-92  1998/2012   375.0
Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project ............. . 17-Jun-92  1998/2012   215.0
Primary School Teacher Development Project ............. . 24-Jun-92  1998/2012   36.6
Suralaya Thermal Power Project ... ..................... .24-Jun-92  1998/2012   423.6
Iran, Islamic Republic of
Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation Project........... .28-May-92  1997/2009  57.0
Iran, Islamic Republic of (Guarantor)
Tehran Drainage Project ...............................  28-May-92  1997/2009     77.0
Korea, Republic of
Gas System  Expansion Project ..........................  05-Nov-91  1997/2006   100.0
Pusan and Taejon Sewerage Project ............... ... .. ..26-Mar-92  1997/2007   40.0
Vocational Schools Development Project ........ ........ . 12-May-92  1997/2007   30.0
Science Education and Libraries Computerization Project  12-May-92  1997/2007     50.0
(continued)


﻿186    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-3 (continued)
Principal
amount
Borrower or guarantor and purpose                      Date of approval Maturities  (USS millions)
Lesotho (Guarantor)
Lesotho Highlands Water Project (Phase IA) ..............  23-Jul-91  1997/2009  110.0
Malaysia (Guarantor)
Power System Development Project ......................  25-Feb-92  1997/2009    200.0
Third FELCRA Land Development Project ............... . 09-Jun-92   1997/2009     94.0
Mauritius
Industrial and Vocational Training Project ................  05-Sep-91  1997/2008  5.4
Sugar Energy Development Project ......................  31-Mar-92  1997/2009     15.0
Mexico (Guarantor)
Primary  Education  Project ..............................  26-Sep-91  1997/2008  250.0
Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project ... ................ .03-Dec-91  1997/2008  400.0
Environmental Project ..... ............................  . 14-Apr-92  1997/2007  50.0
Agricultural Technology  Project ........................ . . 05-May-92  1995/2007  150.0
Science and Technology Infrastructure Project ............  26-May-92  1998/2007  189.0
Housing Market Development Project ...... ............. ..25-Jun-92  1998/2007   450.0
Morocco
Agriculture Sector Investment Loan ......................  17-Sep-91  1997/2011   50.0
Second Structural Adjustment Loan. . . ...................  30-Apr-92  1998/2012  275.0
Nigeria
National Fadama Development Project ................... .26-Mar-92  1997/2012     67.5
National Agricultural Technology Support Project .........  09-Jun-92  1997/2012  42.5
Pakistan
Domestic Energy Resources Development Project .........  25-Jun-92  1998/2012    180.0
Panama
Economic Recovery Loan....... .................... ... 20-Feb-92    1997/2009    120.0
Papua New Guinea
Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project ........... . 09-Jun-92  1997/2012   27.0
Paraguay
Land Use Rationalization Project ........... ............ ..17-Mar-92  1997/2012  29.0
Peru
Trade Policy Reform  Loan ..............................  04-Feb-92  2000/2000   300.0
Structural Adjustment Loan ........ .......... ......... ..26-Mar-92  2000/2000  300.0
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan ....................... . 17-Jun-92  2000/2000  400.0
Philippines
Highway Management Project .......................... .  20-Dec-91  1997/2012    150.0
Engineering and Science Education Project ............... . 28-Jan-92  1997/2012  85.0
Third Municipal Development Project ..................... 3 1-Mar-92  1997/2012   68.0
Philippines (Guarantor)
Rural Electrification Revitalization Project ................  25-Feb-92  1997/2012  91.3
Poland
Health Services Development Project ....... . ....... .... 07-May-92  1996/2009  130.0
Housing  Project.......................................  25-Jun-92  1996/2009    200.0
Poland (Guarantor)
Private Enterprise Development Project ....... ....... ....07-May-92  1997/2009   60.0
Romania
Health  Rehabilitation  Project ............................  01-Oct-91  1997/2008  150.0
Structural Adjustment Loan ............................ .  02-Jun-92  1998/2009  400.0
Private Farmer and Enterprise Support Project ............ .. 11-Jun-92  1998/2009  100.0


﻿Statement of 1BFD Loans  187
Principal
amount
Borrower or guarantor and purpose                         Date of approval Maturities  (USS millions)
Thailand
Fourth Highway Sector Project ..........................  19-Mar-92    1997/2009      177.5
Thailand (Guarantor)
Distribution System Upgrading Project ................... .24-Sep-91   1997/2008       40.0
Third Power System Development Project ... ........... .. 10-Dec-91   1997/2008       54.0
Trinidad and Tobago
Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Project ...  20-Dec-91  1997/2006      27.0
Tunisia
Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan ........... . 12-Dec-91    1997/2009      250.0
Higher Education Restructuring Project ..................  31-Mar-92   1997/2009       75.0
Tunisia (Guarantor)
Gas Infrastructure Development Project .............. .. 26-Nov-91    1997/2009       60.0
Turkey
Agricultural Research Project. ........................ . 21-May-92    1998/2009       55.0
Treasury Data Systems Project ..........................  28-May-92    1997/2009        9.2
Berke Hydropower Project .......................... ... .28-May-92     1998/2009      270.0
Venezuela
Agricultural Sector Investment Project ................... .03-Dec-91  1997/2006      300.0
Student Loan Reform Project............ ......... ..... ..23-Jun-92    1997/2007       58.0
Low-Income Barrios Improvement Project ................   23-Jun-92    1997/2007       40.0
Zimbabwe
Structural Adjustment Program ..........................  21-Jan-92    1997/2012      125.0
T otal  .... .   .................................................                    15,156.0
International Finance Corporation (total amount for fiscal
199 1)  .................................................                _ b          200.0
G rand  total..............................................                           15,356.0
NOTE: All loans approved in fiscal 1992 are at variable interest rates.
a. Various loans approved throughout the fiscal year.
b. Maturities vary for individual loans.


﻿188    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-4 Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1992
Principal amount
(millions)
USS
Country and purpose                           Date of approval  Maturities  SDR    equivalent
Africa region
Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project................................    19-May-92      2002/2032     4.2        5.5
Albania
Critical Imports Project ....................  25-Jun-92    2002/2032    30.0       41.1
Angola
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering
Project........ ..........  ........       16-Jul-91    2001/2026    28.3       37.7
Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental
Rehabilitation Project ....................  07-Jan-92    20022031     33.6       45.5
First Education Project ..................... 02-Jun-92     20011/2032    19.9      27.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project ......... . I -Jun-92  2001/2032   24.5       33.5
Bangladesh
Financial Sector Adjustment (supplement) ...  26-Nov-91     2000/2030     2.2        2.9
Private Sector Industrial Credit Project
(PSIC)  .................................   17-M ar-92    2002/2032     18.3      25.5
Public Resource Management Adjustment
Credit..................................  05-M ay-92     2002/2032    109.3     150.0
Sixth Technical Assistance Project ..........  18-Jun-92    2002/2032     18.3      25.0
Forest Resources Management Project .......   23-Jun-92     2002/2032    36.4       49.6
Benin
Urban Rehabilitation and Management
Project ...............................  .. 18-Feb-92     2002/2032     16.7      22.8
Natural Resources Management Project......   24-Mar-92      2002/2032     10.1      14.1
Bolivia
Structural Adjustment Program ............. .. 17-Sep-91    2001/2031    30.0       40.0
Structural Adjustment (supplement) ......... . 26-Nov-91   2001/2031     7.9       10.4
Agro-Export Development Program
(AEDP) ...........    .........             19-Dec-91     2001/2031     16.6      22.5
Second Road Maintenance Project .......... ... 18-Jun-92    2002/2032    58.6       80.0
Burkina Faso
Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Program..............................       04-Feb-92     2002/2031    49.6       66.0
Public Institutional Development Project .....  04-Jun-92   2002/2032     11.0      15.0
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit .......  09-Jun-92    2002/2032    20.6       28.0
Burundi
Water Supply Sector Project ................  16-Jul-91     2002/2031    24.2       32.7
Private Sector Development Project .........  30-Apr-92     2002/2032     12.4      17.0
Third Structural Adjustment ........... .... . 04-Jun-92   2002,2032    22.0       30.0
Cape Verde
Privatization Technical Assistance Project ...  04-Jun-92   2002/2032     3.1        4.2
Central African Republic
Agricultural Services Development Project . . .  19-May-92  2002/2032     18.8      25.8
China
Tarim  Basin  Project ....................... . 29-Aug-91   2002/2026    93.8      125.0
Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project.....  10-Sep-91     2001/2026    44.4       60.0
Daguangba Multipurpose Project ............ ..  31-Oct-91   2002/2026    28.1       37.0
Guangdong Agricultural Development
Project.................................  05-Nov-91      2002/2026    121.7     162.0


﻿Statement of IDA Credits  189
Principal amount
(millions)
US$
Country and purpose                           Date of approval  Maturities  SDR     equivalent
China (continued)
Beijing Environmental Project ..............  19-Nov-91      2002/2026    60.1       80.0
Infectious and Endemic Disease Control
Project.................................    12-Dec-91      2002/2026    95.9      129.6
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project...  11-Feb-92      2002/2027    78.9      110.0
Education Development in Poor Provinces
Project ................................ .  10-Mar-92      2002/2026    93.2      130.0
Ship Waste Disposal Project ................   17-Jun-92     2002/2027     11.0      15.0
Tianjin Urban Development and Environment
Project ................................ .   17-Jun-92     2002/2027    73.3      100.0
C6te d'Ivoire
Financial Sector Adjustment Program .......   01-Oct-91      2001/2026    37.6       50.0
Human Resources Development Program . ...     20-Dec-91      2002/2026     18.5      25.0
Competitiveness and Regulatory Reform
Adjustment Program ............... I .....  20-Dec-91      2002/2026     18.5      25.0
Privatization Support Project ............... . 05-May-92    2002/2027     10.9      15.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of
National Drainage Project .................. . 26-Nov-91     2002/2026    56.4       75.0
National Schistosomiasis Control Project ....  25-Jun-92     2002/2027     19.6      26.8
Technical Assistance Project for Privatization
and Enterprise and Banking Sector
Reforms................................    25-Jun-92      2002/2027     6.6        9.0
Equatorial Guinea
Health Improvement Project ................ . 26-Mar-92      2002/2032     3.9        5.5
Ethiopia
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction
Project ............................... ..   31-M ar-92   2002/2032    104.9     150.0
Ghana
Private Investment (supplement) ............  26-Nov-91      2001/2031     4.6        6.1
National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project ..................... . 19-Dec-91      2002/2031    40.5       55.0
Second Financial Sector Adjustment
Program................................     19-Dec-91      2002/2031    74.0      100.0
Literacy and Functional Skills Project .......  26-Mar-92    2002!2031    12.4       17.4
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program .....  26-Mar-92      2002/2031    57.0       80.0
National Agricultural Extension Project ......  26-Mar-92    2002/2031    21.8       30.4
Guinea
Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization
and Privatization Technical Assistance
Project.................................   23-Jun-92      2002/2032     5.4        7.3
Guinea-Bissau
Economic Management Project ............. ..  19-Mar-92      2002/2032     5.2        7.2
Social and Infrastructure Relief Project
(supplement)............................    05-May-92      1999/2028     2.0        2.9
Guyana
Second Structural Adjustment (supplement) .   26-Nov-91      2000/2030     2.4        3.1
SIMAP/Health, Nutrition, Water and
Sanitation  Project ....................... . 30-Apr-92    2002/2031     7.5       10.3
(continued)


﻿190    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-4 (continued)
Principal amount
(millions)
US$
Country and purpose                           Date of approval  Maturities  SDR     equivalent
Haiti
Forestry and Environmental Protection
Project.................................    24-Sep-91      2001/2031     19.7      26.1
Honduras
Energy Sector Adjustment Program .........    31-Oct-91      2002/2031    38.0       50.6
Energy Sector Adjustment (supplement) .....   26-Nov-91      2002/2031    23.8       31.5
Second Social Investment Fund Project......   25-Jun-92      2002/2032     7.4       10.2
India
Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project    17-Sep-91      2002/2026    160.9     214.5
Structural Adjustment Credit ...............  05-Dec-91      2002/2026    183.8     250.0
Shrimp and Fish Culture Project ............   14-Jan-92     2002/2027    62.9       85.0
Maharashtra Forestry Project...............   14-Jan-92     2001/2025    88.9      124.0
West Bengal Forestry Project....-..........  17-Mar-92      2002/2027    24.4       34.0
National AIDS Control Project .............  31-Mar-92      2002/2027    59.8       84.0
Second National Highway Project...-.......   12-May-92      2002/2027    116.2     153.0
Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project.......    18-Jun-92     2002/2027    57.7       79.0
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Program.......    05-Sep-91      2001/2031    75.9      100.0
Health Rehabilitation Project ...............  14-Nov-91     2002/2031    21.6       31.0
Universities Investment Project.............  14-Nov-91     2002/2031    41.3       55.0
Export Development (supplement) .........-. 26-Nov-91       2001/2030    37.3       49.2
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
Engineering and Rehabilitation Project.....  11-Feb-92     2002/2032    31.8       43.2
Protected Areas and Wildlife Services
Project-................. -...............  11-Feb-92      2002/2031    44.8       60.5
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Second Structural Adjustment Program ......   01-Oct-91      2002/2031    30.0       40.0
Lesotho
Education Sector Development Project ....      09-Jul-91     2001/2031     18.9      25.2
Infrastructure Engineering Project...........  24-Jun-92     2002/2032     7.2        9.8
Madagascar
Public Sector Adjustment (supplement) ......  26-Nov-91      1998/2028      1.0       1.3
Manpower Training Project ................. ..09-Jun-92      2002/2032    16.7       22.8
Malawi
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
(supplement)............................    26-Nov-91      2000/2030     4.0        5.2
Local Government Development Project.....     04-Jun-92      2002/2032     17.6      24.0
Power V Project .........................     17-Jun-92      2002/2032    39.2       55.0
Entrepreneurship Development and Drought
Recovery Program....................... ..23-Jun-92        2002/2032    85.4      120.0
Maldives
Third Fisheries Project.....................  07-Jan-92     2002/2031     7.6       10.0
Mali
Natural Resource Management Project ......    26-May-92      2002/2032     15.0      20.4
Public Works and Capacity Building Project,.  26-May-92      2002/2032     14.7      20.0
Mining Sector Capacity Building Project .....  17-Jun-92     2002/2032     4.4        6.0


﻿Statement of IDA Credits  191
Principal amount
(millions)
US$
Country and purpose                           Date of approval  Maturities  SDR     equivalent
Mauritania
Health and Population Project ..............  19-Nov-91      2002/2031     11.8      15.7
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
(supplement) . .. . .........................  26-Nov-91   2000/2030     1.9        2.5
Water Supply Project .....................    17-Jun-92      2002/2032     7.7       10.5
Mongolia
Economic Rehabilitation Project ............  19-Dec-91      2002/2031    22.2       30.0
Technical Assistance Project .... ............ . 19-Dec-91   2002/2031     3.7        5.0
Mozambique
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and
Development Project ....................  .1 -Feb-92       2002,'2032   25.9       35.0
First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project ....  02-Jun-92     2002/2032    54.1       74.3
Economic Recovery Program ............... .   11-Jun-92     2002/2032    132.0     180.0
Nepal
Power Sector Efficiency Project ... ....... .. 26-Mar-92    2002/2031    48.1       65.0
Basic and Primary Education Project .......   21-Apr-92      2002/2032    21.8       30.6
Fifth Telecommunications Project ........... ..12-May-92     2002/2032    40.1       55.0
Nicaragua
Economic Recovery Credit.................     26-Sep-91      2002/2031    83.5      110.0
Economic Recovery Credit (supplement).....    26-Nov-91      2002/2031     7.8       10.3
Niger
Agricultural Services Project ............... .. 21-Apr-92   2002/2032     12.9      18.0
Population Project.........................  30-Apr-92      2002/2032    12.9       17.6
Nigeria
Environmental Management Project.........     14-Apr-92      2002/2026    18.8       25.0
First Multistate Water Supply Project .......  28-May-92     2002/2027    74.7      101.0
Pakistan
Punjab Middle Schooling Project ............  14-Apr-92      2002/2027    80.5      115.0
Environmental Protection and Resource
Conservation Project ....................   11-Jun-92      2002/2027     21.4      29.2
Philippines
Second Vocational Training Project .........  18-Jun-92      2002/2027    26.4       36.0
Rwanda
Food Security and Social Action Project.....  17-Jun-92      2002/2032    14.0       19.1
Sto Tom6 and Principe
Agricultural Privatization and Smallholder
Development Project .....................   20-Dec-91      2002/2031     7.3        9.8
Health and Education Project...............   19-Mar-92      2002/2031     8.2       11.4
Senegal
Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit
(supplement) .....................  ..... . 28-Apr-92      2000/2029     3.5        4.7
Second Public Works and Employment
Project.................................    21-May-92      2002/2032    28.6       39.0
Sierra Leone
Reconstruction Import Credit (supplement)...  14-Apr-92     2002/2032     0.2        0.3
Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) .........  14-Apr-92      2002/2032    31.4       43.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project .........  21-Apr-92     2002/2032    15.3       21.0
(continued)


﻿192    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-4 (continued)
Principal amount
(millions)
US$
Country and purpose                             Date of approval  Maturities  SDR      equivalent
Sri Lanka
Second Power Distribution and Transmission
Project..........     ................       10-Sep-91      2001/2031     37.5       50.0
Economic Restructuring (supplement) .......    26-Nov-91       2000/2030      4.0        5.2
Second Agricultural Extension Project.......    09-Jun-92      2002/2032     10.5       14.3
Sudan
Emergency Drought Recovery Project .......      25-Jul-91      2002/2031     11.9       16.0
Tanzania
Urban Sector Engineering Project ........... .. 30-Jul-91     2001/2031      8.6       11.2
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit .........   14-Nov-91       2002/2031    150.2      200.0
Agricultural Adjustment (supplement) .......   26-Nov-91       2000/2029      8.6       11.3
Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project ...................  ...  . 14-Jan-92     2002/2031      7.5       10.0
Forest Resources Management Project ....1-.     I I -Feb-92    2002/2032     13.2        18.3
Uganda
Second Economic Recovery (supplement)...       26-Nov-91       2000/2029      1.2        1.6
Structural Adjustment Credit ............... .. 03-Dec-91      2002/2031     91.9      125.0
Enterprise Development Project ..... ...... . 03-Dec-91       2002/2031     49.3       65.6
Northern Reconstruction Project ............   05-May-92       2002/2032     51.9       71.2
Yemen, Republic of
Agriculture Sector Management Support
Project.................................     17-Sep-91      2001/2031     10.8       14.4
Land and Water Conservation Project .......    28-May-92       2002/2032     24.1       32.8
Zaire
SNEL Technical Assistance Project ......... .. 20-Aug-91       2001/2031      7.5        9.9
National Agricultural Research Project ......  20-Aug-91       2002/2031     12.4       16.7
Zambia
Economic Recovery Credit (supplement).....     19-May-92       2001/2030      7.6       10.0
Privatization and Industrial Reform
Technical Assistance Credit ..............    24-Jun-92      2002/2032      7.3       10.0
Privatization and Industrial Reform
Adjustment Credit ...................... . .  24-Jun-92      2002/2032    146.0      200.0
Zimbabwe
Structural Adjustment Program ............. ..  21-Jan-92      2002/2027     35.9       50.0
Emergency Drought Recovery and
Mitigation Project ....................... .  24-Jun-92      2002/2027    109.5       150.0
Total...................................                                4,818.7     6,549.7
NOTE: Starting with the sixth replenishment of IDA, credits are expressed in special drawing rights (SDRs). The US-dollar
equivalent of the original principal amount of credits denominated in SDRs is shown at the rate approved by the executive
board. All credits approved in fiscal 1992 have a service charge of 0.75 percent on the disbursed and outstanding balance.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding.


﻿Trends in Lending  193
Table 7-5. Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1990-92
1990                  1991                  1992
Sector                  IBRD    IDA    Total  IBRD   IDA     Total  IBRD    IDA    Total
Millions of US dollars
Agriculture and rural
development           1,994.5 1,661.6 3,656.1 1,913.1 1,794.2 3,707.3 2,525.7 1,368.4 3,894.1
Development finance
companies              945.0  323.7 1,268.7 1,695.0  156.8 1,851.8  802.0  223.3 1,025.3
Education                530.1  956.5 1,486.6 1,515.5  736.2 2,251.7 1,299.6  584.1 1,883.7
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal      86.0     -     86.0 1.750.0  149.2 1,899.2  864.0  115.6  979.6
Power                 2,998.5  219.8 3,218.3 1.189.0  155.0 1,344.0 2,828.9  228.0 3,056.9
Industry                 650.5  148.1   798.6 1,767.1  215.9 1,983.0  382.7  406.0  788.7
Nonproject              2,600.0  444.0 3,044.0 1,940.0  881.9 2,821.9 1,970.0 1,460.1 3,430.1
Population, health, and
nutrition               524.6  408.8  933.4  647.0  920.6 1,567.6  307.0  654.7   961.7
Public-sector management  480.0  45.6   525.6  636.0    5.7   641.7  525.0   76.7   601.7
Small-scale enterprises   50.0  157.5   207.5  166.0   45.0   211.0   60.0    -      60.0
Technical assistance      96.0   45.0   141.0  104.5   93.2   197.7   69.4  127.0   196.4
Telecommunications       592.2   24.5   616.7  270.0   69.8   339.8  375.0   55.0   430.0
Transportation          2,250.2  535.1 2,785.3  915.9  472.1 1,388.0 1.618.7  490.8 2,109.5
Urban development        702.7  299.4 1,002.1 1,077.1  178.3 1,255.4  994.0  382.6 1,376.6
Water supply and
sewerage               679.4  252.4   931.8  806.0  419.4 1,225.4  534.0  377.4   911.4
Total                  15,179.7 5,522.0 20,701.7 16,392.2 6,293.3 22,685.5 15,156.0 6,549.7 21,705.7
Percentage distribution
Agriculture and rural
development              13.1  30.1    17.7    11.7  28.5    16.3    16.7  20.9    17.9
Development finance
companies                6.2    5.9     6.1    10.3   2.5     8.2    5.3    3.4     4.7
Education                  3.5   17.3    7.2     9.2   11.7    9.9     8.6    8.9     8.7
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal       0.6     -      0.4    10.7   2.4     8.4    5.7    1.8     4.5
Power                    19.8   4.0    15.5    7.3    2.5     5.9    18.7   3.5    14.1
Industry                   4.3    2.7     3.9   10.8    3.4    8.7     2.5    6.2     3.6
Nonproject                17.1    8.0    14.7   11.8   14.0    12.4   13.0   22.3    15.8
Population, health, and
nutrition                3.5    7.4     4.5    3.9   14.6     6.9    2.0   10.0     4.4
Public-sector management   3.2    0.8    2.5     3.9    0.1    2.8     3.5    1.2     2.8
Small-scale enterprises    0.3    2.9     1.0    1.0    0.7    0.9     0.4    -       0.3
Technical assistance       0.6    0.8    0.7     0.6    1.5    0.9     0.5    1.9     0.9
Telecommunications         3.9    0.4    3.0     1.6    1.1     1.5    2.5    0.8     2.0
Transportation            14.8    9.7    13.5    5.6    7.5    6.1    10.7    7.5     9.7
Urban development          4.6    5.4    4.8     6.6    2.8    5.5     6.6    5.8    6.3
Water supply and
sewerage                 4.5    4.6    4.5     4.9    6.7    5.4     3.5    5.8     4.2
Total                    100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
- Zero.


﻿194    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-6. IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and
Region, June 30, 1992
(millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans to borrowers, by region'
Middle    Latin   Europe
East   East and  America   and
Asia and  North   and the   Central  South
Purposeb                      Africa  Pacific  Africa  Caribbean  Asia     Asia     Total
Agriculture and rural
development
Agricultural credit .......... . 319.8  886.5  1,155.9  2,660.9  1,519.4  1,078.5  7,621.0
Agriculture sector loan ......  107.3  562.3  609.0   2,943.1    569.7    226.3   5,017.7
Agroindustry .............. .. 30.0   295.2    224.2  1228.4     894.1     61.4    2,733.3
Area development ......... .1,628.6  1,599.9  258.5   3,870.4    738.0    283.2    8,378.6
Fisheries  ..................  0.0     92.7    41.0      16.2     7.0      14.0     170.9
Forestry .................. . . 349.5  78.0    121.5    116.0    221.0      0.0     886.0
Irrigation and drainage ......  110.2  3,682.7  1.232.2  2,724.5  1,421.4  814.6  9,985.6
Livestock  ................. . 170.7   80.0    46.5  1042.0     179.5    248.0    1,766.7
Perennial crops  ............ . 634.5  1,525.4  58.0    123.0     50.0      0.0   2,390.9
Research and extension .....  154.2   423.4    52.5    735.0     209.9     25.0    1,600.0
Total .................... 3,504.8  9,226.1  3,799.3  15,459.5  5,810.0  2,751.0  40,550.7
Development finance
companies ................. . 1,284.0  3,948.0  2,540.8  7,888.1  3,575.3  2,187.2  21,423.4
Education ....................  522.5  3,643.3  1,679.2  2.581.5  988.3      55.0   9,469.8
Energy
Oit, gas, and coal. . . ........  400.2  1,486.0  660.7  1,410.2  1,510.4  4,466.5  9,934.0
Power.................... .  1,782.1  9.708.7  1,887.3  11,239.7  4,413.2  8,259.6  37,290.6
Total  .............. .... . 2,182.3  11,194.7  2,548.0  12,649.9  5,923.6  12,726.1  47,224.6
Industry
Engineering  ............... . 27.7    10.0     11.0     9.5      0.0       0.0      58.2
Fertilizer and other
chemicals . ............. .... 0.0  758.0     27.0   848.5     603.9   1,570.3   3,807.7
Industry sector loan  ........  15.6  1,478.8  716.7  1,659.5  1,904.0   1,691.4  7,466.0
Iron and steel  ............. .. 20.0   0.0   231.8   1,067.0    281.0    189.0    1,788.8
Mining, other extractive .....  533.5   0.0    237.2   747.5       0.0      0.0    1,518.2
Paper and pulp  ............  48.4      5.5    50.0     20.0     209.1    104.2     437.2
Textiles  ................... . 63.0  157.4    139.6     0.0     167.7      0.0     527.7
Tourism sector loan ........  54.5     25.0    40.6    187.5     56.0       0.0     363.6
Total ....................  762.7  2,434.7  1,453.9  4,539.5  3,221.7  3,554.9  15,967.4
Nonproject ..............  .... . 2,068.6  3,829.3  2,105.0  5,635.6  5,095.9c  310.0  19,044.4
Population, health, and
nutrition. . . ................  289.4  587.5  260.2  1,132.8    355.0     31.3    2,656.2
Public-sector management .....   0.0     32.0    130.0  1,779.0   200.0       0.0   2,141.0
Small-scale enterprises......... . 440.7  1,266.5  354.0  1,985.6  460.0     80.0   4,586.8
Technical assistance ........... . 138.8  95.0   57.8    335.0     26.2       0.0     652.8
Telecommunications. . .........  510.2  1,150.7  571.5   508.3    380.3     712.5    3,833.5
Transportation
Airlines and airports .......  59.0     9.2     0.0     218.5      7.0      5.6     299.3
Highways  .................  1,817.8  5,105.3  1,321.1  6,115.5  2,132.2  738.9   17,230.8
Pipelines  ..................  0.0      0.0    57.5      23.3     0.0      37.0     117.8
Ports and waterways........ ..285.9  1,408.5  967.0    523.7     625.8    437.2    4,248.1
Railways  ..................  733.5  2,310.8   237.5  1,938.5  1,093.0   1,406.4   7,719.7
Transportation sector loan . .  61.6  527.2     30.0    259.6    342.0    184.0    1,404.4
Total....................  2,957.8  9,361.0  2,613.1  9,079.1  4,200.0  2,809.1  31,020.1
Urban development ........... . 933.7  2,908.3  937.1   4,469.1   354.2     319.1   9,921.5
Water supply and sewerage ....  1,169.8  1.667.4  1,987.5  3,623.7  1,166.3  103.0  9,717.7
Grand total ..............  16,765.3  51,344.5  21,037.4  71,666.7  31,756.8  25,639.2  218,209.9
a. Except for the total amount shown in footnote d. no account is taken of cancellations subsequent to original commitment.
IBRD loans to the IFC are excluded.
b. Operations have been classified by the major purpose they finance. Many projects include activity in more than one sector
or subsector.


﻿Cumulative Lending Operations, by Purpose and Region  195
IDA credits to borrowers, by region
Middle      Latin     Europe
East      East and   America      and
Asia and    North      and the    Central     South                    Total
Africa      Pacific     Africa    Caribbean    Asia       Asia       Total     IBRD and IDA
546.5      743.2       74.2       23.5        0.0     2,209.4     3.596.8      11,217.8
1,159.8     283.7        0.0         1.4       0.0       193.5     1,638.4       6,656.1
361.4       53.0       45.0       16.5       0.0        716.9     1,192.8       3,926.1
1,627.1    1,106.3     146.1       108.6       0.0       931.9      3,920.0     12,298.6
55.7       88.2       67.3         0.0       0.0       199.1       410.3         581.2
391.0      520.2        0.0       38.9        0.0       699.1     1,649.2       2,535.2
855.6      916.1      396.5       18.5      80.0      5,741.2     8,007.9      17,993.5
457.2       88.1        5.0       67.5      20.5        267.1       905.4       2,672.1
488.9      300.5        0.0         3.2      15.0       191.0       998.6       3,389.5
597.0      120.5       20.4       21.0        0.0       767.8     1,526.7       3,126.7
6,540.2    4,219.8      754.5      299.1     115.5     11,917.0    23,846.1     64,396.8
1,476.1     211.5       64.0       144.1      35.0       563.2     2,493.9      23,917.3
2,317.7    1,224.2      283.3       86.2       0.0      1,928.1     5,839.5     15,309.3
450.0       66.0       74.0       115.1      0.0        378.4     1,083.5      11,017.5
1,206.1     271.8      252.9       189.7      25.7      3,630.5    5,576.7      42,867.3
1,656.1     337.8      326.9       304.8      25.7      4,008.9     6,660.2     53,884.8
16.7        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0        16.7         74.9
35.0       35.0       21.4         0.0       0.0       904.0       995.4       4,803.1
702.7       71.3       29.5         0.0       0.0       271.5     1,075.0       8,541.0
40.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0        40.0       1,828.8
19.9       16.0        0.0       49.5       0.0          0.0       85.4        1,603.6
50.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0        50.0        487.2
20.0       29.7        7.0         0.0       0.0        75.0       131.7         659.4
18.0       16.0       48.5        0.0       0.0          4.2       86.7         450.3
902.3      168.0      106.4       49.5        0.0     1,254.7     2,480.9      18,448.3
3,897.5      110.0       35.0      461.2      41.1      3,795.7     8,340.5     27,384.9
942.4      417.9      277.0       120.0      0.0       1,489.5    3,246.8       5,903.0
384.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       384.4       2,525.4
228.7       56.5        2.3       27.5       0.0        311.5       626.5       5,213.3
836.3       80.7       32.6       38.5        0.0       125.5     1,113.6       1,766.4
352.1      101.8       83.0        0.0       0.0        882.2     1,419.1       5,252.6
14.0        7.5        0.0        0.0       0.0          2.5       24.0         323.3
2,855.2      571.1      180.2      247.3       0.0       867.1      4,720.9      21,951.7
0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0          117.8
413.9      161.2        9.2       16.0        0.0       262.0       862.3       5,110.4
587.6      206.7       38.5       45.0       0.0      1,017.5     1,895.3       9,615.0
495.9       33.8       30.0         0.0       0.0       314.7       874.4       2,278.8
4,366.6      980.3      257.9      308.3       0.0      2,463.8     8.376.9     39,397.0
1,091.1     382.4       73.0       127.0       2.3      1,402.3    3,078.1      12,999.6
862.9      374.2      203.2       78.8       0.0      1,639.4     3,158.5      12,876.2
25,854.4    8,665.1    2,499.1    2,045.0     219.6     31,781.8    71,065.0    289,274.9d
c. Includes $497 million in European reconstruction loans made before 1952.
d. Cancellations amount to S16,413.30 million for the IBRD and $2,926.75 million for IDA, totaling $19,340.05 million.


﻿
﻿197
Financial Statements of the
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Balance Sheet 198
Statement of income 200
Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings 200
Statement of Changes in Cumulative Translation Adjustment 200
Statement of Cash Flows 201
Summary Statement of Loans 202
Summary Statement of Borrowings 205
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power 207
Notes to Financial Statements 211
Report of Independent Accountants 217


﻿198    IBRD Financial Statements
Balance Sheet
June 30, 1992 and June 30. 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1992          1991
Assets
DUE FROM BANKS
Unrestricted  currencies  .......  .  .                                          $   124       $   127
Currencies subject to restrictions-Note A .                                          842           589
966           716
INVESTMENTS-Note B
Obligations of governments and other offic aj en'ities  ..                         17,092        11,896
Time deposits and other obligations of banks and other financ a institutions  .    6.638         8,472
23,730        20.368
CASH COLLATERAL INVESTED-Note B   .......................................             5759          4,569
NONNEGOTIABLE, NONNTEREST-BEARING DEMAND OBLIGATIONS ON ACCOUNT OF
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL (subjeci to restrictions-Note A) ..                              1,719         1,604
AMOUNTS REOUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Note A
Amounts  recelvabe ........  .  ......  .....  .  .  ...  .  .  ...  .  .  ...  .  .....  700      787
Am ounts  deferred  ......   .  .......  ..  ....  ..  ..  ..  ....  ..  ..  ..  ....  ..  227     343
927         1.130
OTHER RECEIVABLES
Net receivables from currency swaps-Note D                                           684           514
Receivables from nvestment secrifties soid                                          1,840         1,366
Accrued  income  on  loans  .. .  .  .  .  .         .  .   ......  .  .  .       2,283         2,139
Accrued interest on investments                                                      194           172
5,001         4,191
LOANS OUTSTANDING
(see Summary Statement of Loans and Note C)
Total  loans ....................  .......  .....  .  .....  .......  .....  .  .  .  154,933   143,607
Less  loans  approved  bil not yet effective  .  .. ...  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .      11.193        12,790
Less undisbursed balance of effective loans ...........................42,930                  40.179
100,810        90,638
OTHER ASSETS
Unamofrized  issuance  costs  of borrow  ngs  .  ...  .  ...  .  ......   .   .....   .   ..   ......  575  597
M iscellaneous  ........... ... ...  . ...         ....   ....  ..  ... ...         929           828
1,504         1,425
T otal  assets  ...  .  .....  ..........  .......  .  ..  .  .........  .  .....  ...  $140,416  $124.641


﻿Balance Sheet     199
1992         1991
Liabilities
BORROWINGS (see Summary Statement of Borrowings and Note D)
Short-term  ...... ............ .......................................      $  5,374      $  5,388
Medium- and  long-term  ..................................................      91,682       84,797
97,056       90,185
PAYABLE  FOR  CASH  COLLATERAL RECEIVED  ......................................    5,759        4,569
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Note A
Amounts payable  .....................................................             40            43
Amounts  deterred  ............ ..................                                 748          395
788          438
OTHER LIABILiTIES
Accrued charges on borrowings  ............................................      2,942        2,718
Net payables for currency swaps- NoteD .....................................     1,241          967
Payables  for investment securities  purchased  ............................  ........  4,830  1,847
Due to the International Development Association and the Debt Reduction Facility for iDA-Only
Countries- Note E  ...... .* ..........................................        1,112          870
Accounts  payable  and  other liabilities ..........................................  460       398
10,585        6.800
ACCUMULATED  PROVISION  FOR  LOAN  LOSSES-Note C  .............................    2,540         1,990
Total  liabilities  .................. .....................................  116,728   103,982
Equity
CAPITAL STOCK (see Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power and Note A)
Authorized capital (1,525,659 shares-June 30, 1992; 1,448,500 shares-une 30, 1991)
Subscribed capital (1,262,054 shares-June 30, 1992: 1,153,231 shares-June 30, 1991) .  152,248,  139,120
Less  uncalled  portion  of subscriptions  ........................................  142,188  129,727
10,060        9,393
PAYMENTS ON  ACCOUNT OF PENDING  SUBSCRIPTIONS  ...........................          48            49
RETAINED EARNINGS (see Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings and Note E)       3 ..........  13.202  11,937
CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENT (see Statement of Changes in Cumulative Translation
Adjustm ent)  ..... .......... ......... . .........    ....        ...         378          (720)
Total  equity  ........................................  ................   23,688       20,659
Total liabilities  and  equity  .......  .......................................  $140.416    $124,641
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿200     IBRD Financial Statements
Statement of Income
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Income                                                                               1992        1991
Income from loans-Note C
Interest  ..... . ................................ . . ..................  ....  $7,773    $7,699
Com m itm ent  charges  ..................................... .................   115         104
Income from investments-Note B............................... ............         1,771      1,908
O ther  inco m e  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  15  12
Total  incom e  .. .. .. .. . ..  . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ............... .. . . .. .. .. ..  9,674  9,723
Expenses
Borrowing expenses
Interest on  borrowings- NoteD   .....        .......   ....   ..                6,653      6,779
Amortization  of issuance  costs  and  other borrowing  costs  .. .  .............  .....  211  119
Interest on  payable  for cash  collateral received  ..........  .....  .....  .  .. ............  127  210
Administrative expenses-Notes F, G and H.................... .................     615         574
Provision  for loan  losses- NoteC  ....... ......................... ...........  353         775
Other expenses  .. ...... ....... .                                                   6           3
Total  expenses  ......  ................ . ....... ...... ...........      7,965      8,460
Operating Income                                                                     1,709       1,263
Contributions to special programs-Note F  ............  .....  .  .... . ...  ....... . ....64     63
Net Income       ......................................................             $1,645      $1,200
Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1992        1991
Retained earnings at beginning of fiscal year      ..                             $11,937     $11,033
Transfer to international Development Association-Note E .............................(350)    (267)
Transfer to Global Environment Trust Fund-Note E ...........................-                   (29)
Transfer to Technical Assistance Trust Fund for the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics-Note E . ..  (30)  -
Net Income for fiscal year .........................................              1,645      1,200
Retained earnings at end of fiscal year ........................................   $13,202     $11,937
Statement of Changes in Cumulative
Translation Adjustment
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1992        1991
Cumulative translation adjustment at beginning of fiscal year                       $ (720)     $(499)
Translation adjustments for fiscal year                                            1,098       (221)
Cumulative translation adjustment at end of fiscai year . .                         $ 378       $(720)
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿Statement of Cash Flows        201
Statement of Cash Flows
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1992           1991
Cash flows from lending and development activities
Loan disbursements ...(11,727)                                                                         $(,582)
Loan principal repayments ... . . .                                                       9,488          9,080
Loan  princpal prepayments  .                                                               3.  .  .  .  .  . .  .   . .  .  201
Payments to international Development Association                                           (211)          (322)
Payments to Global Environment Trust Fund..................        ........-                              (29)
Payments to Debt Reduction Facilty for IDA-Only Countries .......................           (10)             (8)
Payments to Technical Assistance Trust Fund for the Union of Sov et Socialist Repub ics  .   (30)
Net cash used in lending and development activities .. .......................         (2,160)         (2,660)
Cash flows from financing activities
Medium- and long-term borrowings
New issues ..11,754                                                                                    10,841
Retirements  ..........(12,471)                                                                        (7139)
Net cash flows from short-term borrowings                                                   (142)           (80)
Net cash flows from currency swaps .(96)                                                                   (404)
Net cash flows from capita  transactions...........................471                                    331
Net cash flows from financing activities . ...............(484)                                         3,549
Cash flows from operating activities
Net income  ....... ......  .. ...  ...  ...  .  . .  ..... ..       . ............     .  1,645          1200
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities
Depreciation and amortization ........ ... ..  ... . .. . ..  ......... ... .309                         373
Provision for loan losses ........... .......... ......       .    .. .....353                         775
Changes in assets and liabilities
Decrease (increase) in accrued income on loans and investments .32                                      (2)
Increase in miscelaneous assets.............................(152)                                    (230)
(Decrease) increase in accrued charges on borrowings                                    (13)           120
Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and other liabities .63                                       (95)
Net cash  provided  by  operating  acfivities  .. . . . .   .   . . . . . .   . .2,237             2,141
Ettect of exchange rate changes on unrestricted cash and iquid invesfmenfs .. ... ..... .......1,257         (261)
Nef increase in unrestricted cash and li investments .....  .. ....                        850           2,769
Unrestricted casn and liquid investments at beginning ot fiscal year ... ... ..... ... ........20,014       17,245
Unrestricted cash and iiquid investments at end oft fscal year..............$20,864                       $ 20,014
Composed of
Investments.............. .....................................$(23,730                               $ 20,368
Unresfricted  currencies  . . . . . . . . ...              . . .  . ..   . . .  ..124                       127
Net uayatcle tor investment securities  purchased/sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (2,990)          (481)
$20,864        $ 20,014
Supplemental disclosure
Increase (decrease) resling trom exchange rafe fluctuations
Loans  outstanding  .S.. . .  . . .  . . .  . . ..  . . .  . . .  . . .  . . .           8,263       $   (714)
Borrowings ..                                                                            7516           1280)
Nef  payable  for currency  swaps  . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .  . . .  . .. .200                       (324)
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿202     IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Loans
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Loans
approved                             Percentage of
Total     but not yet  Undisbursed  Loans       total loans
Borrower or guarantor                        loans     effectivel   loans,     outstandinge  outstanding
Algeria  .........  ... ..................  $  2,976    $  131      $1,345      $  1.500       1.49
Argentina  ..............................     4,021        20        1.413        2,588        2.57
Australia6  ..............................       3         -          -              3
Bahamas, The  ..........   .............        28        -             9           19         0.02
Bangladesh  ...........................         63        -           -             63         0.06
Barbados  ...........   .....  ............     56         21           5           30         0.03
Belize  .............................. ...      33          7           7           19         0.02
Bolivia  .....  ...... .........  .........    159        -           -            159         0.16
Botswana  ........................ .....       168        -            26          142         0.14
Brazil  ......................  ..........   12,713     1,443       3,596         7,674        7.61
Bulgaria  .........  .......... . ......       272        -           123          149         0.15
Cameroon  ............................  .     1,044       -           325          719         0.71
Chile  ............  ....................     2,558        95         487         1,976        1.96
China  .................. ..............      7,187       613       2.950         3,624        3.59
Colombia  ..............  ......  ........    4,753       566         796         3,391        3.36
Congo  ... ...  ........................       183         16           4          163         0.16
Costa  Rica  ..........  ..................    541         64          74          403         0.40
C6te  divoirel  .......... .................  2,396       -           431         1,965        1.95
Cyprus  ... ............. ...............      172         17         119           36         0.04
Czechoslovakia  .  ..... .  .............      704        246         198          260         0.26
Dominican  Republic  ........  ..............  406         94          60          252         0.25
Ecuador  .....  .........................     1,264        89         375          800         0.79
Egypt  .................................      2,426       349         707         1,370        1.36
El Salvador  .............   ...............   291        -           103          188         0.19
Ethiopia  ......  ........................      16        -           -             16         0,02
Fiji  .................... ..............       95         15          20           60         0.06
Gabon  ................................         97        -            14           83         0.08
Ghana  ..............................           96                    -             96         0.09
Greece  ...............  ................        8        -           -              8         0.01
Guatemala ......  ...... ................      414         62         117          235         0.23
Guinea  ..............................           7        -           -              7         0,01
Guyana  .................... ...........        50        -           -             50         0.05
Honduras  ..  ..........  ...  ...........     568        -            44          524         0.52
Hungary  ................... ............     2,909       -           947         1,962        1.95
Iceland  ................................        5        -           -              5         0.01
India      ...........      ...........      16,020       502       6,576         8,942        8.87
Indonesia  ..............................    15,855     1,150       4,000        10,705       10.62
Iran, Isiamic  Republic  of  ....  ..............  416    134         249           33         0.03
Iraq  ..................  ...  ...........      48        -                         48         0.05
Ireland  ... .......... ..................       8        -                          8         0.01
Jamaica  .  -   ...   ...........   ...        749        -           110          639         0.63
Jordan   ...............   ............        751         -          216          535         0.53
Kenya  ................................        727        -             4          723         0.72
Kenya, Tanzania, and Ugandag  ...............    1        -           -              1
Korea, Republic  of  ........................  3,416      120         554         2,742        2.72
Lebanon  ...............................        26        -           -             26         0.03
Lesotho  ...............................       110        -           110           -           -
Liberia  ...............................       142        -                        142         0.14
Madagascar  .................  ..........       22        -                         22         0.02
M alaw i  ..............  ..........  ......    82        -             1           81         0.08
M alaysia ...............................     1,638       294         255         1,089        1.08
Mauritania  ..............   ...  ..........    37        -           -             37         0.04
M auritius  ..............................     231         25          48          158         0.16
M exico  ......................  .........   15,830       839       2,986        12,005       11.91
M orocco  ......  ........................    4,825       114       1,269         3,442        3.41


﻿Statement of Loans     203
Loans
approved                               Percentage of
Total     but not yet  Undisbursed    Loans       total loans
Borrower or guarantor                          loans      effective,   loans"      outstanding'  outstanding
Nicaragua  .............. ...............    $    113     $   -       $   -        $    113         0.11
Nigeria  .... ........... .. ..  ..... .       5,401        366        1,740         3,295         3.27
Oman  ............  .................  ..          80         -            30            50         0.05
Pakistan  ................. .. ......... .     3,969        180        1,440         2,349         2.33
Panama  ...................  ............         380         -            60          320          0.32
Papua New  Guinea  ........    ........           399         27          100           272         0.27
Paraguay  ......................  .......         282         29           15           238         0.24
Peru  .................. ...............        2,031       1,000         -           1,031         1.02
Philippines  ...................... ......      6,158        159        1,842         4,157         4.12
Poland  ................................        2,621        445        1,663          513          0.51
Portugal  ....  ..........................        231         -            84           147         0.15
Romania  ...  ...........................         831        500          288           43          0.04
St.  Kitts  and  Nevis  .......................     1                       1
St. Lucia  .............. ...... .......            3         -             3
St.  Vincent  .............................         1         -             1
Senegal     ..................     ......          70                     -             70          0.07
Seychelles  .............................           5         -           -              5          0.01
Sierra  Leone  ................ ...........         4                      -4                          *
Singapore  ..............................           3                     --            3
Sri  Lanka  ...............   ..............       71         -                          71         0.07
Sudan  ................................            12         -           -              12         0.01
Swaziland  ............ ........... .....          31         -            -             31         0.03
Syrian Arab Republic  ............ .   . .        466         -           -            466          0.46
Tanzania'  ..............................         190         -           -             190         0.19
Thailand  ................... ...........       2,710        210          190         2,310         2.29
Trinidad  and  Tobago  . .  .....  .............  101         27           41            33         0.03
Tunisia  ................... ............       2,151        135          498         1,518         1.51
Turkey  .............   ..................      8,896        334        2,632         5,930         5.88
Uganda  . .............................            26         -           -              26         0.03
Uruguay  .......  .......................         728         65          257          406          0.40
Venezuela  .............   ................     2,128         98          617         1,413         1.40
Yugoslavia h  ... . ..... ... ..... ... .. .   2,755        592          142         2,021         2.00
Zaire  .. ............ ............... ..          88         -*                         88         0.09
Zambia  ................................          323         -           -             323         0.32
Zimbabwe  ..............................          757         -           332           425         0.42
Subtotal members ............. ........     153,632      11,193      42,649        99,790        98.99
Caribbean Development Bank .............           46         -            20           26          0.03
West African  Development Bank' ..............     19                      15             4
International Finance Corporation  .............  1,236       -           246          990          0.98
Totaline 30, 1992 . .............          $154,933     $11,193     $42,930      $100,810       100.00
Total-June 30, 1991  ..  ..................  $143.607     $12,790     $40,179      $  90,638
Indicates amounts less than $0.5 million or 0.005 percent
a Loan agreements totaling $3,806 million ($4,362 mlllon-June 30, 1991) have been signed, but the loans do not become effective and disbursements
thereunder do not start until the borrowers and guarantors, if any, take certain actions and furnish certain documents to the BRID. Loans totaling $7,387 milion
($8,428 million-June 30, 1991) have been approved by the IBRD but the related agreements have not been signed,
b. Of the undisbursed balance the IBRD has entered into irrevocabie commitments to disburse $1,634 million ($1,456 million--june 30, 1991).
c. Total loans outstanding as of June 30, 1992 oc udes $72,124 mlon ($59,662 milion--June 30, 1991) at variabe interest rate, and $28,686 ($30,976
millior une 30, 1991) at fixed  interest-rate.
d. In some instances loans were made, with the guarantee of a member, in countries which at the time were included in that member's territories but which
subsequently became independent and separate members of the IBRD. Liabilities for these loans are shown under the name of the original member (whose
(continued)


﻿204    IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Loans (continued)
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
guarantee continues unaffected)  Loans with outstanding balances equivalent to $3  millon ($5 milion -June 30, 1991) are shown under Australia, the
guarantor, but represent obigations of Papua New Guinea
e. One loan with an outstanding balance equivaient to $5 million ($8 milion-June 30, 1991) is shown under Cbte d'lvoire (Guarantor) but is also partialiy
guaranteed by Burkina Faso
f. ncudes portons of loans made to corporatons of the former East African Community.
g Members are  ointy and severally liab e.
h. See Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
i These loans are for the benefit of The Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Trnidad and Tobago, and terrirres of the United Kingdom (Associated
States and Dependencies) in the Caribbean Region, who are severally liable as guarantors to the extent of subloans made in their territories
j The loan  is for the benefit of Cbte dIvoire and Senegal, who are severaly  able as guarantors to the extent of subloans made in their territories
Summary of Currencies Repayable on Loans Outstanding
Currency                         1992       1991      Currency                         1992        1991
Australian dollars  ........... . $  7     $   94     Luxembourg francs  ........... $   101      $   88
Austrian  schO lings  ......  ...  195        100     Malaysian  ringgit  .  .........    43          35
Belgian  francs  .............    247         212     Netherlands  guilders  .........  4,337       4,108
Canadian  dollars  ........  ..    192        202     Norwegian  kroner  ....  ......     75          64
Danish  kroner  ............. . . 76          64     Portuguese escudos  .........       25          18
Deutsche  mark  ............ . . 23,483     19,060    Pounds sterling  ............      321         281
European currency units  ......    26          44     Saudi Arabian  riya s  ......  ..   92          92
Finnish markkaa  ...  ....... . . 58          55     South African  rand  ..........     44          40
French francs  .  ........ . . .749          433     Spanish  pesetas  ......  ..... . 157         123
Indian  rupees  ..............     27          27     Swedish  kronor  ...  .....  . .   103          89
Iranian  rials  . . ... .. .. .. . ..14        15     Swiss  francs  ..............    14,697      13,926
Irish  pounds  ............  .. .  29          24     United  States  dollars  .........  26,554  25,416
Italian  lire  ..... .......... ... 242       176     Other currencies  .........  ..     22          30
Japanese yen ...... ....... ..  28,724      25,649
Kuwaiti dinars  ....... ..... .  170         173     Loans outstanding  .........   $100,810     $90,638
Maturity Structure of Loans*
Period
July  1,  1992  through  June  30,  1993  ..  ...........  .....  .....  .....  ......................... .  $  11,124
July  1,  1993  through  June  30,  1994  .............. . ................... ......... .........  10,554
July  1,  1994  through  June  30,  1995  ...................  .....  .............  .......... .  .  11,001
July  1,1995  through June  30,  1996  ....  ..  ..  . .....................            .      11,550
July  1,  1996  through  June  30,  1997  ................................... ...........   .............  11,864
July  1,  1997  through  June  30,  2002  ......................................................  .....  49,805
July  1,  2002  through  June  30,  2007  ............................................................  28,959
July  1,  2007  through  June  30,  2012  ....................  ...........  ........................  ..  8,849
July  1, 2012  through  June  30,  2017  .......................... ............    ........          15
U nd ete rm ined -  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1 19
T o ta l  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  $ 1 4 3 ,7 4 0
Total loans less loans approved but not effective
** Represents cancellations and other adjustments that have not been allocated to specific maturities


﻿Statement of Borrowings               205
Summary Statement of Borrowings
June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Medium- and Long-term Borrowings and Swaps
Medium- and Long-term Borrowings                  Swap agreementsa                   Net currency obligations
Weighted                                  Weighted
average           Currency swap         average cost
Principal %Ltstanding'     cost ()        payables (receivables)   (return)(%)
1992            1991         1992         1992           1991           1992          1992           1991
Australan dolars              $   689         $   886        1376         $ (69M1        $ (900)       (13 77 1     $   (10)        $   (14)
Austrian schilings                 405             348         783           (167)          (143)        (8021           238            205
Belgian trancs                    584              501         8 63          (518)          (445)        (886 )          66             56
Canadian dollars    .            1,255            1,576       1055          (1,110)       (1,306)       (10 67 )0        145            270
Drnsn kroner                     224              220         991           (222)          (218)        (9.93)            2              2
Deutsche mark .                 12,893           12,526        729          7,722          4,802          7510
(54)           (46)        (590)c        20,561         17,282
European currency units          2,7311           1,710        872         (2,513)        (1,320)        (880)           218            390
F:nsh markkaa      . .           358              353         979           (354)          (350)        (9.81             4              3
French francs   .  .             1,194             853         9.50          (608)          (357)        (958 )          586            496
Hong Kong dollars                 272              208         9.41          (270)          (208)        (9421             2             -
ratian lire    .                4.1101           2.166d       11805        (4.098)        (2,156)      (11 121           12              10
Japanese yen        .           28,775           25,705d       592            941            862          5.910
(1,612)        (1,461)       (698)0        28,104         25.106
Kuwaiti dinars                    1803             111         765            -              -             -             103            111
Luxembourg francs   . .           186              160         791           (93)           (80)         (8.21 )          93             80
Netherlands guilders             3,374           3505          765           827            712           671
l886)          (639)        (7 721        3,315           3,578
New Zealand dollars  .            177              187        1265           (178)          (188)       (12.67)           (1)            (1)
Norwegian kroner .                 41               72         955            -              -             -              41             72
Portuguese escudos                249              -          1159          (247)            -          (11 61)            2             -
Pounds sterling     .            2,711           2,338        10.68         1086)          (947)        (1083)0        1.623           1,391
Spanish pesetas                  1,245             939        1193          (1,229)         (926)       (11 95)           16             13
Swedish kronor     .              402              268        1057           (394)          (261)       (1067)0            8              7
Swiss francs    .                6,717            7,033        630          5,867          4,814          5330        12,584          11,847
Un ted States dollars  .        22,962          23,042e        871          4,046          3,878          8380
_______ ______(2.506)                           (2,664)        (929)0       24.502          24.200
Principal at face value  .      91,057          84707          7 72'
Plus net unamrtrie discounts
and premiums    . .             25               90
Total                         0$1682           $84,797
a. See Notes to Financial Statements-Note D.
b Includes zero-coupon borrowings which have been recorded at their discounted values. The aggregate face amounts and discounted values of these
borrowings are
In millions of US-dollar equivalents                 Aggregate face amount                      Discounted value
Currency                                           1992                1991                1992                1991
Austrahan dolars                                 $   -               $ 115                $-                  $104
Canadian dollars  . . . . ...                        168                 175                115                 109
Deutsche mark.... . . . . . . . ...1,295                                1,115               289                 234
Italian lire  .       . . . . .                       86                  -                  55                  -
Swiss trancs                                         933                 837                218                 185
United States dollars   .                          3,127               3.170                569                 553
c. Includes income and expense from interest rate swaps The ID has entered Into interest rate swap agreements with respect to notional principal amounts
as follows
In Mlons                                                   Currency amount                    US-dollar equivalent
Currency                                                 1992              1991              1992              1991
Canadian dolars    . .                                     149               149            $ 125             $ 131
Deutsche mark      . . . . . . . . .                     8,269             4,866             5,353             2,712
French francs                      . . .                   984                                 190                -
Japanese yen    . .                                     97,500             35,000              777               253
Pounds sterling   .        .   . . . .     .               100               100               189               163
Swedish kronor                                             300               300                54                46
Swiss francs                                              1,124              483               806               311
United States dollars                                    4,260              3,725            4,260             3,725
(continued)


﻿206    IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Borrowings
June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
As of June 30, 1992, 93 percent (92 percent-June 30, 1991) of above notional principal amounts of these interest rate swap agreements are from floating
rates into fixed rates.
d. Includes the following variable interest rate borrowings which through swaps have been transformed into the financial equivalent of fixed rate borrowings:
In Millions
Currency amount          US-dollar equivalent
Currency                                  1992         1991         1992         1991
European currency units                    575           -          $764         $ -
Italian lire   .   .  .  .  .  . .      200,000      200,000         171          149
Japanese yen . . . . .    ....97,500                 35,000        777           253
United States dollars.... . . . . .  . . . .  380        -          380           -
e. Includes $99 million ($99 million u-Jne 30, 1991) of variable rate borrowings and $172 millon ($173 million-lune 30, 1991) borrowed from the Interest
Subsidy Fund. The Interest Subsidy Fund, which obtained its resources from voluntary contributions from member governments, was established to subsidize
the interest payments to the O8RD on selected loans.
f. The weighted average cost of medium- and long-term borrowings outstanding at June 30, 1992, after adjustment for swap activities, was 7 10 percent (7 43
percent-June 30, 1991).
Maturity Structure of Medium-and Long-term Borrowings
Period
July  1,  1992  through  June  30,  1993  ........................................................  $  8,974
July  1,  1993  through  June  30,  1994  .............  ..........................................  8,460
July  1,  1994  through  June  30,  1995  ........................................................  10,017
July  1, 1995  through  June  30, 1996  ................ . ................                      10,426
July  1,  1996  through  June  30,  1997 ................... ... ...   ............................  11,762
July  1,  1997  through  June  30, 2002  ..  .  .........................  ............... .     30,762
July  1,  2002  through  June  30, 2007  ........................................................  3,620
July  1, 2007  through  June  30,  2012  ... ................................................... .  3,088
July  1, 2012  through  June  30, 2017  .................................................  ......  3,505
July  1,  2017  through  June  30,  2022  ........................................................  715
T he reafte r  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3 2 8
T o ta l  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 9 1 ,6 5 7
Short-term Borrowings
Weighted
average
Principal outstanding  cost (%)
1992          1991        1992
Short-term Notes (US dollars)
Principal outstanding  at face  value  ..................................  $2,750   $2,750
Net unamortized  discounts  and  premiums  ......  ......................   (1)        21
Subtotal  ..................................................       2,749        2,771        3.20
Central Bank Facility (US dollars) ................ .........            2,600         2,583       4.30
Continuously Offered Payment-Rights (Swiss francs) ..........              25            34        7,66
Total  ...... .... ............................... . .............      $5,374        $5,388       3.75
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power     207
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Subscrptions                         Voting Power
Percentage           Amounts                  Number    Percentage
of        Total    paid in  Amounts subject  of         of
Member                          Shares     total    amounts   (Note A)   to cal (Note A)  viles    total
Afghanistan  .....  ...........   300      0.02      S  36     $  3.6      $   33         550      0.04
Abania  ...... .......... . . .  830      0.07        100        3.6          97       1,080      0.08
Algeria  ...  ..........  .  ....  5,192   0.41        626       52.4        574        5,442      0.42
Angola  ... ................  .  2,676     0.21        323       17 5         305       2,926      0.22
Antigua and Barbuda .. ..... .   292      002          35        0.4         35          542      0.04
Argentina  ..........  .... . . . 10,052   0.80       1,213     103.8       1,109      10,302      0.79
Australia  .....  .....  .......  21.610   1.71       2,607     171.4       2,435      21,860      1.68
Austria  . ...  .  ........  . .  11,063   0.88       1,335      80.7       1,254      1 ,313      0.87
Bahamas, The  ..............     1,071     0.08        129       5.4          124       1,321      0.10
Bahra n  .........  .  . . .     619      0.05         75       39            71         869      0.07
Bangladesh  .........  ...  . .  3,576     0.28        431       29.3        402        3.826      0.29
Barbados  .....  .  ...........   948      0.08        114       4.5         110        1,198      009
Belgium  .  ....  ............  26,796     2.12       3,233     207.9       3,025      27,046      2.08
Beize  .  .  ....  ...  .  ......  329     0.03         40       0.8          39          579      0.04
Benin  ..  ......  ...  ......    487      0.04         59       2  5         56          737      0.06
Bhutan . .          ....   .      479      0.04         58       1.0          57          729      0.06
Bolivia  ...  ... . .  ..... .  ....  1,002  0.08      121       8.0         113        1.252      0.10
Botswana  ...  .....  ......  ..  615      0.05         74       2.0          72          865      0.07
Brazil . .   .      .   .   .  .  .  24,946  1.98     3,009     185.1       2,824      25,196      1.94
Buigaria  . ..........  .....  ..  2,927   023         353      28.3         325        3,177      0.24
Burkina  Faso  .  ..............  487      0.04         59       2 5          56          737      0.06
Burundi  . . .  . .  .....  .  .....  402  0.03         48       1.8          47          652      0.05
Camboda  ........  ...  .....     214      0.02         26       2.6          23          464      0.04
Cameroon  ....  .  ....  ....     857      0.07        103       6.6          97        1,107      0.09
Canada  . .........  .....  ...  40,321    3.19       4,864     318.7       4,545      40,571      3.12
Cape Verde  ........  .  ....  .  285      0.02         34       0.4          34          535      0.04
Central African  Republic  ........  484   0.04         58       2 5          56          734      0.06
Cnad . . . . . . .. ..... . ...   484      0.04         58       25           56          734      0.06
Chile  ..............  .....  .  6,931     0.55        836       49.6        787        7.181      0.55
China ......... ..... ... ..    34.971     2.77       4,219    299.5        3,919      35,221      2.71
Colombia  .  .....  ....  .  ....  6,352   0.50        766      45.2         721        6,602      0.51
Comoros  ....  .....  ........    282      0.02         34       0.3          34          532      0.04
Congo  ..  .....  .....  .....    520      004          63       2.9          60          770      0.06
Costa  Rica  ..........  .....  .  233     0.02         28       1.9          26         483       0.04
Cbte  d Ivoire  .........  .....  2,516    0.20        304       164         287        2,766      021
Cyprus  ......  .....  ....  .    820      0.06         99       6.0          93        1,070      0.08
Czechoslovakia  ..  .  ...  .....  5,345   0.42        645      53.8         591        5,595      0.43
Denmark  ..  .....  . .........  10,251    0.81       1,237     74.6        1,162      10,501      0.81
Djibouti  .  .  ............  ...  314     002          38       0.7          37         564       0.04
Dominica  . . .... . .... .. . . 283  002          34       0.4          34         533       0.04
Dominican  Republic  ........  ..  1.174   0.09        142       9.8         132        1,424      0.11
Ecuador .. ..........  .  ....   1.555     0.12        188      13.8         174        1,805      0.14
Egypt .... .... ....... .. .    3,989     0.32        481      39.6         442        4,239      0.33
El Salvador  ................     141      0.01         17       1.7          15         391       0.03
Equatornal Guinea  .....  .....  .  401    0.03         48       1 6          47          651      0.05
(continued)


﻿208     IBRD Financial Statements
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power                                                 contnue
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millons of US dollars
Subscrptions                            Voting Power
Percentage            Amounts                    Nunber   Percentage
o'        Tota      paid in  Arn unts subject   of         o'
Memoe,                            Shares     total     amounts    (Note A)  to ca I (oate A)  votes     total
Estonia  .......  .  ...  ....  .   518      004       S   62     S  28       $    60         768       0.06
Eth  opia  . . . .  ..  .  ...  ....  978    0.08         118        47           113        1,228      0.09
Fi i            ..  . ...           728      0.06          88        3.9           84         978       0.08
Finland   ...  .....   ..  .       7.808     0.62         942       59.1          883        8,058      0.62
France . . . . .............     69,397      5.50        8,372     520.4        7,851       69,647      5.35
Gabon  ...  ....  ........ ..  .    554      004           67        36            63         804       0.06
Gambia, The  .... ..... .. .       305      0.02          37        07            36         555       004
Germany . ... ... .......         72,399     5.74        8,734     5429         8.191       72,649      5.58
Ghana .............856                      0.07         103       10.3           93        1,106      0.08
Greece  .  .  ....  .  .........    945      007          114       11.4          103        1.195      0.09
Grenada   ... . .. . .....        531      0.04          6A        1.4           63         781       0.06
Guatemala  ...  ....  ....  ...    1,123     0.09          135       9.3          126        1.373      0.11
Guinea . . . ...........           725      0.06          87        5 0           82         975       0.07
Guinea-Bissa.....        . . .      303      0.02          37        0.6           36         553       0.04
Guyana . .. ... . .... .....       1.058     0.08         128        5 3          122        1,308      0.10
Haiti  ...  .....   ....  ...       599      0.05          72        3.7           69         849       0.07
Honduras . .  ... ... . . .        360      003           43        1.3           42         610       0.05
Hungary .............             8,050     0 64         971       58.0          913        8.300      0.64
Iceland  .............             1,258     0.10         152        6.8          145        1,508      0 12
India ....   .........         44795      3.55        5 404     333 7        5.070       45,045      3.46
Indones a  .       . ..  .  ....  . ..  13.666  1.08    1,649     105.5        1,543       13,916      1.07
Jran, 'slam:c Reotlic of         13.293     1.05        1,604     138.2        1,465       13,543      1.04
Iraq ...............             2,808      0 22         339       27.1          312        3.058      0.23
elard. . .    .......             5,271      042          636       371           599        5,521      042
Israe ...  ............          2.666      0.21         322       25.7          296        2,916      0.22
Italy . .                . .     44 795      3.55        5.404     334.8        5.069       45,045      3.46
Jamaica                   . ..     2,201     0.17         266       15.4          250        2,451      0.19
Japan                     .       93,770     743        11,312     703.5        10,608      94,020      7.22
Jordan                       .     1,388     011           167       78           160        1.638      0 13
Kenya                      .       2,461     0 19         297       159           281        2.711      0 21
Kiribati ............261                   0.02          31        01            31         511       0.04
Korea. Repubhc of ........       .9,372      0.74        1,131      67.9         1.063       9,622      0.74
Kuwa t                             7.453     059          899       76.3          823        7,703      0.59
Lao People's Democratic Repub|ic    100      0 01          12        12            11         350       0.03
Lebanon . .   . . . . . . . ...     340      0.03          41        1.1           40         590       005
Lesotho. ...........372                     0.03          45        1.3           44         622       0 05
Liberia . ...........463                   0.04          56        2.6           53         713       0.05
Libya  ..  .  .  ...  ..... ... . 7,840      0.62         946       57.0          889        8,090      0.62
Luxembourg  . . .                  1.652     0 13          199       9.8          189        1,902      0.15
Madagascar ..............           798      0.06          96        5 8           90        1,048      0.08
Maiaw..........        ... ....     614      0.05          74        3.9           70         864       0.07
Malaysa    .                      8,244      0.65         995       59.5          935        8,494      0.65
Maldives ......    ....263                 0.02          32        01            32         513       0.04
Mail    ...  .........            652      0.05          9        /.3           74         902       0.07
Malta  .  .     .   .  .  .   .  .  .  903   007           109       4.8          104        1.153      0.09


﻿Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power  209
Subscriptions                       Voting Power
Percentage          Amounts                Number   Percentage
of       Total    paid in  Amounts subject  of      of
Member                        Shares     total   amounts   (Note A)  to call (Note A)  votes  total
Marshall Islands . . . . . . . . . . . ... 263  0.02  $  32  $ 0.1    $   32        513      0.04
Mauritania  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  505  0.04  61  2.7        58        755      0.06
Mauritius  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  697  0.06  84  4.7      79        947      0.07
Mexico  . . .                 10,553    0.84      1,273     109.1      1,164      10,803     0.83
Mongolia  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  466  0.04  56    2.3          54        716      0.05
Morocco  . ..................  2,791    0.22        337      26.9        310       3,041     0.23
Mozambique  ................    522     0.04         63      3.3          60        772      0.06
Myanmar  ........  ..........  2,120    0.17        256      14.8        241       2,370     0.18
Namibia  . . ..................  855    0.07        103      6.4          97       1,105     0.08
Nepal  . . .  ...... . . .  .   543     0.04        66       3.1          62        793      0.06
Netherlands  .................  35,503  2.81      4,283     264.8      4,018      35,753     2.75
New  Zealand  ................  5,966   0.47        720     47.3         672       6,216     0.48
Nicaragua  .................    608     0.05        73       2.1          71        858      0.07
Niger ........  ..........  . .  478    0.04        58       2.4          55        728      0.06
Nigeria  . .       .....  .    7,102    0.56        857      72.6        784       7,352     0.56
Norway  .................      9,982    0.79      1,204     72.6       1,132      10,232     0.79
Oman .....................      876     0.07        106      6.6          99       1,126     0.09
Pakistan  ..................   7,701    0.61        929     61.8         867       7,951     0.61
Panama  ....................    216     0.02        26       2.6          23        466      0.04
Papua New  Guinea  ............  726    0.06        88       5.0          83        976      0.07
Paraguay  ...........  .......  690     0.05        83       4.7          79        940      0.07
Peru  ...  ..................  2,992    0.24        361     29.1         332       3,242     0.25
Philippines  . .  ...............  3,841  0.30      463     38.0         425       4,091     0.31
Poland  ....... ............   6,122    0.49        739      62.3        676       6,372     0.49
Portugal . . ..................  5,460  0.43        659      38.5        620       5,710     0.44
Qatar  ......................  1.096    0.09        132      9.0         123       1,346     0.10
Romania  .................. .  2,251    0.18        272      24.1        247       2,501     0.19
Russian Federation  ............  25,140  1.99    3,033     262.7      2,770      25,390     1.95
Rwanda  .. ............  ... .. 587     0.05         71      3.6          67        837      0.06
St. Kitts and  Nevis  ............  275  0.02        33       0.3         33        525      0.04
St. Lucia  ..... ............. .. 552   0.04        67        1.5         65        802      0.06
St. Vincent ..................  278     0.02         34      0.3          33        528      0.04
Sfo Tome and Principe ......... . 278   0.02         34      0.3          33        528      0.04
Saudi Arabia  ................  25,140  1.99      3,033     263.8      2,769      25,390     1.95
Senegal  ...........  ........  1,163   0.09        140      9.7         131       1,413     0.11
Seychelles  .....  ............  263    0.02         32      0.2          32        513      0.04
Sierra  Leone  ................  403    0.03         49       1.8         47        653      0.05
Singapore  ..................   320     0.03        39       3.9          35        570      0.04
Solomon Islands ... ......... . 288     0.02        35       0.4         34         538      0.04
Somalia  .  ..................  552     0.04         67      3.3          63        802      0.06
South  Africa  .................  13,462  1.07    1,624      98.8      1,525      13,712     1.05
Spain  ..    .........  .    23,686    1.88      2,857     175.6      2,682      23,936     1.84
Sri Lanka  .....  ........... -  3,482  0.28        420     24.9         395       3,732     0.29
Sudan  .....  ....  ..........  850     0.07        103      7.2          95       1,100     0.08
Suriname  ...................   412     0.03        50       2.0          48        662      0.05
(continued)


﻿210    IBRD Financial Statements
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power                                             (contnued)
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Subscriptions                         Voting Power
Percentage              Amounts                Number   Percentage
of         Total      paid in  Amounts sub ect  of      of
Member                          Shares     total     amounts     (Note A)  to call (Note Al  votes  tota!
Swaziland  ..................      440      0.03     $    53     $   2.0    $     51       690     0.05
Sweden  .................  . .  . 14.974    1.19        1.806      110.2       1,696    15.224      1.17
Switzerland  ..... ........... . 26,606     2.11       3.210       197.2       3.012    26,856      2.06
Syrian Arab Republic  .......... . 1,236    0.10         149        10.5         139     1,486      0.11
Tanzania  .........  .........  .   727     0.06          88         7.9          80       977      0.08
Thailand  ...................     4,957     0.39         598        40.2         558     5,207      0.40
Togo  ......................       620      0.05          75         3.9          71       870      0.07
Tonga  .  ......  ............     277      0.02          33         0.3          33       527      0.04
Trinidad and Tobago ......... ..  1.495     0.12         180        13.4         167     1,745      0.13
Tunisia ... .............. ..       719     0.06          87         5.7          81       969      0.07
Turkey  .............  ...... ..  7,379     0.58         890        52.9         837     7,629      0.59
Uganda  .  ..................      617      0.05          74         4.4          70       867      0.07
United Arab Emirates  .... . ....  2,385   0.19         288        22.6         265     2,635      0.20
United Kingdom . ............    69,397     5.50       8,372       539.5       7,832    69,647      5.35
United  States  ................  225,928  17.90      27,255      1,857.1     25,398   226,178     17,37
Uruguay  ...  ...............  .  1,578     0.13         190        14.1         176     1,828      0.14
Vanuatu  ....................      329      0.03          40         0.8          39       579      0.04
Venezuela  ...........  ......  . 11,427    0.91        1,378      118.5       1.260     11.677     0.90
Viet Nam  ..... ............. ..   543      0.04          66         6.6          59       793      0.06
Western Samoa  ............ . .    298      0.02          36         0.5          35       548      0.04
Yemen, Republic of  ......  .....  1,241    0.10         150        10.5         139     1,491      0.11
Yugoslavia  .....  .  .......  ..  4,381    0.35         529        46.5         482     4,631      0.36
Zaire  ......................     2,643     0.21         319        25.4         293     2,893      022
Zambia .. ....... ..........     1,577     0.12         190        15 6         175     1,827      0.14
Zimbabwe  ... ............. .     1,866     0.15         225        17.1         208     2.116      0.16
Total-June 30, 1992* . ........1,262,054  100.00     $152,248    $10,060    $142,188  1,302,054   100,00
Total-June 30, 1991 ........  . . 1,153,231          $139,120    $  9,393    $129.727  1,191,981
May differ from  the sum  of individual figures shown because of rounding
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿Notes to Financial Statements             211
Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting                                    allocation of such commissions to te Special Reserve was dicontinued in
and Related Policies                                                 1964 with respect to subsoquent lans and no turthor additions are being
made to i
The IBRD's prindpai financal statements are prepared m conformity with the  The General Reserve consstoa earnings from pror fscal years that, in the
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and with  judgment at the Executivo Drectors, shoald be retained *n the BRDs
International Accounting Standards.                                  busness.
Translation of Currencies                                            Surplis consists of earnings trom prior tscal years that aretaned by the
IBRD intl a turther decision as made on their disposition
The IBRD's principal financial statements are expressed in terms of US
dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the IBRD's financial position  Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fisca year
and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and  Commencing in 1950, a porton or of tho Unalocated Net ncome has
other interested parties                                             been allocated to the General Reserve Addina y, upon approval of the
Board at Governors, transfers nave soon made out at Unallocated Ntoo
The IRD is an international organization that conducts its operations in the  Income to the Internatinal Development Associaton (IDA) (or focilties
currencies of all of its members. The IBRD's resources are derived from its  administered by IDA) and Surplas, and from  Sorpus to the Global
capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies.  Environment Trust Fund and too Techncal Assistance Trust Fund tar toe
The IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange-  Jnion of Soviet Socilist Repablcs.
rate risk in a multicurrency environment The IBRD matches its borrowing
obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the  Loans
same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by
holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in  All the IBRD's loans are made to or guarantees by members, except loans
which they are borrowed. In addition, the IRD periodically undertakes  to me International Finance Corporation (IFC) The principal amoonts of
currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its  loans are repayable in the currencies ent. For loans negotiated si000 Juiy
reserves with those of the outstanding loans With respect to its other  1980 (and tar portions of certain earlir oans), rho repayment obligatons
resources, the IBRD does not convert one currency into another except for  at borrowers in various correncies are determined on te basis ala currency
small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs.  pooling system, which is designed to equalize exchange-rate rsos among
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates at the end of  borrowers Interest on loans is accrued n the currences lost
the period. Income and expenses are translated at the market exchange rate  Incremental direct costs associated with originating cans are expensed as
at the dates on which they are recognized or at average market exchange  icorred, as such amounts are considered immatera
rates in effect durng each month Translation adjustments, with the
exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note A, are  The BRD does not reschedule interest or principa payments on its loans or
charged or credited to Equity                                        panicpate in debt rescoeduiing agreements with respect to its loans In
exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation ot a tinanced
Valuation of Capital Stock                                           project has been dolayed, te loan amortization schedue may be modtied
to avoid substantial repayments prior to project compietion. It is the policy
In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the IBRD is expressed in  of roe IRD to place n nonaccrual status a lans maoe to or guaranteed
terms ol "US dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944'  by a member of the IRD it pricipal, iterest, or oter charges with respect
(1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator  to any soon  oan are overdue by more roan so months, uness IRD
of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the US law  management determines that the overdue amount wili be collected n the
defining the par value of the US dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing  immedte future Cs the date a member's loans are paced in nonaccrual
basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other  status  interest and other charges that had been accrues os loans
currency disappeared On October 14 1986, the Executive Directors of the  outstanding to the member which remained anpaid are deducted tram the
BRD decided, effective June 30, 1987 until such time as the relevant  income of the current period. In addition, it devoment credIs by IDA to
provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, to interpret the words  a member government are places in onaccra status, a  lans to that
"US doltars of the weight and fineness in effect on Ju y 1, 1944 in Article  member government WH aso be placed in nonaccrual status by the BRD
II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD to mean the Special  Interest and other charges on nonaccruing ioans are incded in income
Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the  only to the extent that payments have actually been received by the IRD
SDR was valued in terms of US dollars immediately before the introduction  The IRD determies the Accumulated Proesion far oan Losses based on
of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being  an assessment of collectibilty risk of the total lan pondfsio, including loans
$1 20635 for one SDR                                                 in nonaccrual sratus The Accomulated Pronision i periodically adjusted
based on a review of the prevailing circumstances and will be used to meet
Retained Earnings                                                    actual lassos on lans Shoud such lasses occur in amounts in excess of
the Accamulared Froeision (and of the amount ot the Special Reserve), toe
Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General  eocess would be incuded in the determination ot not income Annoa
Reserve, and Surplus) and Unallocated Net Income. The IBRD has not   adjustments to the Accumulated Provsion are recorded asa charge or credr
declared or paid any dividends to its members.                      to ocome.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to
Article IV, Section 6, of the Articles ot Agreement which are to be held in  Investments
liquid assets. These assets may b used only for the purpose of meeting
liabilities of the IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of  The lBRD carries its rivetment securties at market nale Bats roa 'zed and
defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by the IBRD The  unrealied gains and oases are included in income tram investments From
Special Reserve assets, comprising obligations of the United States
Government and its instrumettalitoess are included nnder Investments The                                                (continued)


﻿212       IBRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
time to time. the 1IRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase  With respect to restricted currencies out on loan maintenance-ot-value
of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of  oblgatons become effective only as such currencies are recovered by the
commitment,                                                            RD The maintenance-o-value amoents relating to testrictee currencies
eateon loan are Included In Amounts Required to Maintain Vasue ot Currency
Due to the nature of the investments held by the IBRD and its policies  Holdipgs-Amourts Deterred.
governmog the level and use of such investments the IRD classifies the
nvestment portfolio as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash  Capital Increase: On April 24, 1992, tne Board of Governors approved
Flows.                                                               a capital increase ot 77,159 shares incresing the Back's athoried captal
to 1,525,659 snares to provide tot the membership of tme Republics ot the
former Soee Uolon .n the event that any new memoer tails to subscribe to
Reclassifications                                                    to allocated shares the autnorized capital will be reouced by the number ot
shares snob member tailed to subscribe.
Certain reclassfications of the prior year s information have been made to
conform to the current year's presentato                             Note B-investments and Cash Collateral
Invested
Note A-Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies,                         A summary of the currency compositen at Investments and Cash ollatera
and Maintenance of Value                                              nvested at June 30 1992 and June 30 1991 roes follows:
Capital Stock: At June 30, 1992, the 18RD's capital comprised
1,525,659 (1,448,500-June 30, 1991) authorized shares, of which
1,262,054 (1,153,231--une 30, 1991) shares had been subscribed Each  In mulsrs of US-cellar equivalent
share has a par vaue of 0.1 mil.ion 1974 SDRs valued at the rate of
$1 20635 per 1974 SDR Of the subscribed capita, $10,060 million ($9,393  Currency                           1992             1991
million-June 30, 1991) 0as been paid in, and the remaining $142,188  Desche mark...........               $ 1,946           $1,631
mlion ($129,727 nition-une 30, 1991) is subject to cal only when    Japanese yen                            4,989            3,999
required to meet the obligations of the IBRD created by borrow'ng or
guaranteeing loans. As to $121,798 million ($111,296 millIor-une 30,     nds string                          1,689            1,463
1991) the restriction on calls is imposed by the Artices of Agreement and  Jniteo States dollars            18,861           15,554
as to $20,390 million ($18 431 million -June 30, 1991) by resolutions of  Other curreeces                    2,004            2,290
the Board of Governors                                               Tote                                  $29,489          $24,337
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capita subscriptions paid in
to the IRD is divided into two parts: (1) $1,006 milon ($939 mil lon-
June 30, 1991) initially paid n gold or US dollars and (2) $9,054 million
($8,454 milinune 30, 1991) paid in cash of noninterest-bearing
demand obligations denominated either in the currencies of the respective  As part of tovera. portfolio management strategy, the BRI is party to
members or in US dollars The amounts mentioned in (1) above and (I)  fianca instruments with off-balance-sheet rsk, inclsding futures, forward
$646 milion ($506 mio   un-June 30, 1991) which were repurchased by  corrmts covered forward contracs, options, end short sees Fatures end
members with US dollars and (ii) $122 million ($96 million-June 30,  forward contracts are contracts for delayee delvery of securities or money
1991) which were the proceeds from encashments of US-dollar-denomi-  market nstraments in wnich me seileragrees to make delivery ate specified
nated notes which are included in the amounts mentioned in (2) above, are  future date of a specified instrument, or a specified price or yeld. At June
freely usable by the .R9D in any of its operations The portion of the  30, 1992, the total contract vale of tures contracts was $17,803 milion
amounts paid in US-doOar-denominated notes are encashed by the IBRDn  ($8,445 i1ion-Jane 30, 1991) one the BID's exposura to credit ass on
accordance with the schedules agreed between the members and the B8ID.  fatures contracts doe to potental nenperformance of counterparties was $40
The remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members, referred to  ml   ($28 mllionu   30 1991) On June 30, 1992, the total contract
as restricted currencies, are usable by the BRID in its lending operations  vase st forward contracts was $474 millin ($449 mitlion n  30, 1991)
only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative  On June 30, 1992, I93  had no eoposure to credit lose n the event of
expenses. The equivalent of $5,465 millon ($4,876 millon-June 30,    nonperformence by cosnterparties ($0.3 mulIon-June 30, 19911.
1991) has been used for iending purposes, with such consent.         Covered forwards are agreements n which cash in one currency  s
Maintenance of Value: Article Il, Section 9 of the Articles of       converted nto a different currency and, simultaneously, a forward evchange
Agreement provides for maintenance of value, as of the time of subscription  agreement s executed provieing fore furure excbenge of the two cerrencies
of such restricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make additional  in orer to recooer the currency converted. At sane 30, 1992, the IBR0 han
payments to the IBRD In the event that the par value of ts currency is  gross receivales from covered torward agreements of $328 million ($92
reduced or the foreign exchange value of Its currency has, in the oipion of  mion-Jane 30, 1991) one gross payablno from  covered forward
the BRD depreciated to a significant extent m its territories and (2) the 3IRD  agreements of $376 mllien ($86 mllon-June 30, 1991). At June 30
to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is  1992, the BRID's exposre to credir l000 in the event of eonperformance by
increased                                                            counterpartes was $01 il   ($5 millin--Jnne 30,1991).
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance-of-value amounts  Options are contracts that allw tno holder of te option to purcnase or sell
are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member's  a financal nsrrment at a specifed prce and within a specified perd of
currency against the standard of value of BRD capita based on the 1974  time from the seller Or to too purchaser of tan option As a Seller Of Options,
SDR. Members are required to make payments to the IBRD if their currencies  the BRI receives a premim at the outset and then bears the risk of an
depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value Furthermore, the  snfavorable cnange n the prie of the financial insrment underlying the
Executive Directors decided to adopt a po icy of reimbursing members  on The total contract value of options so at June 30, 1992 was $1,020
whose currencies appreciate significantly i terms of te stanoard t vase  million ($407 mtoliop-Jute 30, 1991)


﻿Notes to Financial Statements             213
Short sales are sales of securites not held in the IRD s portolio at the time
of the sale The IRD must purchase the security at a later date and bears                               In millins
the risk that the market vajue of the security will move adversely between the
time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered The total                                 June 30 1992
contract amount of short sales at June 30 1992 was $2,598 million ($210                                Princpal
million-June 30, 1991) This amount 's included in Payables for                          Princiso     and charges
Investment Securities Purchased                                      Member cuntry     orsranding      overdue      Nuraccrua once
For both on- and off-baarce-sheet securities, the IRD limits trading to a
list of authorzed dealers and counterparties Credit imits have been  Congo              $  163             37      September 1991
established for each counrerparty by type of instrument and maturity  Gatemala . .         235             67      Joly 1990
category                                                             Iraq                    48            25      December 1990
The annualized rate of return on average investments net of cash collateral  Per         13             923      June   1987
received, held during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1992, includ og both
realized and unrealized gains and losses was 807 percent (9.23 per-  Sytian Arab
centu-Jne 30, 1991)                                                      pubt.c            466            395      February 1987
Total .. .. .. ..$2,085           $1,591
Note C-Loans, Cofinancing and Guarantees                                                ---
Loans: On July 23, 1991, the Bank's Executive Directors approveo a
one-year waiver of 25 basis points of interest on disbursed and outstanding
loans fora payment periods commencing in the fiscal year ending June 30  Dur'ng the fsca year 1992. Panama, Nicaragua, and Serra Leone pals off
1992 for all eligible borrowers Eligible borrowers means borrowers who pay  at ot their arrears ano roerefore loans ro then cane ot of norracrual
the IBRD in a timely manner For the year ended June 30 1992, $160    sratus As a resulr, come from  sans for roe fiscat year ended June 30,
million was set aside as a reduction of income due to the estimated effect 1992 increased by $222 milion corresponding ro income that woold have
of the interest waver Of this amount $132 million has been reflected as a  been accroeo in proessc00 years. For to fisca pear ended JLne 30
reduction in bus sent to the borrowers.                               991 icrease in on icome due rs leans to countries coming out of
At June 30, 1992, no loans payable to the BRID other than those referred  nonaccroal statos ojring roar year was $147  lo
to in the following paragraphs were overdue by more than three months  An analysis of the changos ro mu accumolared prosson for oan 00008
At June 30, 1992 principal installments of $13 m llion and interest and  appears below
other charges of $3 million payable to the IBRD on loans made to or
guaranteed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, excluding loans to
borrowers in or for the benefit of Croata and Slovena, were overdue by                                             In mi.uns
more than three months The aggregate principal amount outstanding on all
loans to or guaranteed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, exc uding
loans to borrowers in or for the benefit of Croatia and Sloven a was S1,709  Balance, beginning of scat year  81,990         $1,250
million The IBRD reached agreements in February 1992 on an interm basis  Prosion for loan ssses                353             775
with the Socialist Federal Repub| c of Yugoslavia (SFRY) (then consisting of  Translaton adjustments .97                        (35)
Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Macedonia) and with Croatia
and Slovenia for the service of debt due to the BRD on loans directly  Balance, end of fiscal year . . .     $2,540          $1,990
benefiting each of them, subject to the overall guarantee of the StFRY Given
these agreements, the 18RD treats loans benefiting Croatia and Slovenia
separately from loans made to or guaranteed by, the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia At June 30 1992 no loans benefiting Croatia or Slovenia were  Colinancing and Guarantees: The IBRD has entered ito agree-
overdue by more than three months                                    ments for loans synoicateo by orher tinanc'a nsritot'ons either by a direct
panticipation in, or a partial guarantee of, leans for the benefft of member
At June 30, 1992, the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member  coonren or a partial guarantee of securitoo issued op an entry eligte for
countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $2,085 million  990 leans. Toe BIRD's direct part cations in syndicared loans are
($2,496 million--une 30, 1991), of which $861 mllion ($950 million-   noised n reported loan batances
June 30, 1991) was overdue, were 'n nonaccroal status As of such date,
overdue interest and other charges in respect of these loans totaled $730  Goarantees of $1,139 m' st JLne 30 1992 ($1,134 milion-JunO 30,
million ($833 million--une 30, 1991) It these loans had not been in  1991) were nor noluded 'n reported 000 baanceo A total of $150 millon
nonaccrua status income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30,  of these guarantees was subiot to ca  or June 39, 1992 None of the
1992 would have been higher by $61 million ($149 million-une 30,     guarantees was subect to cat ounn 30, 1991.
1991). A summary of member countries wfth loans or guarantees in     Toe IB0 has partially guaranteed the rimely payment of interest amounts o
nonaccroal statos fellows                                            conesi loans that have seen solo Ar Jone 30, 1992 these guarantees,
approximating $9 milion ($10 milune-Jun 30, 1991), were suboct to
Pranlpa
Statutory Lending Limit:    dnr the Articoo of Agreement, the toa
amount outstanding of goarantees, pardicipatios 'n  ouanl, as   sieer  ans
made o. tho 9.0 may not he increased to an amount ceeding 100
(cOnyaOd)


﻿214       IBRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (contnued)
percent of the surr of subscrbed capital, reserves, and sLrplus On the  caten   respectve on ArJlie3O, 1992ondAJre30 1991,t"rewere
BRID s Baiance Sheet reserves and surpIts correspond to tens labehed  no oitstanding fonward Sales under such ogreemenrs and me BRG had no
Retained Earnings Cumulative Translation Adjustment, and Accumulated  eoposire To cr00ir less n the agreements
Provision for Loan Losses The IRD's Executive Directors have issued
guidelnes pirsiant to whch all guarantees ssued oy the IBRD1 m  he   Nate E-Retained Earnings and
counted towardstris mi tat the time they first become alable irrespective  Allocation of Net Income
of the likel[hood of an actual call In Maron 1991, the BRID's Executive
DOrectors decided that discussiors on an addit:onal capital increase would  Retained  Earnings: Retaned hornings compriyes thn following
be initiated if the tota  amount outstarding of caliable guarantees,  eemeots as et June 30. t992 ond Jne 30 1991
participations in loars, and direct loans were to exceed 80 percent of the
sum of subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus At June 30, 1992 sciT
total amount was $100 818 m lion or 60 percent (60 percenrt-Jone 30
1991) of such sum
1992            1991
Note D-Borrowings and Swaps                                          Special Reverse                       $   293          $   293
General Reserve .     .   .            10,894           10,444
The BRID has entered into currency swaps n which proceeds of a borrowing  Surplus..... ......370                               -
are converted into a dfferent currency and, simultaneously a forward  Unallocatec Net Income for the
exchange agreement is executed providing tor a schedule of future
exchanges of the toc currercies in order to recover the currency converted  fiscal hear                       1645            1,20
The combination of a borrowing and a currency swap produces the finarcial                                  $93202           $11,937
equivalent of substituting a borrowing in the currency obtained  in the initial
conversion for the original borrowing The IBRD also undertakes interest rate
swaps which transform a fixed-rate payment obligation in a particular
currency intc a floating-rate obligaton ir that corrency and vice-versa The
average cost of borrowings outstanding, Including short-term borrowings,
curing the fiscal year ended Jlne 30, 1992 was 729 percent (741
percent--June 30 1991), reflecting a reduction in interest expense of $483
million (S403 rillion--one 30 1991) as a result of swaps
income earned tn too fiscal year encec June 30, t991 to tee General Resere
At June 30 1992. the iBRD had gross receivables from currency swaps at  and proposed tee tonsters of $300 m.iion ano thn remainig $400 mll:on
a book value of 018 846 million ($14,615 million--Ane 30, 1991) and  of the net noome earned in that period to DA ano Surplos, respectively The
gross payables from currency swaps at a book value of $19.403 million  transfers to IDA ano Surplus mere mace ipon approval op the Board of
($15,068 m,lio-one 30 1991) In addition, the BRD had iterest rate  Governess on Dctober 17 1991 in additso, o transfer of $30 mion from
swap contracts covering a notional principal amount of $11.754 millin on  Surplus to the Technical Aosistance Trst Fond for the Usion of rho Soviet
june 30 1992 ($7,341 mrillion  June 30 1991)                         Soc olyr RePLblics wao approves hy the Board of Goverors, as describeo
At June 30, 1992 the 8RD was exposed to credit loss ir the event of  00iO6
nonperformance by ts counterparres in an aggregate amount of $1.400  Transfers to International Development Association: The
million ($1.027 miHlion-Ane 30, 1991) for outstanding currency swaps,  Board of Gevernors approved transfers to IDA Iotalig $3,241 miion from
and $79 mion ($28 mihon--June 30, 1991) for outstanding interest rate  Unalocated Net Income for rho fisca years enced Jue 30 1964 throgh
swaps, representing the estimated cost of replacing at current market rates,  jine 30 1987. Jone 30, 1989, one line 30. 199t Tee Bear ct Governors
all those outstanding swaps for wI ch the IBRD would incur a loss in  pproved o transfer from Unallocafed her Income for the fisca year ended
rep acing the contracts                                             Jone 30 1990 to Sirplos, and, en May 13 1991 approved the sibseqoent
transfer from Surplos of the eguivalent of SDR200 million ($267 million) to
The rBRD follows guidelines regarding the counterparties with whom It will  IDA Of these transfers. $1,039 mlion remained payable at Jone 30, 1992
enter into swap agreements and establishes ced)l lim ts for each of those 17 m  ion-Jure 30, 1991)
counterparties The iBRD does not anticipate norperformance by any of its
coutnerparties                                                       Transfers to Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Coun-
tries: In Seprember 1989 the Board cf Governors approved a transfer to
The 18RD enters into deferred rate setting agreements in conjunction with  the Debt Redaction hacilry for IDA-Oy Countries of $100 million from net
some of its bond Issies Those agreements provide for payments to be made  icome earned in the fisco year ended Jone 30 1989 Of these finds, $82
to or by the IBRD reflecting gair or less on one or more government  m lion tenaied poyable or line 30, 1992 (  miion-June 30, 1991)
securities These agreements allow the IBRD to fix the effective interest cost
to the 18RD of all or a portion of the issues over a specified period of time  Transfer to Global Environment Trust Fund: On Map 13
after the issue date of the respective bond The potential credit loss to the  199t, the Board of Governors approved a transfer frcm Sirplos ef $29
BRD from nonperformance is limted to any amounrts due, but unsettled  millionto T Gishot Env ronment Trost Fund Thy am   was paid in lone
from the financial intermediary However, periodic mark-to-market settle-  1991
meets on these agreements hrmit this risk. At June 30, 1992 and June 30,
1991, the effective interest cost had been fixed on all tranches of the deferred  Transfer to Technical Assistance Trust Fund for the
rate setting agreements, and the 18RD had no exposure to credit loss on the  Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics: On Soptember 18
agreements                                                           1991. the Beam  of Governors authroed a transfer from Sorplis of $30
millon to tee Technicol Assistance Trost Fvnd for the Union of toe Sovie1
The IBRD also enters into anticipatory rate setting agreements n con unction  Secalist Repiblics for the benefit of the JSE and ifs repoblics O Oc-
with some of its bond issues These agreements allow the IBRD, through a  loser t7, 1981 he Boaro of Governors approved a transfer to Sorpls of
series of forward sales of U.S Treasury securit es, to fix the effective interest  that amoont from deallocated Net Icome for the fisca pear ndne 30,
cost of all or a potion of tne isdes over a periro a time prior to the bsso  1991 This amoant wo p0d in Octtobet 1991


﻿Notes to Financial Statements             215
Note F-Expenses                                                                                                      In milions
Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of $395 million                                             1992       1991
($328 million-June 30, 1991) charged to IDA and $101 million ($65
million-june 30, 1991) charged to reimbursable programs Service and
support fees of $9 milon ($7 million-June 30, 1991) charged to lFC and  obigations
$0.5 million ($05 million-June 30 1991) charged to the Multilateral     Accumulated benetit obligation
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) are included in reimbursable programs    Vested...................$(2,664)               $(2,411)
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research,  Nonvested.................        ..(3)         (42)
the control of onchocerciasis, and other developmental activities              Subtotal...............           (2,69)      (2,453)
Effect of projected compensation
Note G-Staff Retirement Plan                                                levels....................(1,387)                (1,126)
The IBRD has a defined benefit retirement plan covering substantially all of  Projected benefit obigation         (4,086)    (3,579)
its staff. The Plan also covers the staff of FC and MIGA Under the Plan,  Plan assets at lair value.............4274          3,728
benefits are based on the years of contributory service and the highest  Plan assets in excess of projected benetit
three-year average of pensionable remuneration as defined in the Plan, with  oligation..................            188        149
the staff contributing a fixed percentage of pensionable remuneration and the  Remaining unrecognized nor asset    (143)       (155)
IBRD contributing the remainder of the actuarially determined cost of future
Plan benefits. The IBRD uses the aggregate method for determining iis
contribution to the Plan The amount of that contribution approximates the  Unrecognized net gain.............      (152)       (109)
net periodic pension cost as detailed below All contributions to the Plan  Prepaid pension cost.........        $     0     $     0
and all other assets and income held for the purposes of the Plan are held
by the IBRD separately from the other assets and income of the BRD, IDA,
IFC, and MIGA and can be used only for the benefit of the participants in
the Plan and their beneficiaries, until all iabilities to them have been paid  The welghted-average discoant rate used in determlong the actuaral
or provded for Plan assets consist primarily of equity and fxed income  present value of tne projected benefit obligation was 825 percent (8.25
securities, with smaller holdings of cash, real estate and other investments  percent-June 30, 1991) The effect of yrojected compensation levels was
Net periodic penson cost for IBRD participants for the fiscal years ended  calculated boson en a scale tnat provdes for a decreasing rate of saary
June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991 consisted of the following components.  dncreasn  tpecent at ae 6.   th x pecent     ate of   an
on assets was 9 percent (9 percent-June 30 1991)
in milions          Note H-Retired Staff Benefits Plan
1992         1991
___The B9I0 has a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) that proaides certain
Service cost-benefits earned during                                  oeits care and life insurance benefits to retirees. Al staff who are enrolled
the fiscal year . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $145     $ 122       in the insurance programs while in active service and who meet certain
Interest cost on projected benefit                                   requirements are eigible for benefits when they reach early or normal
obligation ................. ..            261          230       retirement age while working for the IBR0 The RSBP also cover the sf8
Actual return on plan assets . . . . . .    (422)         (194)      of IFC and MICA
Net amortization and deferral . . . . .      109           (91)      Retirees contribute a oel amoont toward io insurance based on rh
Net periodic pension cost  . . . . . . .   $  93         $  67       amoant of coverage Retiree contribotions toward health care are boson en
-                  length of service and age at retirement The 18R0 annually contributes the
remainder at the actuarially determined cost for futare benefits. All
contribations to the RSBP and all ether assets and income held for porposes
The portion of this cost that relates to the BRID and is included in  of the RSBP ore neld by the BIR0 separateiy from the ether assets and
Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1992 is $59  income of the IBR0, IDA, IC, and MICA and can be used only for the
million ($44 millionu-Jne 30, 1991). The balance has been charged to  benefit of the particiants *n the RSBP and their beneficiaries until a1
IDA                                                                   abifies to them have been paid or provded for. RSBP assets consist
The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status at June 30, 1992 and
1une 309 1991:
(continued)


﻿216       BRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements                                                           contnue
Net periodic postretrement benefits cost for iBRD participants for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1992 consisted of the following components:      In millions
Accumulated postretinement benefit obilgat or.
Retirees......... . . . . . . . .        . . . .     $(115)
Fully  eligible  active  plan  palicipants  . . . . . . . .  (51)
Other active plan particpants....       .    . ..   (146)
(312)
in millions                                                          Plan assets at fair vale...................               230
ServIce cost-benefits earned during the                              Accomniated postretirement benefit ciigarion in
fiscal year...... . .         . . . . . . . .           $ 10          excess ot plan assets.................                 (82)
Interest cost on accumulated postretirement                          Unrecognized trsition obhgaton............                 31
benefit obligation                     .                  20      Unrecognized net loss....................               .   53
Actual return on plan assets  . . . .....                   ( , 5)   Prepaio postref rement benet cosf............           $    2
Net amortization and deferral                                - . . . . . . .
Net periodic post-retirement benefits cost. .              $15
The        Fortoeosjmon pnrposs, on intil onna raf of nrease   the per
capita coot of covered nealts core benotfits sf 13 percenf was assumes. the
rate woo asdnm  to decrease gradL ny over   2 years ro   dtimarJ rare o
7 percent Thealoam core coor trendl rate assumprion nosea signiticant effect
on roe amomots repores To ba erarE, increasng ff assumed A  core
cosr trend rates by one percentage poinr woutd increase the accumulted
pcstr e   d remet beret ob iatmcn as ot one 3c, 1992 by $65 mi ion ass re
nor periodic postretirement benefit cost for the fiscal per then ened by 7$
The peto of                                                                  ofs coc root recaes to roe  nftRD as  fs 1n3 pn  wsaue
Arminwsstraasme Espedses                                                          e      cr the  g usca oeav ended  ere 30, 1952 is  yrmitiea
miten The balance fras been cnarged ro DA                            Too weiotred aserage  scunt: rare toes in detero ineg the accumulated
postretirement benefTt obligation was9 percent The expected long-term rate
The followirg tabl sets forthi,Te l  i.                              of retLrn on pan assets was 9 percent


﻿217
Report of Independent Accountants
Price Waterhouse    The Hague           Tokyo
(International Firm)  London           Washington
New York
Price Waterhouse
July 30. 1992
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 198 through 216 of this Report present fairly, in
all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development at June 30, 1992 and 1991, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States and with International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of
management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Auditing Guidelines, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


﻿
﻿219
Financial Statements of the
International Development Association, the
Special Fund Administered by IDA,
and the Debt Reduction Facility for
IDA-Only Countries Administered by IDA
Statements of Development Resources 220
Statements of Changes in Accumulated Surplus and Grants 221
Statements of Cash Flows 221
Summary Statement of Development Credits 222
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions 225
Notes to Financial Statements 228
Report of Independent Accountants 232


﻿220       IDA  Special Fund, and Debt Reduction Faciliy Financial Statements
Statements of Development Resources
June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                 Special Fund         Debt Reduction Facility
1992        1991        1992        1991        1992         1991
Development Resources
NET ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
Cash and investments Immediately available for disbursement
Duefrombanks.. . ... ..       ............ .. ...         $    43     $    54       $5          $1                  -
Obligations of governments and other official
entities-Note A . . . .  .....   . . . ....             1 653         756        51            9
Obligations of banks and other financial
inst;tutions- Note  A  ...  ...  .  ...  . . . .. .  .    1,383       1,246       212          183
Net payable or investment security transactions ...  .....   (109          (20)
2970        2.036       268          193
Cash and investments not mmediately available for
disbursement-Note B
Due from banks . ...   .   ...........7                                  7                     -           -
Obligations of governments and other official
entties-Note A . . . . . .    .   ......95                           102        --
Obligations of banks and other fiancial
institutions-Note A.................69 -B
170         109
Receivables on account of subscriptions and contribut,ons
Nonnegotiable noninterest-bearing demand obligations       19,234      16,326         97         138
Subscriptios and contributions-Note E
Amounts due ... ..     .. .....       .........            241         398        -           -
Amounts not yet due  .        .   .  .  .  .    .         5,420       8,849        -
Restr cted assets.....     .   . . .     . . .              280         280        -           -
25,181      25,843         97         138
Receivab,e from International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development-Note G   .                                  1,030         778         -           -         $82          $ 92
Other assets, net .  . .  .. . . ..  . . . . ......             15         106                      (1)        -           -
Grants payable-Note C        .    . . .    .                     -           -                                   (2)        (12)
Total net assets avalable for development activities .  .  29 466    28,872       366          330          80          80
DEVELOPMENT CREDITS OUTSTANDING
(see Summary Statement of Development Credits and
Note D)
Total development credits........      ...         .     75.64'      66,096         76          92
Less undisbursed balance ..............23,337                         20,618         76          92          -
Tota development credits disbursed and outstanding      52,304      45,478         0            0-
Total development resources             1.    .       $81770      $74,350      $366        $330        $ 80         $ 80
Funding of Development Resources
Member subscriptions and contributions (see Statement of
Voting Power and Subscrptions and Contributions,
Notes E and F)
Unrestricted. ......         ...     . . .               72,812      68,904        262         275                      -
Restricted                                                    2B.. . ... ... .. . . 2B  280  -         -
73,092      69,184       262          275
Other contributions-Notes F and G . .     .                    3427        3,016        -           -         $100         $100
Cumulative translation adiustment on development credits . .   3992        1,607        --                                   -
Accumulated Surplus (see Statements of Changes in
Accumulated Surplus and Grants) . .... ..... . .    .       1,259        543        104          55          ---
Accumulated Grants (see Statements of Changes in
Accumulated Surplus and Grants and Note C)     -.-                                    -           -           l20)        (20)
Total funding of development resources                SB1,770     $74 350      S366        $330        $ 80         $ 80
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿Statements of Cash Flows        221
Statements of Changes in Accumulated
Surplus and Grants
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Debt Reduction
IDA                Special Fund            Facilty
1992       1991       '992       1991       1992       1991
ACCUMULATED SURPLUS AND GRANTS
h come from development credits-Notes D and H  .         361      $ 347        -                      -
Income from nvestments-Note H .......... . .. .          350        308      $ 24       S 20
Management fee charged by the Internationai Bank for
Reconstruction and Development-Note H       .          3951     (328)        -
Amortization of discount on subscriPtion advances ..B                (7)        -
Grants-Note C    .............. ........ ..          .    -          -          -              -               S(20)
Changes from operations ard grants . . . .  . . ....310             320         24        20                   (20)
Effect of exchange rate changes on accumulated surplus   406       (155)        25        (14)                  -
Net changes ..........................                 716       165         49          6                    (20)
Balance at beginning of fisca year .. ... ...... ....  543        378         55        49        $(20)       -
Balance at end of fiscal year ...... ... ......        $1 259     $543        $104       $55        $(20)      $(20)
Statements of Cash Flows
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1991
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Debt Reduction
DA                Soecal Fund             eFac ity
1392       199        992       1991       '992        1991
Cash flows from  development activities  ...  . ..  .
Development credit disbursements .... ... ....  $4 743)    $(4 511)     $(22)      $(37)        --
Develo2ment credit pr ncipal repayments              324        274
Debt reduction grant disbLrsements                    C-        -          -                   $1)         $ (8)
Net cash used in development activities ...   (4.419)   (4,237)      (22)        (37)       ('0)        (8)
Cash flows from member subscriptlors and
contributions  ...  ........  ...  ...  . ...... .  4423      3,934        49        123                    -
Cash flows from otner contribDuins ....  ...          211        322        -          -          10           8
Cash flows from coerating activ!Ies
Changes from operaions and grants                   310        320        24         20         --        (20)
Adjustments to reconcile changes from onerations
and grants to net cash provided by operating
activines
Amortzation of discount on subscrption advances    6           7        -                     -
Decrease in receivables from Internationa Bank
for Reconstruction and Developmen--                                              -          10           8
Net changes  in  other assets and  ilia ilit es  . .  5        (4)       (1)         1        (10)        12
Net cash provided by operating activities       321        323        23         21          0           0
Effect of excharge rate cnanges on cash and
investments immedately available for disbursement .  398       (100)       25        1141
Net increase in casn and investments immediately
available  to, disbursement  .....  ....  ....  ..   93z        242        75         93          0          0
Cash and investments immediately avai able for
disoursement at beginning of iscai year . .......  2 036     1,794       193        100          0          0
Cash and nvestments immediately avalabne for
disbursement at end of fiscal yea.. ...S...     $ 2.970    $2,036       $26B       $193       $ C         $ 0
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿222     IDA, Special Fund, and Debt Reduction Facility Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                           Specia Fund                     Total
Percentage of
Total   Unoisbursec  Deve'opent  Total    Undisbursed  Develoomert Development  development
developmert  developmeit  credits  development  devetopmen  credits  crs        credits
Borrower or guarantor  credits    credits'  ourstarding  credits    credits  outstanoing  cutsanding  outstarding
Aighans'an  .     . . .  $  6    $  -       $   76      $          $          $-        $    76       0.15
Albania  ......  ....      43        43          -                                           -          -
Angola  . . .  .  .  .    176       173           3                                            3       0.01
Bangladesh .. . . .     6.260      1,772      4.488         6                     6        4,494       859
Benin                    533       158         375        12         -          12          387       0.74
Bhutan                     25         7          18        -                                  18       0.03
Bolivia . . .             834       361         473                               -          473       0.90
Botswara . ... ...         13        -           13                                           13       002
Burkina Faso             671        314         357         -                                357       0.68
Burundi .... ...          737       263         474                              -           474       0.91
Camercon . , . . .        233        ---        233                    -                     233       0.45
Cape Verde  ......  .      26         9          17                                           17       0.03
Central Afrcan
Repubic . ... ..       451        152         299                                          299       0.57
Cnad   .........          354       101         253         -         --                    253       0.48
Chile                      13                    13         -         --                      13       0.03
China  .......  ....    6.584      2606       3,978        81                    81        4,059       776
Colomnoa                   13        --          13        -                      -           13       0.03
Comoros                    61        21          40        -                                  40       0.08
Congo   ......             75        -           75        -                                  75       0.14
Costa Rica                  3        --           3        -                                   3       001
Cbted Ivc.re              129        16         113                               -113                022
Djibouti                   60        25          35         -                                 35       0.07
Dominica                   13         2          li                                           11       0.02
Dominican Republic         20        -20                                         -            20       0.04
Ecuador                    30        --          30        --30                                        006
Egypt    .              1,188       277         911                              -           911       1.74
El Salvador                22        -           22         -_22                                       0.04
Equato,ia G.inea           56        14          42                   -                       42       0.08
Ethiop!a . . .....     1.542       602         940                                          940       1.80
Gamb a, The  . . .        167        43         124                                          124       0.24
Ghara ........         2,428       880        1,548       48                    48        1.596       3.05
Grenada                     7        ---          7        -           --                      7       0.01
Guinea                    841       330         511         -         -          -           511       0.98
GLinea-Bissau . . .       213        55         158         6                     6          164       0.31
Guyana......              173        39         134                   --         -           134       0.26
Hait! .........         473       148         325        17          3         1           339       0.65
Honduras     .            215        46         169        -          -          -           169       0.32
Inda   .... .. . ..   19.146      4.473     14,673        93         57         36       14,707      28,12
noesa      . ...          822        -          822        --         --         --          822       1.57
Jordan. .. . ...   .    .75         -           75        -                      --          75       0.14
Kenya ... ... .....     2.074       712        1.362       54         14         40        1,402       2.68
Korea, Republic of         94                    94        ---                    -           94       0.18
Lao People's
Democrat,c
ReDublic .             303        125         178                   -                      178       0.34
Lesotno  . .......       223        96         127        --                                127       0.24
Liberia  .  ........      108         3         105                   -                      105       020


﻿Summary Statement of Development Credits            223
IDA                            Special Fund                    Total
Percentage of
Totaf    Undsbursed  Development  Total   Undisbursed  Development Development  development
deve,opnent development  credis   development development  credits    credits      cred1s
Borrower or guarantor  credits    credits  outstandng   credits    credits  outstanding  outstanding  outstanding
Madagascar ... ....    $ 1,260    $  405     $   855      $39        $          $ 39       $  894        1.71
Malawi ...........       1,305       427         878        19                     19         897       1.71
Maldives ......... ..      37         19          18       -                      -            18       0,03
Mali ............         878        306         572        15          1          14         586        1.12
Mauritania . . ....       336        107         229        -                     -           229       0.44
Maurtus ... ...           18         -           18         -                                 18       0.04
Mongolia .        .......  37         21          16             -                -            16       0.03
Morocco . . .. .... ..     38         -           38       -           -          -            38       0.07
Mozambique .......        951        606         345        -                     -           345       0.66
Myanmar . .......         873        105         768        -                     -           768        1.47
Nepal ....... .....      1,378       632         746         -                    -           746       1.43
Nicaragua , . .           187          3         184         -                    -           184       0.35
Niger . . . ...... .      624        138         486                              -           486       0.93
Nigeria . ... . . ...     690        615          75                              -            75       0.14
Pakistan .... ....    3,743       1,327      2,416                              -          2,416      4.62
Papua New Guinea .        113         -          113         -                    -           113       0.22
Paraguay . ... -           40         -           40         -                    -            40       0.08
Philippines ........      208         73         135       -          -                      135       026
Rwanda .... ... ..        698        299         399                              -           399       0.76
St. Kitts and Nevis         2          1           1         -                    -             1
St, Lucia ......            6          4           2                              -             2
St. Vincent  ........       3                      3         6                      6           9       0.02
Sto Tome and
Principe ........        69         38         31        -                      -            31       0.06
Senegal . . .  . ... ..  1,150       304         846        25                     25         871        1.67
Sierra Leone ...          193         96          97             -                -            97       0.19
Solomon Islands .          19                     19        -          -                       19       0.04
Somalia . . . ... ....    549        129         420        -                -                420       0.80
Sri Lanka . ...... .     1,749       651       1,098        -                     -          1,098      2.10
Suda   ......... . .     1,373       253       1.120        14                     14        1,134      2.17
Swaziland ...... ..         7         -            7        -                     -             7       0.01
Syran Arab Republic        44         -           44                   -          -            44       0.08
Tanzania ... . . . . . . 2,331       781       1,550       -                      __         1,549      2.96
Thailand ...... ... .     107         -          107                   -          -           107       0.20
Togo ...... ......        576        142         434        26         -           26         460       0.88
Tonga............           5          2           3        -                     -             3       0.01
Tunisia ....... .. .      57         -           57        -                     -            57       0.11
Turkey ... ...... ...    150         -          150         -                    -           150       0.29
Uganda .... ..... .      1,853       696       1,159        -                     -          1.159      222
Vanuatu  .........         17          6          11        -          -          -            11       0.02
Viet Nam  . .. . .. . .    58         --          58       -                      -            58       0.11
Western Samoa .....        42         12          30                   -          -            30       0.06
Yemen, Republic of . ,   1,041       378         663        14          1          13         676       1.29
Zaire ... ...... .      1.502       297       1.205        -          -          -          1,205      2.30
Zambia .... ... ....     934        355         579         7                      7         586       1.12
Zimbabwe ...... ....274              182         92        -                     -            92       0.18
Subtotal members .   75,128     23.276      51.852      482          76        406       52,258
(continued)


﻿224      IDA, Special Fund, and Debt Reduction Facility Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits (confinued)
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                               Special Fund                       Total
Percentage of
Total     Undisbursed  Development   Totai     Undisbursed  Development  Development  developnent
developnent  development   credits   devejopment  development   credits      credits      credits
Borrower or guarantor     credits    creditsb    outstanding   credits     credits    outstanding  outstanding  outstanding
West African
Development BankO     $    63     $     45     $    18       $ -         $ -          $ -        S    18         0.03
Caribbean
Development Bankd          35           16          19         -           -           -              19         0.04
Othere .............           9          -             9        -            -           -              9         0.02
Total--Lure 30 1992a     S75,235     $23,337      $51,898      $482         $ 76        $406       $52,304       100.00
Total-June 30, 1991a     $65,742     $20,618      $45,124      $446         $ 92        $354       $45,478
indicates amounts less than $05 milion or 0.005 percent.
a In the Statement of Deveiopment Resources at June 30, 1992 total development credits of $75 641 mill on ($66,096 million-June 30, 1991) and total
development credits disbursed and outstanding of $52,304 million ($45 478 milion-June 30, 1991) include development credits outstanding of $406 million
($354 milion-June 30, 1991) which were originated under the Special Fund, since such amounts are repayabie to lDA isee Notes to Financia
Statements-Note D)
b. Of the und:sbursed balance at Jure 30, 1992 IDA has entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse $273 million ($249 million-June 30, 1991)
c. These development credits are for the benetr of Berm, Burkina Faso, Cote dIvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.
d. These development credits are for the beneft of Grenada and territories of the United Kingdom (Associated States and Dependencies) in the Caribbean region.
a Represents development credits made at a tine when the authorties on Taiwan represented China in IDA (prior to May 15, 1980).
Maturity Structure of Development Credits*
Period                                                              IDA                Specia Funda                 Total
July 1. 1992 through June 30, 1993 ............                   S   391                   $ -                   S   391
July 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994 ...............                    444                      2                      446
July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995 .......     ......                 509                      5                      514
July 1, 1995 through June 30, 1996 .............                      590                      5                      595
July 1, 1996 through June 30, 1997  ........ ....                     657                      5                      662
July 1, 1997 through June 30, 2002   ........ ...                   5,533                     25                     5,558
July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2007 ...............                   9,188                    57                     9,245
July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2012 ... ....... . .,                11,732                     72                    11,804
July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2017 . ... .........                 13.458                     72                    13,530
Ju.y 1, 2017 through June 30, 2022 ............. I .               13,190                     72                    13.262
July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2027 ...      . . ......             11,220                    72                    11,292
July 1. 2027 through June 30, 2032 ...... ... ....                   6,523                    72                     6,595
July 1, 2032 through June 30, 2037  ...............                  ',798                    23                     1,821
July 1, 2037 through June 30, 2042 ........                             2                    -                           2
Total .. ..... . .......  ...................                  $75.235                  $482                   $75,717
Includes undisbursed balance
a. In the Statement of Development Resources at June 30, 1992, total development credits of $75,641 million ($66,096 million-June 30, 1991) include
development cred,ts outstanding of $406 milion ($354 mil)on-June 30, 1991) which were originated under the Specia Fund , since suc& amounts are
repayable to IDA (see Notes to Financial Statements-Note D).
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Cortributions                225
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions
June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars except vote data
IDA
Number        Percentage      Subscriptions        Special
of             of               and               Fund
Membera                                                            votes          total         contributions     contributionsb
Part I Members
Austrahia                                                       113973           138           $ 1,2932            $  -
Austria  . .. .  .  .  .  .                                     53,267          0,64              587.9
Belgium .                                                        97,228          1.18            1,1949                49
Canada .                                                        258,991          3.14            3,329.3              162
Denmark                                                          77,944          094               906.3               35
Finland                                                          52,841          064               555.4              -
France .                                     . . .  . .         328,072          397             4,900.5              149
Germany                                                         567,447          6.87            8,3530               -
Iceland      .       ..                                          19,666          024                127
Ireland .                                                        24,123          029                866               -
Itaiy                                                           239,013          289             3,3131                93
Japan           . . . .        .                               823,431          9.97           14,681 5              -
Kuwait .  .   . ... ... .                                        68728           0.83              6498               -
Luxembourg                                              ,        20,712          025                38.1              -
Netherlands                                                     175,010          2.12            2,711.5              -
New Zealand . .                                                  24200           029                75.3
Norway                         . .                               77,879          094               886.6               40
Russian Federation ...24,901                                                    030               142.5              -
South Africa                                                     24,864          0.30               69.7
Sweden ......167,434                                                            203             2,016.8               79
Switzerland .    ..22,324                                                        0.27               51 2              -
tied Arab Emirates . .                                           1,367          0,02                56               -
United Kingdom ,                                       ..445,093                 539             58509                -
United States    . . .             .                           1,339.194        16.22           18,0815               -
Subtotal Part 1 Members*                                  5,047,702        61.12            69,7940              607
Part II Members
Afghanistan                  .     .                             13,557          016                 13               -
Albania                                                          19,625          024                 03               -
Algeria  .       .                                              18,481          022                 5.1              -
Angola .    ....                                                 45,662          055                 7.9              -
Argentina                            ..81,053                                    098                491
Bangladesh .                                                     49,130          059                 7.1              -
Belize  .                                                         1,788          0.02                02               -
Benin                                                             4,800          006                 0.6              -
Bhutan ...                                                        7,777          009                 01               -
Bolivia .                                                        13,748          017                 1.3              -
Botswana.    .       .      . . .                     .          19222           0.23                02               -
Braz:I                .137767                                                    1.67               776               -
Burkina Faso . . .   .                 .....                     14.283          0.17                07               -
Burundi  .                                                       17,418          021                 1 0
Cambodia  .      .    .           .                               7,826          009                 1.3              -
Cameroon  . . .                                                  13,854          0 17                1.3              -
Cape Verde  . . . . .  .              .  . .                       516          001                 0.1              -
Central African Republic .  .                                    10,920          013                 0 7              -
Chad                                       .. . . .             10,990          013                 0.7              -
Chile                                                            31,782          038                 4.5              -
China   .                                                       165,488          200                396               -
Colombia                                                         34,350          042                225               -
Comoros     ..... .                                              13,083          0.16               01               -
Congo                                                             6,685          008                 06               -
Costa Rica                                                        7,844          009                 03               -
C61e dIvoire  .               .                                  12700           0.15                1.3              -
Cyprus .                     .                                   22,648          327                 1.1              -
Czechoslovakia                                                   50,401          0 61               212               -
(continued)


﻿226       IDA, Special Fund, and Debt Reduction Facility Financial Statements
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions (continued)
June 30. 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars except vote data
IDA
Nunber        Percentage      Subscriptons          Special
of             of               ard                Fund
Membera                                                             votes          total          contrbutions     contribUtionSb
Part II Members (continued)
Djibouti   ...              .                                       532           001           S     0.2           $    -
Domnica   0.                      .                              0524           0 13                 2.1
Dominican Repub ic              .                        .        '6129           0.20                06                 -
Ecuador                   .      . .                              18382           0 22                08                 -
Egypt                                                            36796            045                 65                 -
El Salvador .         .                                           6 244          0.08                 0.4
Equatona Guinea                                                   6,167          007                  04                 -
Ethopia                        .      .               . .         21,171          0.26                07                 -
Fiji .                                                            2,130           0 23                0 7
Gabon      .                      .                   .           2,093           0 03                06                 -
Gambia The                     .        .             . .         10,644          013                 03                 -
Ghana                          .       .                .        20.418           0 25                30                 -
Greece .                                                 .       28,503           0.35               123                 -
Grenada              .                                            14,496          0 18                 1                 -
Guatemala                                                         27.  . .  2,73  015                 2.5                -
Gnta.              .  .  .                           .           22,150          027                 1.3                -
Gu,nea-Bissau   .       . .                                         528           001                 0 2
Guyana           .        .                              .        18160           2.22                10                 -
Haiti          . .        .                                       17.143          0 21                1 C
Honduras                                                          16,598         0.20                 0.4                -
Hungary                                                          62,883          076                 26 4                -
Incia .                                                         259,357          314                 542                 -
Incoes a        . .     .                                       81.920           099                146                 -
irar, Islamic Republic o  .                                       15,455         019                  5 9                -
iraq                                                              9.407          011                  1 0                -
irae                    . .                                     14B44           0 18                 2 4                -
Jordan .                                                          '.9 .  9893   0.24                 0 4
Kenya .             . .                                           20688           025                 2 2                -
Kiribati                      .     .                 .           4755            006                 0.1                -
Korea, Repubic of       .   .                                    30 865           237                655                 -
Lao People's Democratic Republic                                  11 723          0 14                0 6                -
Lebanon                                                . 8562                    .10                 0 6                -
Lesotho               .        .      . .                         19.222          023                 0 2
Liberia                                                           18,067          0.22                1.0                -
Libya            . . .                                            7,771          009                  13                 -
Madagascar                                                          702           0 01                12                 -
Malawl                                                           22,648           0.27                1 0
Malaysia              .       ..  .        .    .32,722                        0 40                3 5                -
Maldives                .    .   . .      .             .         18,470         022                  0 1                -
Mali                             . .                    .        22,323           027                 1 2                 -
Mauritania                                                       10.885           013                07                 -
Mauritius      .          .   .                       .           23.257          028                 1 2                -
Mexico                          .                        .        54,107          066                74 7                -
Mongoha                                                  .          546           001                 2 3                -
Moroccos                                                 .        35982           044                 4.8                -
Mozambique      . .                                   . . .         774           2 01                1.7                -
Myanmar   .               .                                      29.901          036                 2 8
Nepal.     .....              .    ...      .       . .        20,802          0 25                 0 7                -
Nicaragua  .             .                                       20,001           0.24                0 4                -
Niger.  ..         .    ..                           .           16.541          020                 07                 -
N gera                    . ,257                                                 010                 4 2                 -
Oman .          .   .   ,     .                                   20,004          024                 0.4                -
PaKistan                                                          76,240          0 92               13 6                -


﻿Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions                227
IDA
Number        Percentage       Subscriptions        Special
of              of              and               Fund
Member'                                                            votes           total         contributions     contributions'
Panama                          .                                 5,657           0.07               0.1           $    -
Papua New Guinea                                                 13,050           016                1.1
Paraguay                                                         11,419           0.14               04-
Peru  ...  .  .  .                                                5,699           007                2.1
Philippines  .  .  .  ..... .                                   16,583           0.20               6.5
Poland  .  .  ....  .               .                 ....195,960                 237               45.6
Rwanda   . . . .   .   ,                 .                       12,667           015                1.0
St. Kitts and Nevis                                                 526           0.01               0.2
St. Lucia                                                        17,902           0.22               02
St. Vincent  .  ...  ..                                             514           0.01               01
S5o Torri and Principe                                           4,714           006                0.1
Saudi Arabia ...                                                278,621           3,37            1,883.2
Senegal                                                          22,030           0,27               2.3
Sierra Leone .. ....          .                                  12,667           0.15               10
Solomon Islands            . . .           .   .   .                518           0.01               0.1
Somalia  .  . ..              .  .  .  .                         10,506           0.13               10
Spain    ...                                                    110,739           1.34             338.3
Sri Lanka                                                        35,646           0.43               4.0
Sudan    . . . ....                                            18.084           0.22               13
Swaziland                                                        11,073           0.13               0.4
Syrian Arab Republic .                                            7,651           0.09               1.2                -
Tanzania       . .   . . .      .                     .          20,688           025                2.1                -
Thailand                  . . . .                      .         35,646           0.43               42                 -
Togo  .....                                                      17,143           0.21               10                 -
Tonga .                                                          11.380           014                01                 -
Trinidad and Tobago .                                               770           0.01               1.6                -
Tunisia  . .  ...      .        ..2,793                                           0,03                1.9               -
Turkey                . . . . .                                  53,583           0.65              39.5                -
Uganda                                                           16021            0.19               2 1                -
Vanuatu  ..                                                      9,194           0.11               02                 -
Viet Nam              . . . . . .                  .              8,889           0.11               19                 -
Western Samoa        . .        .                                12,968           0.16               0.1
Yemen, Republic of  .  .        .                                24,658           0.30               2 1                -
Yugoslavia .  ..... .                                            53,167           0.64              25.8                -
Zaire  ...  ... .. ..  .                                        12,164           0.15               38                 -
Zambia ...........             .                     .           23,930           0.29               34                 -
Zimbabwe .....   ...                                              1,324           0.02               50                 -
Subtotal Part II Members  .                               3,211,037         3888             2,953.3               -
Total -une 30, 1992*   .                                       8.258,739        10000           $72,7474          $    607
Total-June 30, 1991b                                           7.638,912                        $68,860.9          $   598
May differ from the sum of individual figures shown because of round:ng,
a. See Notes to Financial Statements-Note E for an explanation of the two categories of membership.
b. In the Statement of Development Resources at June 30, 1992, member subscriptions and contributions of $73,092 million ($69,184 miliion-June 30, 1991)
include Special Fund contrbutions of $345 mlilion ($323 million o-June 30, 1991), snce the development credits that were funded using these resources are
repayable to IDA (see Notes to Financial Statements-Note E)
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.


﻿228       IDA, Speciol Fund, and Debt Reduction Facility Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting                                    interpret the words "US dollars of the weght and hneness in effect erl
and Related Policies                                                 Janoary 1 1960" in Article 11, Section 2(b) at the Articles at Agreement o
IDA to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the Interna
IDA's princ pal financial statements are prepared n conformity wilt the  tioral Monetary Fund as tee SUR was valued in terms of US dalrr.
accountirg prnciples gene-ally accepted in the United States and with  mmediately betore the introduction athe asKet method at valuing the SDF
internatioral Accounting Standards                                   n July 1,1974, such vale being equal to S1.20635 tsr one SDP Ithe 197z
SDR), and also decidad to apply the same standard of value to amountL
Oraiainand Operations                                            expressed in t960 dollars in the relevant resolations at the Board a
Organization andsernors.
IDA: IDA was established on September 24 t960 to promote economic    The subscrptions and contritris provied through toe third replenish-
development increase productivity and rase the standard of ivng of is  ment are nxpressed on the bass ot the 1974 SDR, Priarts the decision at
developing country members                                           the Executve D,rectors IDA nod eased tnese subscriptins and contribi-
Special Fund: On October 26, 1982 IDA establ shed the Specia Fund   tins on the basis at the SDR at the current market value et the SDR
constituted by funds to be contributed by members o' IDA and admir stered  The subscript,ons and contribtl  provided under the tourth replenish-
by IDA, to supplement the regular resources available for lending by iDA  mlnl and reatr are espressD in members' currencies at SDRs and ate
The arrangements governing the Special Find may be amended or
terminated by IDA's Executve Directors subject to the agreement of a  payable ln members' cirrencies Beginning Ju,y 1,1986, subscriptions and
qualified majority of the coitributors to the Speclai Fund. The resources of
the Special Fund are keol separate from the resources ofI            at market rates ot exchange an the sates they were made available Prier to
the pecal Fnn  re hot eparte ramthat date, subscriptions and corntribut[ons whlch hod been disbursed or
Debt Reduction Facility: Or Septembe. 28. 1989, IDA estab ised he   converted into othr currencies were transated at market rates at exchange
Debt Reductior Facility for IDA-Only Countres (the Debt Reduction Facility)  on dates ot disbursement at conversion Subscriptions and contributions
consttuted by contributions of tFe IBRD to facilitate commercial debt  not yet avahle tar disbursements are translated at market rates ot
reduction for DA-Only Countries The Debt Reduction Facility is a0minis-  exchange at the end at te accountig period
tered by IDA The rescurces of the Debt Reduction Facilty are kept separate  Special Fund: Beginning Apr 1, 19B9, subscriptans and ortributions
from the resources of IDA                                            receved bat not yat disbursed, as el as subscrilonns and contributios
disbursed or conrted into other currencies, ame translated at market rates
Translation of Currencies                                            ot exchange on the dates theywore made avaieabletur disbursement in cash
to the Spec a Fund Prior to that date, subscriptions and colt butions
IDA's principal financa statements are expressed ir terms of US dollars  Afrcchhad hen disbursed or cenverted into ether currencies were translated
solely for the purpose ot summar zing IDA s Imancial position and th  or market rates at exchange on dates at disburspment or conversion
results of ts operations for the convenerce of its members and other  Subscriptions and contributions receivable ore translated at market rates at
nterested part us                                                    eange at the end ct the accoantsg period.
IDA: IDA is an international organ zation that conducts ts operatoris a the
currencies of all of its members. Assets and iabilities are translated at  Development Credits
market rates of excharge at me end of the accounting period Subscriptions
and contr but ons are translated in the manner descrnbed below. Income and  Al' development cred rs are made Is member govemnents or to toe
expenses are translated at tee market rate of exchange at the dates or which  government eta territory ot a membe leocept tot development credits which
they are recognized or at an average of the market rates of excnange in effect  hase beer mode to regonal development banks tar the beneit at members
dunng each month Translaton adoutments reang to the revaluation of cr tertories at members at IDA) It is the policy ot DA to place in
deve opment credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SORs) are  ninaccrual status all development credits made to a member government er
charged of credited to Cumulat ve Translation Ad)ustment on Development  to ta goverment at a teTitofy of a member it principai or charges with
Credits Other translation auustments are charged or credited to the  respect to any such deveopment credit are ooerdue by mare than si
Accumulated Suip is                                                  months, unless IDA management derermines Tat the overdie amount il
be collected in the immediate tutir On the date a member's development
Special Fund: Assets of the Special Fund are translated at market rates  credits are placed in nonaccria' status charges that had been accrued an
of exchange at the end of the period Contr butions are translated in the  deveaoment credits oitstanding to the member which remained unpad are
manner descrbed below. Income is translated at market rates of exchange  deducted tram the income ot the current setiad. In addition, it sans by the
on dates of recognition of income. Trarsat,on adjustments a,e cnarged of  lIRD to a member government are places 1 nacrual status, all develp-
credited to the Accumuated Surplus.                                 mart credits to mat member governmen will aso be places in ronaccrual status
Debt Reduction Facility: The resources and grants of the Debt        by IDA Charges 01 noraccring development credits are icuded in 'ncome
Reduction Facirty are denominated in US dollars.                     orly to lee earent that payments have actually been received by IDA
IDA riss nor suff-ed any asses on deve'apment creolt feceivab,es aed has
Valuation of Subscriptions and Contributions                         estabiste  c o  sor credit losses oecause no lasses are anticipated
IDA: Tne subscriptions and contributios prov ded throigh the th rd  IDA: The repayment obigations ot DA's deveiapment credits funded tram
replenishmant are expressed n terms of "US dollars of the weignt ans  resources thrugh the fit reilenishrent are expressed in the develoment
fineness in effect on Januar 1, 1960" (1960 dollars) Following the  cragreerl in terms at 1999 dcllars, O June 30, 1987, te Executive
aboliton of gold as a common denom,nator of the monetary system n  Te  Directors decided tovalue reuse oeve'apment credits at the rate an  $120935
receal of the provision of the US law defining the par value of the US dollar  per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Deveopment credits funded tram
in terms of gold the ore-ax at.ng basis for translatng 1960 do ars into fesoirces provides under the sixth reper,shment and thereater are
current dollars or any othe currency cisappeared On June 30, 1987 toe  denominated  a SDRs, the prircipu  amounts disbursed unset such
Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect on that date and unt.I such  develoment credits are to be repaid in curency amounts currently
mTe as tee relevant provismons om the At                                       befo Agreement ore ametded, to  thiebsent to tee SoRs isabrsec


﻿Notes to Financial Statements              229
Special Fund: Special Fund development credits are denominated in    As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IDA is party to financial
SORs, The principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are  instruments with off-balance-sheet risk, including futures and covered
to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs    forward contracts, Futures are contracts for delayed delivery of securities or
disbursed.                                                           money markef instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery af a
specified fture date of a specitied instrument, at a specified price or yield.
Special Fund development credits are made on the same terms as regular  At June 30, 1992, the total contract value of futures contracts was $53
IDA development credits except that the proceeds of Special Fund     million ($149 millioa-June 30, 1991) and IDAs exposure to credit loss or
development credits may be used only to finance expenditures for goods or  f tures contracts due to potential nonperformance of counterparfies was $4
services from (a) Part 1l members of IDA: (b) Part I members contributing  million ($11 million--June 30, 1991).
to the Special Fund; and (c) Part I members contributing to the regular
resources of IDA through IDA's FY84 Account who have notified IDA that  Covered forwards are agreements in wich cash in one currency is
such contributions are to be treated in the same manner as contributions to  converted into a different currency and, simultaneously, a forward exchange
the Special Fund for purposes of any future adjustment of the voting rights  agreement is executed providing fr a future exchange of the two currencies
of the members of IDA.                                              in order to recover the currency converted. At June 30, 1992 IDA had no
gross receivables or gross payables from covered forward agreements At
Debt Reduction Facility Grants                                       June30 1991, IDA had gross receivables from covered forward agreements
of $24 million and gross payables from covered forward agreements of $23
All Debt Reduction Facility grants are made to member governments for the  million. IDA had no exposure to credit loo in the event of nonpertormance
purpose of assisting in clearly identified debt reduction operations. All  by counterparhes at June 3D, 1992 ($0.3 million--June 30, 1991).
IDA-Only Countries (countries below the operational threshold for which no
l8RD lending is projected over the next few years) with a heavy debt burden  Note B-Cash and Investments Not Immediately
are eligible to receive grants. Debt Reduction Facility grants are decided on
a case-by-case basis, taking into account the existence of a medium-term  Available for Disbursement
adjustment program and a strategy for debt management acceptable to IDA.  Under the Articles of Agreement and the arrangements governing replen-
On March 26, 1992, the Executive Directors extended the availability of Debt  ishments IDA must take appropriate steps to ensure that, over a reasonabe
Reduction Facility resources to July 31, 1994. Any funds not disbursed  period of time, the resources provided by donors for lending by IDA are
within that period will revert to IDA and be available for use in its general  used on an approximately pro rata basis. Donors sometimes contribute
operations.                                                          resources substantially ahead of their pro rata share Unless otherwise
agreed, IDA dues not disburse these funds ahead of donors' pro ratn shares.
Investments                                                          Cash and Investments Not Immediately Available for Disbursement repre-
sents the difference between the amount contributed and the amount
IDA carries its investment securities at market value. Both realized and  available for disbursements on a pro rata has
unrealized gains and losses are included in income from investments.
Reclassifications                                                    Note C-Debt Reduction Facility Grants
Certain reclassifications of the prior year's information have been made to  During the fiscal year ended June30, 1991. the Executive Directors
confrm o th curen yea's resetaton.approved debt reduction grants of $10 million for Niger and $10 mi llion for
conform to the current years presentation.Mozambique. At June 30, 1992, $8 million an                            $10 million of these
amounts had been disbursed for Niger and Mozambique, respectively. The
Note A-Investments                                                   remainder is reflected as Grants Payable.
Following is a summary of the currency composition of the investment
portfolio at June 30. 1992 and June 30, 1991:                        Note D-Development Credits
In millions of US-dollar equivalent                                  Special Fund development credits disbursed and outstanding of $406
million at June 3D, 1992 ($354 miflion--June 30, 1991) are included in the
IDA          Special Fund      Statements of Deveopment Resources of IDA, since principal repayments
on these development credits shall become part of the general resources of
Currency                        1992     1991     1992    1991      IDA, unless otherwise provided inu decision of IDA's Executive Directors to
Austalin dolar ...  ...  $  $  23  $     $-         terminate administration of the Special Fund by IDA.
Australian dollars .. .. .. . ...$  B    $ 323    $ -     $ -
Belgian francs ... ... .....       52       -        6               At June 30,1992, no principal installments or charges payable to IDA other
Canadian dolars  ...... ...135             10      57      46      than those referred to in the following paragraphs were overdue by more
Danish kroner ...  .... . ...      78       11       6       2       than tnree months. At June 30, 1991, principal installments of $0.2 million
Deutsche mark ... ...    . . .   956      327      -       -        and charges of $0 2 million payable to IDA nn development credits were
French francs ........... .       290      117      76      66       overdue by more than three months. At June 30, 1991, the aggregate
Japanese yen . . . . . . . .. ..   62        *               -       principal amount outstanding on these development credits was $40 million.
Italian lire . . . . . . . . . .... 278    126      79      53       At June30, 1991, the aggregate principal amount outstanding on all
Netherlands guiders               222      117      -       -        development credits to any borrowers, other than those referred to in the
Pounds sterling ...  .......     809    1,030      -       -        following paragraph, with any one development credit overdue by more than
Swedish kronor ........ . .       203       41      39      25       three months was $73 million
United States dollars ... ...     106        2      -                At June 30, 1992, the development credits made to, or guaranteed by,
Other currencies .-                                                  certain member countries wih an aggregate principal boance outstanding of
Total.   ............$3,199          $2,124    $2m3 $192         $1,059 million ($282 million-June 30, 1991), of which $10 milion ($8
indicates amount less than $0.5 million.                                                                              (continued)


﻿230       IDA. Special Fund, and Debt Reduction Facility Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (con#nued)
million-June 30, 1991) was overdue were in nonaccrual status As of  the par vaiue of the members currency or its foreign exchange value has,
such date, overdue charges in respect of these development credits totaled  in the opinion at IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent
$14 million ($11 mlion-June 30, 1991) It these development credits had  within the members territories so ong as and to the extent that such
not been in nonaccrual status, income from development credits for the  currency shall nor nave been initially disbursed or excnanged tor the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1992 would have been higher by $10 milion ($2  currency of another member. The previsions of Article IV Section 2(a) and
million-dune 30, 1991), which is net of charges received from such  (b), have by agreement been extended to over aci   subscriptions and
members during the fiscal year. A summary of borrowers n nonaccrual  contributons of IDA through the third replenishment out are not applicable
status follows:                                                     to those of the fourtn and subsequent replenshments.
In millions                                                         The Executive Directors decided on June30, 1987, that settlements of
maintenance-ef-value obligations, which would result from the resolution of
June 30, 1992                  the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR. would be deferred until
the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements.
Principal
Principal  and charges   Nonaccrual        Ninth Replenishment: O May 9,1990, the Board of Governors of IDA
Borrower                outstanding   overdue       since           adopted a resolution authorizirg the ninth replenishmert of IDA resources.
The ninth replenishment provides IDA with resources to fund credits
Afghanistan .....        $  76        $ 1      June 16, 1992       committed Ocring the period July 1,1990 to June 30, 1993 The amount of
Congo                        75          2      September 1991     the replenishment, including supplementary contributions provided by
Haiti ........             339          3     April 1992          ceran members and resources from Switzerland (see Note F), is equivaleat
Liberia . . . ...         105          6     Aprl 1988           to SDR11,679 million (at the exchange rates determined pursuant to a
Somalia . . . .....        420          8     July 1991           formula agreed by IDA and contributing donors), which is equivalent to
Syrian Arab Republic         44          4      April 19B8          $16,652 million at June 30, 1992 echange rates. The ninth replenishment
Tota..........$059became effective on January 23, 1991.
Total                  $1,059        $24
-             -                           Subscniptions and Contnibutions Not Yet Due: At June 30, 1992,
unrestricted subscriptions and contributions not yet due will become due as
In fiscal year 1992 Nicaragua and Sierra Leone paid off all of their arrears,
and therefore development credits to them came out of nonaccrual status As
a result, income from development credits for the year increased by $6  In millions
million corresponding to income that would have been accrued in previous
fiscal years. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1991. the increase in income  Period                               June 30, t992
from development credits due to development credits to countries coming  July 1 1992 tnrough June 30. 1993              $5,290
out of nonaccrual status was $8 mition.                             July 1, 1993 through June 3D, 1994                    102
July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995                      18
Note E-Member Subscriptions and                                     Thereafter        ...
Contributions                                                         Total.$5,426
Restricted Assets and Subscriptions: For the purposes of its
financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories:  Contnibutions to Special Fund: Member conrbutions to the Specia
(1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contribu-  Fund totaling $807 million at June 30. 1992, are tetlected as Member
tions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or  Subscriptions and Contributions in the Statements of Development Re-
exchanged by iDA in its operations and (2) most Part i members, which  sources. At June 30. 1992, the Special Fund total is reflected net of $345
make payments of 10 percent of their initial subscriptions in freely  million ($323 millon-June 30, 1991), which represents development
convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their intial  credit disbursements that are repayable to and  ncluded in Member
subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their  Subscriptins and Cootributions of IDA
own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members
provide a portion of the r subscriptions and contributions in the same
manner as mentioned in (1) above IDA's Articles of Agreement and    Note F-Contributions by Switzerland
subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part
I1 member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA  On May 29, 1992 Switzerland became a member of IDA. Before that date,
and located outside the territories of the member except by agreementfrancs
anb ctwedn ad    h  trioiso the member ocep byageeen             181 million (historical US-dollar equivaient of $51 m.dlion). As agreed
between the member and IDA.th Swiss Confederation and IDA, these grant contributions have
Maintenance-of-Value: Article N, Section 2(a) and (b), of IDA's     been conneOed into subscription and contributions of Switzeriand and have
Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance-ot-value payments on  been incded in the member subscription and contributions for the fiscal
account of the locat currency portion of the inmtial ssbcripuion whenever  year ended June 30, 1992


﻿Notes to Financial Statements             231
Note G-Transfers from          the International Bank               Debt Reduction Facility: The IBRD authorized a transfer to the Debt
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)                           Reduction Facilty of $100 million from net income tsr the tiscal year ended
June 30, 1989. Of this amount, $18 million has been received, and $82
IDA: The IBRD's Board of Governors approved transfers to IDA totaling  million is reflected as a receivable from the IBRD as of June 30,1992 ($92
$3,241 m1flion from net income of the 18RD for the fiscal years ended  million-June 30. 1991).
June30, 1964 through June 30, 1987. June 30, 1989, and June 30, 1991.  Note H-Income and Expenses
The IBRD's Board of Governors approved a transfer from net income of the
IBRD for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990 to Surplus, and, on May 13  IDA: IDA pays a management tee to the IND representing ifs share of the
1991, approved the subsequent transfer from Surplus of the equivalent of  administrative expenses incurred by the IBRD.
SDR200 million (TW m7Ti  trl lN  nf tho mthl jmnint sq() rM;tirn hq
been disburser 1   .r' I.r  '  i  ,- ..r r.- ,ir,   i r.r           Special Fund: The service and commitment charges payable by
ciasis, and Oth- j.- . n-r*, -. :.r,i - r,, . ni borrowers under Special Fund development credits are paid directly to IDA
availablefor g.r: j iij1.:. I.  -   , , r    :r., -.. I  l        to compensate it for services as administrator of the Special  od. Income
million is reflected as a receivable from the IBRD as of June 30, 1992 ($778  from investments of the Special Fund becomes pert of the resources of the
milhor-mjune 30, 1991.                                              Special Fund.


﻿232   IDA, Special Fund, and Debt Reduction Facility Financial Statements
Report of Independent Accountants
Price Waterhouse    The Hague          Tokyo
(International Firm)  London          Washington
New York
Price Khterhouse
July 30. 1992
President and Board of Governors
International Development Association, the
Special Fund Administered by the International
Development Association, and the Debt Reduction
Facility for IDA-Only Countries Administered by
the International Development Association
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 220 through 231 of this Report present fairly, in
all material respects. in terms of United States dollars. the financial position of the International Development
Association, the Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association, and the Debt
Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries Administered by the International Development Association at
June 30, 1992 and 1991, and the changes in their accumulated surplus and grants and their cash flows for the
years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and with
International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International
Auditing Guidelines, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
F&                    JLwP


﻿233
IBRD/IDA Appendices
1   Governors and Alternates of the World Bank 234
2    Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank and Their Voting Power 237
3    Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank 239
4    Offices of the World Bank 242
5    Development Committee Communiqu6s, Fiscal 1992 248


﻿234     IBRD/JDA Appendices
Governors and Alternates                                                          Appendix I
of the World Bank
June 30, 1992
Member                                         Governor                         Alternate
Afghanistan .... ......... . . .   Hamidullah Ranmi................Monanmad Ehsan
Albania ....... ......... ......Genc Ru ..... ... .............Robert Cek
Algeria  . .... .. .   .  .  .. .. .  ... .  Ahmed Benbitour ........... . . Kacm  BTachem
Angola  .........................  Emmanue  M. Carneio  ............. Sebastim  Bastos  Lavrador
Antigua and Barbcdaa......     . .  Molwyn joseph .L..                  ph Brown
Argentina  ........ ...  ...........  Domingo  Cavalo  ................. Roqe  Fernandez
Australia  .  ..  ..............  .... .  John  Dawkins..ohn             Kerin
Austria  .....  ...  ...  .........  .  Ferdinand Lacina................ Hans Dietmar Scnweisgut
Bahamas, The .  ..  ..........  ...  ..  Paul L. Adderley................ Warren  Rele
Bahraina .   .  ......... ...........  Ibrahim  Abdul Karim  .   .............. Isa Abdula Borshaid
Bangladesh  .......  ...  ...  ... .. M. Salfur Rahman.............. Enam  Ah.e.  Chadhury
Barbadosa . .. ..... ... ...... .L. Erskine Sandiford ...............George Rei
Belgium ... .......... ... . ....  Pnilippe Maystadt..............Aitons Verpaetse
Beize  ...........  ...............  Said  W. M sa  ... .............. . Joseph  D. Vaght
Benin .. ............. ........    Robert Tagnon ................   Rigobert Ladlkpo
Bhutan  ..  ......  ...  ...  ........  Lyonpo  Tsering  ... ............... Karma  Doree
Bolivia .. .............. ... .. .Samuel Doria Medina...........   Raul Boada
Botswana ...... ...... ....... ..  Festus G. Mogae ..............   .G. Stoneham
Brazi .... ... .......... ... ... .Marcifo Marques Moreira............Francisco Gos
Bulgaria...........  .......  ......  ivan  Koton....... ...... .. ....Em i Harse
Burkina Faso  ............  .  .  ....  Frederic A  Korsaga............... Diga  Haby Toure
Burundi  .  ...  ...  ........  ......  G6ard  Niyibigira  . . .... ...... Ga valor Nkeshimara
Cambodia  ........ ...  ...........  (vacant)  ......   ... ... ....... (vacant)
Cameroon  ..  .  .  .. . ......  .....  Tchouta Moussa............. Esther Dang
Canada . ...  ...  ....  ......  ...  .  Donald Mazankowsk ....... ......Marcel Masse
Cape Verde . ... ............. ..Jose Tomas Veiga ................Antbo oiaro Ga Cruz
Central African Repubic  ... . ......  ..  Thierry Bingaba .................. Gregoire Zowaye
Chad ................ ... ... . .. bni Oumar Mahamat Saleh..........assan Adoum Baknt
Chile  ...  ...  ..  ............  ...  Alejandro  Foxtey  ................. Jose  Pao  Arellano
China .. . . .......... . . ....  Wang Bngqan ...... ......   Chi Haiin
Colombia  ........  ...  ...  ...  ...  Rudolf Hommes  . ... .............Francisco  J.  rtega
Comors  ...  ...  ......  .  ...... .. Mohamed Tolhir....... ....... Assoumany Aboude
Congo . . ... .......... ... ....  Dieudonn6 Diabatantou ..............Bernard Thibambelela
Costa Rica .............. ......  Rodolfo Mendez Mata..............Jorge Guard.a .uir6s
Cite d'voie .r.. ............ . ..  Kablan G. Duncan .......... ......No  Coulibay
Cyprus  ................  .........  George Syrim s  .................. Michael Erotokriton
Czechoslovakia  ...  ...... .......  .  Vaclav Klaus  ...... ............. Josef Tosovsky
Denmark .............  .........t. Ufe Eliemann-Jen n ... ...........Hen  Wehik
Djibouti  ... ... .................  Moussa Bouraleh Robh  .............bral   Kassm  Chehem
Dominica  .  ...... ..  .......... . Mary Eugenia Charles  .............. Gioert Willams
Dominican Republic .. ..............  Luis Toral Cordova  .  .  .......... Manuel   Gomez Peterz
Ecuador .... ..... ... ........   Pablo Better ....................Virginia Fierro Renny
Egypt........  ..........  ...  ...  Kamal Ei-Ganzoury  .....Maurice       Makam-Ala
El Salvador .....................  Mirna Lievano de Marques........... ose Roberto Orellana Mia
Equatorial Guinea  ........  ...  .....  Marcelino Nguema Onguene ......... Manuel-Enrique Klng Somo
Estonia'  .....  ...................  Ren  Miter .................. ..Paive  Mane
Ethiopia .... ........ ... ......  Alemayehu Daba.   .      .        rae. Kidane Mariam
Fiji  .............................  Paul Manueli....  ...  ...... ... ... igam oto  Taito
Finland  .....  .  ........  ...  .....  ro  Viinanen  .  ... . . .. . . . . Toi i  Kan aannem
France  ...........  ...  ..........  Jacques de Larosire............... Jean-Claude  Trichet
Gabon  .  .....................  ..  Emmanuel Ondo-Methogo  ......... R  chard  Onejviet
Gambia, The  .  ....................  Bakary  B. Dabo  ...  ............... Aleu  M. Ngum
Germany  ..........  ...... ... ... . Carl-Dieter Spranger  .  . ......... Horst Koehler
Ghana  ....  ..........  ..........  Kwes  Botchwey  ....... .......... Kwes  Bekoe Amissah-Arthur
Greece .  .........            .Stephanos Manes .... ... ... ......George Viachos


﻿Appendix 1   235
Member                                      Governor                      Alternate
Grenada  ..                .    George  gnatius Brizan.............. Lauriston F. Wiso, Jr.
Guatemala                       Richar  Ait..enhead CastL ........... Jan Luis M n A.uilar
Guinea  . ..      ..  .  .  ...  Soriba Kaba..................  Kertalla Yansane
Guinea-Bissau       .Fiinto Barros..................Rui Dia de Sousa
Guyana . ... .                  Carl Greenidge.................Wnston Murray
Haiti.                  .. .      ener Fort.............. ..... Bonivert Claude
Honduras                        Benjamin Vilanueva ....... ........Raro Maduro
Hungary .              . . .   Mihaly Kupa....................mre Tarafas
Iceland  .  .Jon Sigurdsson.................                   Fririk Sousson
India ....... .................Manmohan Singn...............Montek Sngh Ahluwalia
Indonesia .............. .......J.B. Sumarin...................Hasudungan Tampuolon
Iran, Islamic Republc o........ Mohsen Noorbakhs...............Mehdi Navab
Iraq ....... .................lank TM. Al Tukmachi.............Hashim Al Oad
Ireland ..... ..................Bertie Ahern................... San  P. Cromien
Israel .. ....................Janob A. Frenke................Shaom Singer
Ital y . . . . . . .. . . . . . .  Carlo  Azeglio  Ciampi ...............  Mario  Dragni
Jamaicaa    .  ..gh Sial                                    .   Omar Caves
Japan  . .                . .   T. .   . .                      Yasusni Mieo
Jordan  .  .                    Ziad  Fariz ..              .  Ibrahim  Badran
Kenya . . .                     George Saitoi                  W. Koinange
Kiribati ...... .................Taomat lra....................Baraniko Baaro
Korea, Republic of ................Yong-Man Ree.................Soon Cho
Kuwait ... ... .................Nasser Abdulah Al-Rnudhan.........Bader Meshari Al-Humaidni
Lao People's Democratic Republ c...|....savath Sisane..................Soulingong Nhouyvansvong
Lebanon ....................    Al EI-Knali..................Habib Abu-Sakr
Lesotho ......................A.L. Thoahlane ..................T.N. Thokoa
Liberia  . ...    .       .. .  Ameia A. Ward................. Francs Karpeh
Libya  ....             .. .   Monamed El Madni A-Bukhari.........Bashr Al. Khalla
Luxembourg .Jean-Claude Juncker............                   Yves Mersch
Madagascar .Evarste Marson.................Gerard H. Rabevonitra
Malawi      . .                 L.. Chimango ... ...............Ian Boongwe
Malaysia  .       .             Anwar ibranim ..................Mod. Sheri Kassim
Maldives .              .  . .  Fathulla Jameel. .  ... .......... (vacant)
Mali ..Boubacar Bah u                                             ar Ag Teli
Malta  .          .             John Gall                   .   Edgar Wadge
Marshall slandsa.................Ruen Zackhras.Vncent Muler
Mauritania ....          . .   Mohamedou Ould Michel............Monamed Lemine Old Deidah
Mauritius .ean Claude de LEstrac............haram Dev Manra
Mexico .                        Pedro Aspe Amelia...............Jose Angei Gurra
Mongolia  .. .      .   .  .  .  Demchigavyn Molomzhams.......... Dalrain Davaasambuu
Morocco .Mohamed Berrada................Mohammed Gai
Mozambique .Eneas da ConceiAo Comicne.........Adriano Atonso Ma.e.ane
Myanmar    .D.. Abel....................Win Tin
Namibiaa                        Zedekia Ngavrue................. Godrey Gaoseb
Nepal   .        .              Mahesh Aciarya................Sasn Narayan Shah
Netherlands .W Kok.......................P. Pronk
New Zealand                     Graham C. Scott .................Chris N Pinield
Nicaragua .Emilo Pereira...................Slvio de Franco
Niger  ....... .... .           Laoual Chatani................. uhou  M udou Mahamao
Nigeria  ...  .........               A  akar................  (vacant)
Norway  ....... .....  ..  . .  Sgbjoern Johnsen................Grete Faremo
Oman .. ..                      Cais Adul-Munim AI-Zawawi..........Moammed Bin Musa A Youset
Pakistan  ... .                 Sarta  Azi ........... .......... .A  Akhud
Panama  .Guillero Ford B.................Lis H. Moreno, r.
(contiBVued)


﻿236   lBRD/IDA Appendices
Governors and Alternates                                                    Appendix I
of the World Bank                     (continued)
June 30, 1992
Member                                     Governor                      Alternate
Papua New Guinea................Paul Pora                      Gerea Aopi
Paraguay ......................uan J. Cfaz Perez........ ...  (vacant)
Peru ........................Carlos Booha Behr...............Alfreo Jalile Awar
Philippines .. ................. Jesus P. Estanislac................ose Cuisia, Jr.
Poland .... ..............  .   anna Gronewicz-Walr ...........Witold K.zinski
Portugala.    ......   .  .    rge Braga de Me.............Jose M.F. Braz
Qatara.......................Abdu Aziz Khaita Al-Thani...........Abdulan Knalin Al-Atiyyah
Romaniaa.....................George Dagielescu.............   Vladimir Snare
Russian Federation  ...............(vacant)                    (vacant)
Rwanda ... .... ............  Marc Rugenera................Feliden Ntahondi
St. Kitts and Nevis  ................Kennedy A  Simmnnds..............Wlliam  V. Herbert
St. Lucia.....................ohn G.M. Compton...............Bernard Lacorbiniere
St. Vincent and the Grenadines.........James F. Mrche .................Dwignr Venner
Sao Tome and Princ.pe .............Noberto Cnsa Alegre...............Manuel de Nazaren Mendes
Saudi Arabia ...................Monammad AbalOai...............rHamad AI-Sayari
Senegal .......  .............Famara ibrahima Sagna........... Awa Thmongane
Seychelles' ... .................Dani0e de Sr. Jorre...............Bertrand Rassol
Sierra Leone ...................SA. Funna...................Y.T. Sesay
Singaporea....................Rchard Hu TsL Tai...............Ngiam Tong Dow
Solomon Islands.................Christopher C. Abe................Snyder Rini
Somalia .....................    lmi Faran Nur.................Hussein Elabe Fahie
South Afr ca....................C.L. Stals                     Andre LaGrange
Spain .......................Darlos Soaga.................Pedro Perez
Sri Lanka ......... ............D.B. Wijega..................   . Paskaraingam
Sudan ............... ........Abdul Rahim Mahmood am.........Monamed Kteir E Zibeir
Suriname'.................. ...Ewin Sedoc...................Stany Ramsaran
Swaziland.....................Snlnmon M. Diami...............Noreen N. Manalala
Sweden ...... ................Anne Wible...................At Svensson
Switzerand ....................(vacant)......................(vacant)
Syrian Arab Repubi ...............Mohammed Khale Mahayni ..........Adnan A-Saty
Tanzania ...................... Steven A. Kiona.................Peter J. Ngumbulu
Thailand  . ..................... Panas Simasarhien................ Pandit Buyapana
Togo .........   ..    ..... Aim6 Tchaboure Gogue .............Kwassi Kiurse
Tonga                           James Cecil Cocker...............Selwyn Percy Jones
TUnidad and Tobago ...............Wendei Mtfey....   .. Ainsworth Harewood
Tunisia ........... ...........Mstapha Kami Nabi..............Abdeilat Saddem
Turkey  .......... ..   . ...lnk...................            Kema  Kaa
Uganda.........   .............Jash Mayan,a Niagl............James Kahoza
United Arab Emirates..............Hamdan b.n Rashd A) Maklm........Anmed Humaid Ai-Tayer
JUnted Kingdom ..................Roo Leign-Pemberton.............Timohy Lankester
Un ted Sates...................Ni     F. Brady................Robert B. Zoilick
Uruguaya.....................Ignacio de Posadas................Carlos A. Cat
Vanuatu ......................WTie Jimmy...................Antoine Pin
Venezuelaa.....................Ricardo Hausmann................Pedro Rosas Bravo
Viet Nam ..... ................Ca    Kiem...................Le Van Chau
Western Samoa ..................Tuilaepa S. Maielegaoi.............Epa Ti
Yemen, Repubiic of................Farag Bin Ghanem................Anwar l Al-Harazi
Yugoslavia .....................Savoiub Stanic.................Nikoia elic
Zaire  .........  ..  .. .   ...ln     amba .................  Mbnga Magal  Engwanda
Zambia  ........                       G, Kasonde..............James Mtnga
Zimbabwe                        B.T.G. Chizer ....................K.. Moyana
a. Member an the [R oJnDy


﻿Appendix 2        237
Executive Directors and Alternates                                                                  Appendix 2
of the World Bank and
Their Voting Power
June 30, 1992
IBRD            IDA
Total   % oft  Total   % of
Executive Director                      Altermate                  Casting votes of         votes   total  votes    total
Appointed
E. Patrick Coady.........Mark M. Colins, Jr.              nited States.............226,178 18.40 1,339,194        16.43
Yasuyuki Kawahara.....         Kiyoshi Kodera.........Japan..................94,020                 7.65  823,431  10.10
Fritz Fischer .............Harald Rehn..........Germany................                    72,649   5.91  567,447   6.96
Jean-Pierre Landau.........Philippe do Fontaine Vive      France.................          69,647   5.66  328,072   4.03
David Peretz ............Robert Granam-Harrison ..        Unted Kingdom............89,647           5.66  445,093   5.46
Elected
Bernard Sny ............Water Ril...........Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovaka,
(Belgium)                      (Austria)               Hungary, Luxembourg, Turkey       61,785  5.03  338,074   4.15
Rosario Bonavogiia.........Fernano S. Carneiro.           Greece, Italy, Malta,a Potand,
(Italy)                        (Portugal)..........Portugal'................59,475               4.84  463,476   5.69
Frank Potter .......... ...Hubert Dean..........Antigua and Barb                The
(Canada)                       (Tne Bahamas)           Bahamas,' Barbadn', Belize,
Canada, Domnca, Grenada,
Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica,'
St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines .  56,660  4.61  347,024  4.26
J.S. Baijal ..A. Syed...........Bangades, Bhutan, India,
(India)                        (Bangladesh)            Sri Lanka ...... .. ... .....53,332       4.34  351.910  4.32
Moises Naim............Gabrel Castellanos......Costa Rica, El Saivador,
(Venezuela)                    (Guatemala)             Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico,
Nicaragua, Panama, Spain,
Venezuetaa ..... _.......... 50,597       4 12  233,903   2.87
Eveline Herfkens ..........Boris Skapin.          ....   Bulgara,' Cyprus, Israel,
(Netherlands)                  (Yugoslavia)            Netherlands Romania,'
Yugoslavia............ ...       50,048   4.07  265,669   3.26
Einar Magnussenb.........Jorunn MaehlLmc.......Denmark, Fin.ano, Icetand,
(Norway)                       (Norway)                Norway, Sweden......45,523                370   395,764   4.86
Ernest Leung ............Paulo C. Ximenes-Ferreira        Brazil, Coiombia, Doni
(Pnilippines)                   (Brazil)                Republic, Ecuador. Haiti,
Philippines, SurnaPe
Trinidad and Tobago......... 42,374       3.45  241,124   2.96
John H. Cosgrove .........A. John Wison........Australia, Kiribati, Korea
(Australia)                    (New Zealand)           (Repubic of), New Zealand
Papua New Guinea, Solomon
lsands. Vanuatu, Western Samoa.  40,850  3.32  209,523   2.57
Wang Llansheng ..........Jin Liqun............China..................35,221                         2.86  165,488   2.03
(China)                        (China)
Aris Othman............Aung Pe............Fji, Indonesia, Lao Peope's
(Malaysia)                     (Myanmar)               Democratic Republc, Malaysia,
Myanmar, Nepal, Singapore,'
Tnaiiand, Tango, Viet Nam  . ..   33,998  2.77  235,113  2.89
Mohamed Benhocine ......        aem Monamed Omeish .      Afghanistan Algeria. Gana,
(Algeria)                      (Libya)                 Iran (Isami Republic of),
Libya, Morocco, Tunisia ....... 32,741    2.66  114,457  1.40
Fawzi Hamad AJ-Sutan.         Mohamed W. Hosny ...      Bahrain,' Egypt (Arab Repubi
(Kuwait)                       (Ara Repubic of Egypt) f). Jordan, Kuwait, Le.ano.,
Madies, Oman, Pakistan,
Qatar,' Syrian Arab Republic,
Unite( Arab Emirates, Yemen
(Republc of) ....... ... ...    31,587   2.57  282,369  3.46
(continued)


﻿238      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Executive Directors and Alternates                                                                  Appendix 2
of the World Bank and
Their Voting Power                                  (condoue
June 30, 1992
IBRD            IDA
Total   % of   Total   % of
Executive director                      Alternate                  Casting votes of         votes   total  votes    tota
Jabez A. Langley ..........0.    . K. Matambo , .......   Angola, Botswana, Burundi,
(The Gambia)                   (Botswana)              Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea,
Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi,
Mozambique, Namibia,a Nigeria,
Seycheiles Sierra Leone, Sudan,
Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda,
Zambia, Zimbabwe ...........     30,083  2.45   329,710  4.05
Ibrahim A. AI-Assaf ........ Ahmed M. AI-Ghannam     ...  Saudi Arabia .............       25,390   2.07  278,621   3.42
(Saudi Arabia)                 (Saudi Arabia)
F1ix Alberto Camarasa ......Nicol9s Flao.......... Argentina, Bolivia, Chile,
(Argentina)                    (Chile)                 Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay' ......  24,745   2.01  143,701  1.76
Jean-Pierre Le Bouder ..... . Ali Bouthane ........... Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
(Central African               (Comoros)               Cape Verde, Central African
Republic)                                             Republic, Chad, Comoros,
Congo, Cdte dIvoire, Djibouti.
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon,
Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar, Mai,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger,
Rwanda, Sao Tom and Principe,
Senegal, Somalia. Togo, Zaire  .  22,947  1.87  250,083  3.07
In addition to the executive directors and alternates shown in the foregoing list, the following also served after June 30, 1991.
Executive director       End of period of service                        Alternate director       End of period of service
Jacques de Groote , ....... ... August 31, 1991                          Mark T. Cox, IV ... .. ..... . November 30, 1991
(Belgium)                                                                (United States)
Jonas  H. Haralz  ...............  July  31, 1991                        Clarence  Ellis.....  .........  October 31, 1991
(Iceland)                                                                (Guyana)
Masaki Shiratori  .............. June  28, 1992
(Japan)
Vibul Aunsnunta  ........... , October 31, 1991
(Thailand)
NoiE: Camboda (464 votes mBRD and 7,826 votes n IDA), Iraq 13,058 votes in IBRD and 9.407 votes in IDA) and South Afica (13,712 votes in I6RD and
24,864 votes in IDA) did not participate in the 1990 regular election of executive directors. Albania (11080 votes in IBRD and 19,625 votes in IDA). Estonia
(768 votes n 3RD), Marshad lsiands (513 votes in IBRD), Mongolia (716 votes in IBRD and 546 votes in IDA), Russian Federation (25,390 votes in IBRD
and 24,901 votes in IDA). and Switzerland (26,856 votes in IBRD and 22,324 votes in IDA) became members after that election
a Member o the .BRD only
b To be succeeded by Jorunn Maehrum (Norway) as of August 1, 1992.
c. To be succeeded by Helga Jonsdottir (Iceland) as of August 1, 1992


﻿Appendix 3      239
Officers and Department Directors                                                       Appendix 3
of the World Bank
June 30, 1992
President  ......... .............. ............ .....             ...       .    Lew is  T.  Preston
Vice  President and  Specia  Adviser  .  .........................Willi Wapennans
Managing  Director  ............................ .....Attila                           Karaosmanoglu
M anaging  Director  .............................  .....  ...Sven                     Sandstrom
M anaging  Director  . ..........................  .  ........      . ..... ....  Ernest  Stern
Vice  President and  Controller  .......S                                              ee............ . . ....   ....
Vice President, Financial Policy and Risk Management .. . ohannes F Linn
Vice  President and  Treasurer         ....................
Vice President, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office  ..S. Shahid Husain
Vice President, Africa Regional Office .. . .Edward V. K. Jaycox
Vice President, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office  .   . . .Gautam S. Kaj
Vice President, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office .......              Ca Koch-Weser
Vice President, Europe and Central Asia Regional Office  .........Witried                P. Thawitz
Vice  President, South  Asia  Regional Office  ............................D. Joseph       Wood
Vice President, Cofinancing and  Financial Advisory Services. ................     Koji Kashwaya
Vice President, Development Economics and Chief Economist .............. .         Lawrence H. Summers
Vice  President, Sector and  Operations  Policy  ...............  .......         Visvanathan ajagopalan
Operations Evaluation
Director-General .................................................Yves Rovani
Legal
Vice  President and  General  Counsel  ..  ........... ..... ....................Ibrahim  F.  . S i
Secretary's
Vice President and Secretary                                                      Timothy T. Thahane
Personnel and Administration
Vice President....................................................                Bilsel Aisoah
Director, Resource Mobidization Department         .....                 ...      Basil G. Kavalsky
Director, Tokyo  Ottice  .. . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .   . . . .   . . . . Sninichiro  Kawamata
DWrector, Treasury Operations and DepWny Treasurer                                (vacant)
Director, Financial Operations  Department .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kenneth  G. Lay
Director. Risk Management and Financial Policy Department . ..............        Mieko Nishimizu
Director, Cash  Management Department  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Waiter Peyerl
Director, Loan Department                                                         V. S. Raghavan
Director, Investment Department . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . ..   Jean-FranQois  Rischard
Director, Accounting  Departmenr  ...  . . . . . . . ..  . . .  . . . .  ...      Michael E. Ruddy
DirecSor, Pension Depanment                                                       Nestor V. Santiago
Auditor-General, Internal Auditing  Department  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Allan  0. Legg
Director, Cotinancing and Financiai Advisory Services Department............ ........  Inder Sud
Africa Regional Office
Director, South Central and Indian Ocean Department: Angola, Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti,
Madagascar, Mauritius, Rwanda, Seychelles, Zaire...............................  Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Director, Eastern Africa Department: Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda ..........Francis X. Coiaco
Director, Southern Africa Department: Botswana, Lesotno, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South
Africa, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimoabwe .. ..................................... Stephen M. Denning
Director, Occidental and Central Africa Department: Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Congo, C6te dilvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Guinea, Togo....................... Michael J. Gillette'
Director, Western Africa Department: Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, S o Tom6 and
Pincipe, Sierra Leone..............................................Edwin R. Lim
Director, SaheJan Department: Burklna Faso, Cape Verde, Chad, The Gambia, Mai, Mauritania,
Niger, Senegal..........    ........................................Katherne Marshall
Director, Technical Department.............................................Ismal Serageldin
(Continued)


﻿240     IBRD/IDA Appendices
Officers and Department Directors                                                             Appendix 3
of the World Bank                              (conhnu,d)
June 30, 1992
Asia Technical Department
Director  ....                                                                      Daniel Ritchie
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Director, Country Department: China, Mongolia .......... ..  ....................Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Department: Fiji, Indonesia, Kiribati, Maldives, Papua New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu. Western Samoa .........  ........................Marianne Haug
Director, Country Department: Cambodia, Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Malaysia, Mekong Committee, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, Viet Nam ............... Callisto E. Madavo
South Asia Regional Office
Director, Country  Department: Afghanistan, Pakistan, Sri Lanka  .................. .......  Paul Isenman
Director. Country Department: Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal .   ................... ....... Jochen Kraske
Director, Country Department: lndia .....  ................................Heinz Vergin
Europe and Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa Regions Technical
Department
Director     . .  .   ..                                                            Harinder S. Kohi
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Director, Country Department: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus. Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrghyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russian Federation, Taikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan ............................. ........................... Russell J. Cheetham
Director, Country Department: Albania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Yugoslavia .......... Kemal Dervis
Director, Country Department: Bulgaria, Cyprus, Portugal, Romania, Turkey ...............  Michael H. Wiehen
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Director, Country Department: Algeria, Libya, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia .................. Pieter P. Bottelier
Director, Country Department: Bahrain, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic 01), Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Emirates, Republic of
Yemen ..... ................................................. ....Ram Kumar Chopra
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Director, Country Department: Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Caribbean Development Bank,
Colombia, Dominican Republic, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, OECS member states, Suriname,
Trinidad and Tobago    ............................................Yoshiaki Abe
Director, Country Department: Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay ...............  Ping-Cheung Loh
Director, Country Department: Brazil, Peru, Venezuela  ...........................Armeane M. Choksi
Director, Country Department: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua.
Panama        ................................................... Rainer B. Steckhan
Director, Technical Department  ........................................Edilberto L. Segura
D irector,  Geneva  Office  ............................................ . ........    n  Banet
Director, Country  Economics  Department  .........................                 Nancy  Birdsall
Director, Industry  and  Energy  Department  ............................ ...Anthony        A. Churchill
Director, Environment Department  ........................ ...........  ........      ohamed  T  E-Ashry
Director, Economic  Development Institute  .......... .  . ....   .          .     Amnon  Golan
Director, Developm ent  Policy  Group  ................................... .......... nzo  Grilli
Director, Population and Human Resources Department ...............     .          Ann 0. Hamilton
Director, European  Office ... .................................       ..........   Olivier  Laourcadeb
Director. Agriculture and Rural Development Department ............  ..  .          Michel J. Petit
Director, Infrastructure and Urban Development Department ... ..................... Louis Y. Pouliquen
Director, International Economics Department ......................... ........ D. C. Rao
Executive Secretary, Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research..............Alexander von der Osten-Sacken
Director, Central Operations Department ....................................... Hans Wyss
Director, Sector and Operations Policy .........................................(vacant)
Administrator, Research Administration..................... .................      Gregory Ingram
Operations Evaluation
Director, Operations Evaluation Department . ....................Hans-Eberhard Kdpp


﻿Appendix 3      241
Corporate Planning and Budgeting
Director, Planning  and  Budgeting  Department  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...........  ...........  Richard  B. Lynn
Legal
Deputy  General Counsei, Lega.  Department  ...  ...  ...  ...  .........  ...  ...  ...  ..  David  M. Goldberg
Assistant  General Counsel,  Legal Department  .......................................  Eva  L.  M eigher
Assistant General Counsel. Legal Department  .  ...  ...  ...  ...  .................  ...  Andres  Rigo
Assistant General Counsel, Legal Department  ................ ....... . .....   Stephen  A. Silard
Personnel and Administration
Director, Personne  Management Department  .... .   .........................  Alberto  de  Cap1ani
Director. Information, Technology, and  Facilities  Department  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  Hywel M. Davies
Director, General Services  Department  ........... . ......................... . .  Harold  W . M essenger
Director, Health  Services  Department  .  ....  . ..  . ..  . ..  . ..  . ..  . ..  . ..  . ....  .  .  Bernhard  H. Lese
Director, Personnel Services and  Compensation  Department .  ...  ..........  ............  Everardo  C. Wessels
Head, Organization  Planning  Staff  ...............  ...  ...  ...  ...................  Ian  A. Scott
Director,  External Affairs  Department  ........................... .  ............  Alexander  Shakow
Publisher  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. ..  . .. .. .. .  Jam es  K.   eather
a To be succeeded by Olivier Lafourcade on October 1 1992
b. Until October 1, 1992. Successor to be named.


﻿242     IBRD/iDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank                                                               Appendix 4
June 30, 1992
Headquarters: 1818 H Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
New York Office                       Wadi D. Haddad                     The World Bank Mission to the
Special Representative to the        United Nations/New York Office
United Nations                  809 United Nations Plaza (9th Floor)
New York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.
European Office                       Olivier Lafourcade                 The World Bank
Director                           66, avenue d'ldna
75116 Pans, France
Geneva Office                         Jean Baneth                        The World Bank
Director                           ITC  Building
54, rue de Montbrillant
Geneva, Switzerland
(mailing address: P.O. Box 104,
1211 Geneva 20 CIC. Switzerland)
London Office                         Janet C. M. Hickman                World Bank
Resident Administrat.ve            New Zealand House
Officer                            15th Floor
Haymarket
London, SW1 Y4TE, England
Tokyo Office                           Shinichiro Kawamata               The World Bank
Director                           Kokusa Bulding (Room 916)
1-1. Maruncuchi 3-chome
Chiyoda-ku. Tokyo 100, Japan
Regional Mission                      F. Stephen O'Brien                 The World Bank
in Eastern Africa                   Chief, Resident Mission            View Park Towers
Monrovia Street
Nairobi, Kenya
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30577)
Regional Mission                      Robert A Calderisi                 The World Bank
in Western Africa                   Chief. Resident Mission            Corner of Booker Washington and
Jacques AKA Streets
Cocody, Abidjan 01
C61e dlvoire
(mailing address. B.P. 1850)
Regional Mission                      Philippe E. Annez                  The World Bank
in Thailand                            Chief, Resident Mission         Udom Vidhya Building (5th Floor)
956 Rama IV Road, Sala Daeng
Bangkok 10500, Thailand
Angola                                 Florent Agueh                     Edificio BPA
Resident Representative            Luanda, Angola
(mailing address: C.P. 1331)
Argentina                              Myrna L. Alexander                Banco Mundial
Resident Representative            Bartolome Mitre 797-Piso 8
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Bangladesh                            Christopher Willoughby             The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission            3A Paribagh
Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
(mailing address: G.P.0 97)
Benin                                 Eduardo Locatelli                  The World Bank
Resident Representative            Zone Residentielle de la Radio
Cotonou, Benin
(mailing address: B.P. 03-2112)


﻿Appendix 4       243
Bolivia                              Constance A. Bernard             Banco Mundal
Resident Representative          Edificio BISA, Piso 9
16 de Julio 1628
La Paz, Boivia
(mailing address Casilla 8692)
Brazil                               George P. Papadopoulos           Banco Munda
Resident Representative          Setor Comercial Sul, Quadra 1, Bloco H
Edificio Morro Vermelho-8 Andar
Brasiiia, DF 70.399-900, Brazil
Brazil                               George P. Papadopoulos           Banco Mundal
Representative                   c/o Furnas Centrals El6tricas, S.A.
Rua Visconde de Piraja
No. 351, Sala 1206, lpanema
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 22410-003 Brazil
Brazil                               Christoph Dewaid                 Banco Mundia, S/127
Head of Field Office             Editicio SUDENE
Cidade Universitaria
50.138 Recife PE. Brazil
Bulgaria                             John Wilton                      The Word Bank
Resident Representative          lNERPRED Word Trade Center Sofia
#36 Dnagam Tsankcv Boulevard
Sofia, Bulgaria
Burkina Faso                         Albert Osei                      The World Bank
Resident Representative          Immeuble BICIA (3eme 6tage)
Ouagadoouou. Burkina Faso
(lmailing address: B.P. 622)
Burundi                              Maurice J. Gervaisa              The World Bank
Resident Representative          Avenue du 18 septembre
Bujumbura, Burundi
(mailing address: B.P. 2637)
Cameroon                             Joseph K. Ingram                 The World Bank
Resident Representative          Immeuble Kennedy
Avenue Kennedy
Yaounde, Cameroon
(mailing address: B.P. li28)
Central African Republic             Lucien E. Moreau                 Banque Mondiale
Resident Representative          Rue des missions
Bangui, C.A.R.
(mailing address B.P. 819)
Chad                                 Noel M. Carrere                  The World Bank
Resident Representative          B.P. 146
N'djamena, Chad
China                                Attila Sonmez                    The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission          No. 2 Fu Cheng Lu
Diacyutal, State Guest House
Buliding No. 5
Beijing 100830, China
(mailing address: P.O. Box 802)
(continued)


﻿244     IBRD/IDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank                                       (continued)                Appendix 4
June 30, 1992
Colombia                                Kristin Hallberg                    Banco Mundia
Resident Representative             Carrera 10, No. 86-21, Piso 3
Apartado Adreo 10229
Bogota, D.E., Colombia
(mailing address: Apartado A6reo
10229)
Congo                                   Manga Kuoh-Moukouri                 Banque Mondiale
Resident Representative            Immeuble Arc (5bme etage)
Avenue Amilcar Cabral
Brazzaville, Congo
(mailing address: B.P. 14536)
Egypt                                   Sven Burmester                      The World Bank
Resident Representative             World Trade Center
1191 Corniche El-Ni
15th Floor
Ca ro, Egypt
Ethiopia                                Abhay Deshpande                     The World Bank
Resident Representative             LB.T.E. New Telecommunications
Bulding (1st Floor)
Churchill Road
Addis Ababa, Ethnopia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 5515)
Ghana                                   Ravi Kanbur                         The World Bank
Resident Reoresentative             69 Eighth Avenue Extension
Northridge Residential Area
Accra, Ghana
(mailing address: P.O. Box M27)
Guinea                                  Michael j. Wilson                   Banque Mondiale
Resident Representative            Immeuble de I'Archevbche
Face Baie des Anges
Conakry, Guinea
(mailing address: B.P. 1420)
Guinea-Bissau                           Yves J. Tencalla                    Banco Mundial
Resident Representative             Apartado 78
1041, Guinea-Bissau
India                                   Oktay Yenal                         The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission             55 Lodi Estate
New Delhi 110003, India
(mailing address: P.O. Box 416.
New Delhi 11001)
Indonesia                               Nicholas C. Hope                    The World Bank
Director, Resident Staft            Jalan Rasuna Said, Kay. B-10
(Suite 301)
Kuningan, Jakarta 12940,
Indonesia
(mailing address P 0. Box 324/JKT)
Madagascar                              Jose A. Brontmanb                   Banque Mondiale
Resident Representative             1, rue Patrice Lumumba
Antananarivo 101, Madagascar
(maling address: B.P. 4140)


﻿Appendix 4       245
Malawi                                 Ani Zulfiqar                       The World Bank
Resident Representative            Development House
Capita City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30557)
Mali                                    Monique P. GarrAye                The World Bank
Resident Representative            Immeuble SOGEFIH
Quartier du Fleuve
Avenue Moussa Travele
Bamako, Mail
(mailing address: B.P. 1864)
Mauritania                             Claude R. Delapierre               The World Bank
Resident Representative            Vila No. 30, lot A
Quartier Socolim
Nouakchott, Mauritania
(mailing address: B.P. 667)
Mexico                                 Eugene D. McCarthy                 Banco Mundial
Resident Representative            Insurgentes Sur 1971
Nivel Paseo, Locales 71 y 72
Col. Guadalupe Inn
01020 Mfxico, D,F. M6xico
Mozambique                             Ni s 0. Tcheyan                    The World Bank
Resident Representative            Avenue Kenneth Kaunda, 1224
Maputo, Mozambique
(mailing address. C.P, 4053)
Nepal                                  Nigel Roberts                      The World Bank
Resident Representative            Jyoti Bhawan, Kantipath
Kathmandu, Nepal
(mailing address: P.O. Box 798)
Nicaragua                              Ulrich Lachler                     The World Bank
Resident Representative            Edificio Malaga, Modulos A-1 y A-22
Plaza Espana
Managua, Nicaragua
Niger                                  Whitney P. Fosterd                 Banque Mondiale
Resident Representative            Rue des Dailols
Niamey, Niger
(mailing address: B.P. 12402)
Nigeria                                Gerald Flood                       The World Bank
Resident Representative            1st Floor
Plot PC-10
Engineering Close, otf Jdowu Taylor
Street
Victor a island
Lagos, Nigeria
(mailing address: P.O. Box 127)
Pakistan                               Philippe Nouvel                    The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission            20 A
Shahrah-e-Jamnhuriat, Ramna 5, G-5/1
Islamabad, Pakistan
(mailing address: P.0 Box 1025)
(continued)


﻿246     IBRD/IDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank                                       (continued)                Appendix 4
June 30, 1992
Philippines                             Thomas W. Allen                     The World Bank
Resident Representative             Central Bank of the Philippines
MLti-Storey Building, Room 200
Roxas Boulevard
Man ila, Philippines
Poland                                  Jan M Hume                          The World Bank
Resident Representat:ve            INTRACO I Building
17th Floor
2 Stawki Street
00-193 Warsaw, Poland
Romana                                 Arntraud Hartman                    The World Bank
Resident Representative             Boulevard Dacia
35 (83) Sector 1
Bucharest, Romania
(Corner House, Boulevard Dacia and
Boulevard Aure! Viaico)
Russia                                  Everardus S-outjesdlk              The World Bank
Resdent Rep'esentat!ve             Moscow Aerostar Hotel
37 Leningsgradsky Prospekt
Korpus 9
125167. Moscow, Russia
Rwanda                                  Emmanuel Akpae                      The World Bank
Resident Representative             Boulevard de la Revolution
SORAS Building
Kigali, Rwanda
(mailing address: B.P. 609)
Saudi Arabia                            John R. Bowin                       The World Bank
Director                            Riyadh. Saudi Arabia 11432
(maIng address. P.O. Box 5900)
Senega                                  Elkyn ChapaTro                      The World Bank
Resident Representative            Immeuble S.D.I.H.
3 Place de lindpendance
Dakar, Senegal
(maling address. B.P. 3296)
Srn Lanka                               J. Roberto B. Bentlefodt            The World Bank
Res,dent Representative             Development Finance Corporation of
Ceylon
(DFCC) Building
1st Floor
73/5 Galle Road
Colombo 3, Srn Lanka
(mailing address P.O. Box 1761)
Sudan                                   Resident Representative             The World Bank
(Vacant)                            AAAID Building
Block 9
East Khartoum, Sudan
(mailing address. P.O. Box 2211)
Tanzania                                Motoo Konishi                       The World Bank
Resident Representative             N.I.C. Building  (7th  Floor, B)
Dar es Sa,aam, Tanzania
(mailing address. P.O. Box 2054)


﻿Appendix 4       247
Togo                                    Jacques Daniel                       The World Bank
Resident Representative             169, boulevard du 13 janvier
Immeuble BTCI (8Rme 6tage) Lom,
Togo
(mailing address: B.P. 3915)
Turkey                                   Luis de Azcarate                    The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission             Ataturk Bulvari, No. 211
Gama-Guris Building Kat 6
06683 Kavaklidere,
Ankara, Turkey
Uganda                                  Seung Hong Choi                      The World Bank
Resident Representative             P.O. Box 4463
Kampala, Uganda
Venezuela                               Jorge C. Barrientos                  Banco Mundial
Resident Representative             Edificlo Parque Cristal
Torre Oeste, Piso 15
Oficina 15-05
Avenida Francisco de Miranda
Los Palos Grandes
Caracas, Venezuela
Zaire                                   William J. Grau                      The World Bank
Resident Representative              immeuble de la Communaut6 Hellinique
(acting)                             Boulevard du 30 juin
Kinshasa 1, Zaire
(mailing address: P.O. Box 14816)
Zambia                                  John A. Innes                        The World Bank
Resident Representative             CMAZ Building
Ben Bella Road
Lusaka, Zambia 10101
(mailing address: P.O. Box 35410)
Zimbabwe                                Christiaan J. Poortman               The World Bank
Resident Representative             CABS Centre (11th Floor)
Jason Moyo Avenue
Harare, Zimbabwe
(mailing address: P.O. Box 2960)
a. To be succeeded by Jacqueline Damon as of September 1, 1992.
b. To be succeeded by Michel Palein as of September 1, 1992
c. To be succeeded by Linda McGinnis as of October 5, 1992.
d To be succeeded by Abdul Hall as of September 1, 1992.
e. To be succeeded by Julio Gamba as of September 1, 1992.


﻿248   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Development Committee                                                  Appendix 5
Communiques, Fiscal 1992
Forty-second meeting, Bangkok,               legal, and regulatory framework, supported by
October 14, 1991                            effective and accountable political and admin-
1. The committee held its forty-second    istrative systems, can help create a stable
meeting in Bangkok on October 14, 1991, un-  market environment. They noted that fiscal
der the chairmanship of Alejandro Foxley,   reform would release resources to help finance
Minister of Finance of Chile. It was pleased to  poverty-reduction programs and essential in-
welcome for the first time the new president of  vestment in social sectors. They also agreec
the World Bank. Lewis T. Preston.           that the reduction in global and in many re-
2. The committee concentrated its discus-  gional tensions should help developing coun-
sion on two related issues: Development Pri-  tries to reduce excessive and unproductive
orities for the 1990s and the Implications for  arms expenditures. They recognized that ad-
the World Bank Group; and Human Resource    justment efforts could present short-term prob-
Development.                                lems for developing countries, especially for
3. The committee agreed that the priority  the poorest and most heavily indebted among
development objectives for the nineties are the  them, and could require the establishment of
reduction of poverty and the achievement of  appropriate safety nets. The committee called
sustainable growth; actions to protect the envi-  on the Bank and the Fund to continue to
ronment are essential to both objectives. It  consider how best they could support the re-
welcomed the broad consensus among mem-     form efforts of adjusting countries.
bers and institutions on these objectives,    5. Members acknowledged that economic
which have been clearly set out in recent   reform in the developing countries should be
World Development Reports. The committee    complemented by improvements in the trade,
believes that the main task for the 1990s is now  energy, industrial, and agricultural policies of
the implementation of these objectives. The  the industrial countries: they noted that wider
committee recognized that resource flows are  access to world markets is essential for the
essential for this purpose and requested the  developing countries, as well as benefiting
Bank in collaboration with the Fund to prepare  producers and consumers in industrial coun-
a comprehensive study of the outlook for such  tries. They also noted that trade distortions are
flows including the role of the World Bank   more damaging to the developing countries
Group, the implementation of sound economic  than ten years ago and seriously weaken the
policies and investment reforms. It agreed that  benefit of current levels of official develop-
attainment of the objectives will depend on  ment assistance (ODA). They were therefore
several mutually supporting factors: the com-  disturbed at the continued delay in concluding
plementary roles of the state and the private  the Uruguay Round. They welcomed the read-
sector; the strength of developing country hu-  mess of the G-7 London Summit leaders to
man resources and institutions; the creation of  intervene with one another if differences can
a market friendly environment for develop-  only be resolved at the highest level. Members
ment; the economic policies pursued by both  undertook to press upon their ministerial col-
developing and industrial countries; and the  leagues in their own capitals the need for a
availability of domestic resources.          comprehensive agreement which would reduce
4. Members recognized that many develop-  trade barriers significantly and woutd inctude
ing countries have made good progress in    rules to create a stable and predictable trading
reforming their economies. Despite this prog-  environment and to provide incentives for en-
ress, and especially if the present resource  hanced investment and greater opportunities
constraints continue, there will be great pres-  for developing-country exporters. They em-
sure upon these governments to pursue further
economic reforms in order to mobilize domes-  Lewis T. Preston. president ot the World Bank, Michel
tic resources, attract foreign direct investment,  Cardessus. managing director of the International Mone-
and increase the efficiency of capital use.  tary Fund. Rudolt Hommes, Minister of Finance and
Members believed that reforms which reflect   Public Credit of Colombia (chairman of the Group of
free and undistorted pricing, open trade poli-  Twenty-Four) and Peter Mountfield, executive secretarv
of the Development Committee. parttcipated in the meet-
cies, transparent and nondiscriminatory in-  ing. Observers from Switzerland and seventeen interna-
vestment policies and an appropriate financial,  tional and regional organizations also attended.


﻿Appendix 5   249
phasized the urgent need for agreement at the  committee recognized the need to continue
political level well before the end of 1991.  financial support, with the help of advice from
6. Members also noted that the reduction in  the Bank and the Fund, for those heavily
international tension could allow industrial  indebted countries which are pursuing appro-
countries, under appropriate circumstances, to  priate growth-oriented policies and continue to
release resources for additional ODA while  avoid debt rescheduling even in difficult con-
reducing budgetary deficits. In any case, the  ditions.
committee hoped that industrial countries    9. The committee called on the Bank and
could provide adequate support for strong ad-  Fund to prepare jointly a further progress
justment efforts by the countries of Eastern  report on the implementation of the debt strat-
and Central Europe without diverting ODA   egy, covering both official and commercial
from traditional aid recipients. The committee  bank creditors, for its next meeting, including
also urged that every effort should be made to  taking account of developments in the area of
increase ODA flows where needed. In this   banking supervision.
connection, the committee invited donor coun-  10. In considering the implications of their
tries, particularly those with assistance levels  agreed priorities for the operations of the
below the 0.7 percent ODA/GNP target, to   World Bank Group, the committee welcomed
make further efforts to increase the transfer of  the decision of the IFC executive board to
resources to developing countries.         recommend a $1 billion capital increase, which
7. Members recognized that the creditor na-  it urged the governors to approve before the
tions could help to remove some of the con-  end of 1991. Members noted the IFC's inten-
straints on the developing world. The commit-  tions to strengthen its development contribu-
tee welcomed the agreement at the recent G-7  tion and enhance its catalytic role in develop-
London Summit meeting on the need for addi-  ing countries. The committee urged the IFC to
tional relief for the poorest most indebted  use its resources so as to maximize participa-
countries, on a case-by-case basis, going well  tion by the private sector. It welcomed the
beyond the relief already granted under Tor-  steps already under way to strengthen collab-
onto terms. They called on the Paris Club to  oration between the IFC and the rest of the
continue its discussion on how best to imple-  Bank Group.
ment promptly these additional debt-relief   11. The committee agreed on the impor-
measures.                                  tance of the private sector as one of the World
8. Members also welcomed the recent steps  Bank Group's priorities. It confirmed the need
taken by several major debtors to regularize  for reinforced implementation of the compre-
their relations with the commercial banks, and  hensive World Bank Group Plan of Action for
urged them to pursue market-based debt and  Private Sector Development, adopted in 1989,
debt-service reduction which will help them  placing this within the context of the Bank's
return to normal debtor-creditor relations.  established objectives, which it serves to
They noted that, while significant achieve-  strengthen. The committee noted that in pur-
ments have been made under the international  suing this policy the Bank would have due
debt strategy for the commercial banks, prog-  regard to the complementarity between public
ress in implementation remained slow in some  and private sectors analyzed in World Devel-
more complex cases and required continued  opment Report 1991. Members considered that
efforts by all parties. Further progress would  as result of this policy, the Group was now in a
ease the resource constraints of a number of  strong position to support the emerging market
middle-income debtor countries. Members    orientation of its member countries. The com-
hoped more countries could soon benefit from  mittee agreed to keep all these arrangements
the program, and so regain access to the inter-  under review starting at their Spring 1993
national capital markets. They noted, how-  meeting and asked for a progress report from
ever, that maintenance of creditworthiness is  the Bank at that time.
generally preferable to debt reduction, but for  12. The Committee noted that there will be a
some countries, debt reduction is an important  continued need for adequate highly conces-
element in the restoration of creditworthiness  sional flows to help the low-income countries.
as recognized under the debt strategy. The  Members recognized that the resources pro-


﻿250   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Development Committee                                               Appendix 5
Communiques, Fiscal 1992 (continued)
vided by the ninth replenishment of IDA would  continue to be driven by country priorities and
run out in mid 1993. The committee therefore  by prospects of loan effectiveness, so that
noted with satisfaction that informal talks have  precise quantitative targets for the institution
already begun on the tenth replenishment and  as a whole would be inappropriate.
asked the Bank to provide a progress report at  15. Members noted that over the past dec-
its next meeting on the status of the IDA  ade the Bank Group has increased its advisory
negotiations. It also encouraged early action  role, which improves the effectiveness and
on the proposal to make possible Enhanced  quality of its lending activities. They noted
Structural Adjustment Facility support for cer-  with satisfaction the increased collaboration
tain countries beyond those already eligible.  between the Fund and the Bank in providing
13. The Committee noted that the IBRD   countries with policy advice and technical as-
now has substantial lending headroom avail-  sistance and in the coordination of financial
able, but that new lending commitments have  support. The committee stressed that such
been relatively constant in real terms in recent  advice needs to be related to the circumstances
years. For those countries where policy weak-  of individual borrowers and coordinated with
nesses and inadequate economic performance  the support and experience provided by other
are constraining the level of IBRD lending, the  international agencies in order to exploit the
committee urged improved performance so   comparative advantage of each, to maximize
that they can take advantage of the Bank  the impact and to avoid undue overlap.
resources which could be made available, and  16. Members observed that there had been a
of the catalytic effect this would have in mobi-  significant increase in the number of countries
lizing other sources of finance. Members noted  seeking IMF assistance, and noted that al-
that even with a more rapid increase in com-  though many Fund member countries had al-
mitments, net transfers from the Bank to de-  ready consented to the Fund quota increase
veloping countries in aggregate would remain  and the Third Amendment of the Articles of
negative, reflecting the maturity of the Bank as  Agreement, the majority of them had not yet
a lending institution. However, they stressed  done so. The committee urged those countries
the need to maintain positive net transfers to  to act before the end of the year.
individual adjusting countries to sustain the  17. The committee reaffirmed the Bank's
development process. The committee wel-   conclusion that HRD is at the heart of any
comed the Bank's assurance that its assistance  strategy for reducing poverty and spurring
to Eastern and Central Europe could be ac-  economic growth, and agreed with the World
complished while continuing to support sound  Development Report 199! that "investing
programs and investments in the Bank's tradi-  heavily in people makes sense not just in
tional borrowing countries.               human terms but also in hard-headed economic
14. Members recognized that, in translating  terms." In order to achieve these aims, the
agreed objectives into operations, the Bank's  committee believes that mutually reinforcing
board and management need to consider a   action is needed at the level of individual
series of trade-offs. The committee noted with  developing country governments; of the donor
satisfaction that these agreed objectives are  community as a whole; and of the Bretton
now increasingly reflected in the Bank's guide-  Woods institutions.
lines and procedures, and are thus used in  18. Recognizing the differing needs of devel-
allocating the staff resources and lending ca-  oping countries, the committee called on their
pacity of the IBRD and of IDA. Members    governments to review their own strategies for
stressed that the issue for the Bank is now  HRD and to make sure that an appropriate
effective implementation in the design of assis-  policy framework is in place, which will inte-
tance strategies and lending operations tailored  grate long-term HRD policies with macroeco-
to country needs and conditions. The commit-  nomic policies, demographic factors, and de-
tee endorsed the recent shift in the pattern of  velopment infrastructure. It urged those
lending and the projections for the next three  governments to ensure that in framing their
years, which show an increased share going to  overall budgets they make increased provision
human-resource development (HRD). It recog-  for HRD, as an essential complement to invest-
nized that individual lending operations will  ment in fixed capital. Members drew attention


﻿Appendix 5   251
to the need to concentrate HRD budgets in-  about 2.1 percent. It believes this reorientation
creasingly on basic human services, especially  to be well justified and desirable. It endorsed
in health care, including population policies,  the World Bank's strategy of concentrating on
and toward the wider provision of primary  support for broad programs of reform and
education, for girls as well as boys, given the  development; of making maximum use of local
exceptionally high long-term payoff in this  resources and adapting to local conditions; of
area. The committee recommended that ex-   using the leverage of its own lending to encour-
pansion of HRD should be accompanied by an  age, where appropriate, the financing of a
equal emphasis on better quality services. Fi-  higher percentage of recurrent costs by donors
nally, it drew the attention of those govern-  and by recipients: of improving its evaluation
ments to the benefits which can sometimes  of the impact of HRD lending so as to influence
follow from diversifying the sources of funding  future expenditure decisions by borrowers and
and the delivery of services to include the  other donors, as well as by the World Bank;
private sector and nongovernmental organiza-  and by maintaining its own investment in high-
tions, even where governments themselves   quality staff in the HRD area as a top priority
must retain the primary responsibility for en-  within the constraints of its operating budget.
suring their provision. The committee also  The committee also encouraged the IMF to
asked the World Bank to continue reviewing  continue increasing its emphasis on the social
HRD policies in developing countries in the  aspects of adjustment.
course of its policy dialogue with them; and to  22. The committee has increasingly come to
present a synoptic account of progress in fu-  recognize the structural and other constraints
ture publications, which will help donors and  that prevent women from attaining their full
recipients to keep track of trends.        role in the development process in many coun-
19. Noting the wide scope for supporting  tries. It considered a progress report on this
international action in this field, the committee  subject prepared by the Bank which demon-
called on the donor community at large to give  strated that the Bank Group is now increas-
high priority to HRD investment. Members   ingly addressing women-in-development issues
noted that tied aid is not usually an appropriate  in the design of its policy lending and advisory
instrument in this area. The committee drew  activities, with the strong support of many of
attention to the need to balance support for  the recipient countries and with due sensitivity
capital and for current expenditure and urged  to social and cultural factors. The committee
that grants and loans for HRD projects should  was pleased with the efforts made since its last
be so structured as to ensure that the projects  discussion of this topic, and urged the Bank to
could continue on the strength of local reve-  further emphasize implementation of its policy
nues once external support is phased out.  objectives through its economic and sector
20. Members agreed that the high payoffs  Work and through its lending operations. The
from well-designed HRD investment merit    committee asked for a further progress report
some increase or redirection of the total of  in two years' time.
official development assistance. The commit-  23. The committee agreed that it would in
tee encouraged donors to pool their experi-  future carry out an annual review of the inter-
ences and, where possible, to concentrate their  linkages between the policies of the industrial
efforts in areas where their own expertise was  and developing countries focusing each year
greatest.                                  on a particular developmental topic. At its next
21. The committee noted with satisfaction  meeting, this review will emphasize trade as-
the increasing concentration of the World  pects and will be based on ajoint issues paper
Bank's lending and advisory operations upon  provided by the Bank and the Fund. At that
HRD. It welcomed the Bank's projected in-  meeting, the committee will also consider the
crease in HRD lending from about 6 percent in  interaction of environmental and development
the early 1980s to about 15 percent of total  policies in preparation for the United Nations
Bank lending on average in FY1992-94. It   Conference on Environment and Development
noted with satisfaction that primary health care  to be held in June 1992, based on an issues
now takes up about 3.5 percent of total Bank  paper to be prepared by the Bank in consulta-
lending, and that primary education takes  tion with the Fund.


﻿252   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Development Committee                                                  Appendix 5
Communiques, Fiscal 1992                           conue
24. The Committee agreed to meet again in  of developing countries with appropriate tech-
Washington, D.C. on April 28, 1992.          nical assistance, policy advice, and financial
25. Members expressed their sincere thanks  assistance, where necessary, to help them en-
to the government of the Kingdom of Thailand  ter new markets. Continued trade liberaliza-
for its warm hospitality and for the excellent  tion may also require financial support from
arrangements made for the meeting of the     other multilateral agencies and bilateral do-
committee in Bangkok.                        nors. The Bank and the Fund will continue to
Forty-third meeting, Washington,             collaborate with the GATT in promoting open
trade policies.
April 28, 1992                                 5. While recognizing the need to control
1. The forty-third meeting of the Develop-  potential damage to the environment, ministers
ment Committee took place in Washington,    agreed that such legitimate concerns should
D.C. on April 28, 1992, under the chairmanship  not be used by any country to justify new or
of Alejandro Foxley, Minister of Finance of  existing barriers to trade. These should not be
Chile.'                                     used to impose environmental policies on the
2. The committee's first annual review of  exporting country save where there is interna-
the interlinkages between the policies of the  tional agreement that this is necessary.
industrial and developing countries focused on  6. Ministers noted the preliminary assess-
trade. Ministers agreed that the speedy com-  ment of the probable impact of the Uruguay
pletion of a successful Uruguay Round would  Round on certain groups of developing coun-
be of enormous value to the world as a whole.  tries, notably those which are net food import-
Failure would mean delaying progress in areas  ers, or those whose existing preferential access
provisionally negotiated during the round; risk-  would be eroded, and urged the Bank and the
ing an increase in protectionist measures; and  Fund to consider the case for transitional fi-
leaving the world trading system less flexible  nancial help to these countries.
and less able to respond to changing condi-   7. Ministers also noted the emergence in
tions. They therefore urged all participants to  many parts of the world of regional trading
recognize the international importance of the  arrangements, a tendency which may increase
round, and to work urgently for an outcome   if the Uruguay Round fails. Such arrangements
which will result in a substantial reduction of  should be outwardly oriented, should empha-
trade barriers.                             size trade creation rather than trade diversion,
3. They welcomed the significant efforts  and should not slow down the process of
made by many developing countries to under-  greater multilateral liberalization.
take trade reform and open up their markets,  8. The committee asked the Bank and Fund
and the important trade moves many have     to provide a progress report on trade issues for
been prepared to make as part of the Uruguay  their September meeting and, once the round is
Round. To complement these measures, they    complete, a report on the implications of its
encouraged industrial countries to accelerate  outcome for the two institutions.
the pace of their liberalization efforts. The  9. The committee reviewed the interaction
round's successful conclusion requires that all  between environment and development poli-
participants now  make clear liberalization  cies and the preparations for the United Na-
commitments. They encouraged all developing  tions Conference on Environment and Devel-
countries to take full advantage of the new  opment, which meets in Rio de Janeiro in June
market opportunities which the round will    1992.
bring. They stressed the importance to devel-
oping countries of open markets in industrial
ount countries  t   ountries, in turn,dsul  'Lewis T. Preston, president of the World Bank, Michel
counrie. Inustial ounries inturn shuld Camdessus, managing director of the International Mone-
maximize these new opportunities to enter    tary Fund, Alhaji A. Alhaji, Minister of Finance of Nigeria
their markets.                               and chairman of the Group of 24, Arthur Dunkel, director-
4. The Bank and the Fund should undertake  general of the GATT, Maurice Strong, secretary-general of
and publish regular assessments of the impact  UNCED, and Peter Mountfield, executive secretary, par-
ticipated in the meeting. Observers from a number of other
of changes in world trade patterns on develop-  international sod regional organizations and from Switzer-
ing countries. They should support the efforts  land also attended.


﻿Appendix 5   253
10. Ministers agreed with the conclusion of  boundaries and require internationally negoti-
the World Bank's forthcoming World Develop-  ated solutions. They recognized that in the
ment Report 1992, that continued, and even  absence of conclusive scientific proof, a pre-
accelerated, economic growth and human de-  cautionary strategy to address the risk of cli-
velopment can be consistent with improving  mate change required a broad international
environmental conditions, but this will require  consensus, as did the need to preserve biodi-
significant policy, program, and institutional  versity. They noted the early progress made in
changes in dealing with national and global  the operations of the Global Environment Fa-
environmental problems.                    cility (GEF), which they considered should
11. At the national level, developing coun-  play a leading role as the multilateral funding
tries will require a threefold strategy. First, the  mechanism to provide new and additional fi-
mutually reinforcing roles of sustainable devel-  nancial resources through a mix of grant and
opment and environment must be vigorously  concessional funding of incremental costs for
exploited through sound macroeconomic poli-  achieving agreed global environmental bene-
cies which will promote growth and reduce  fits. The GEF should encourage universal
poverty. The fight against poverty helps to  membership. Its governance should ensure
preserve the environment. Second, such poli-  effective representation and participation by
cies must be supplemented by an incentive  all countries. They asked the GEF participants
structure which will discourage overuse of  to reach early decisions on the future cover-
natural resources; developing countries will  age, governance, and financing of the facility.
need external support for technology transfer  14. Ministers also welcomed the Bank's ac-
and for capacity building in the environmental  count of its own environmental activities, con-
area. The top sectoral priorities for direct  tamed in two successive reports, and the re-
national action are clean water and sanitation,  lated activities of the Fund. They noted the
air quality, soil, water and agricultural produc-  considerable progress made by the World
tivity, and natural habitats. Thirdly, people  Bank Group in adjusting its existing programs
and institutions (in public and private sectors  to accommodate environmental concerns; and
alike) should be motivated to adopt less dam-  the emphasis being given to such concerns in
aging behavior by bringing environmental con-  the design of the Bank's lending programs, in
siderations into their decisions-wherever pos-  technical assistance, in the policy dialogue
sible by the use of market-based instruments,  with developing countries, and in its research
which have the advantage of allowing reduc-  work. They supported the Bank's efforts to
tion of environmental damages in the most  assist borrowers and donors to design and
cost-effective way.                        implement environmentally acceptable pro-
12. Ministers recognized that many devel-  grams, including timely production of environ-
oping countries will continue to need increased  mental-impact assessments and environment-
outside help to tackle these national environ-  action plans. They asked for a progress report
mental problems. They agreed that official  for the September meeting on the outcome of
support should be provided through existing  the Rio Conference and the follow-up action
development institutions, which have strength-  planned.
ened their capacity to deal with environmental  15. The president of the World Bank gave
activities. Existing lenders and donors can help  his regular overview of the prospects for re-
through increased aid, some of it on conces-  source flows to the developing countries. Mi-
sional terms. World Bank-led consultative  isters expressed their concern that the volume
groups and UNDP-led roundtables can help to  of official development assistance has not in-
coordinate such aid and to integrate country  creased since last year, and agreed to discuss
strategies with environmental-action plans.  all resource flows and transfers in more depth
Ministers agreed that consideration should be  during their September meeting, as requested
given to a special "Earth increment" to the  previously, in order to examine the scarcity of
tenth replenishment of the International Devel-  financial resources for development and to
opment Association (IDA-10).               make concrete proposals.
13. At the global level, ministers accepted  16. The  committee  noted  the  historic
that certain  problems transcend  national  changes which have taken place since their last


﻿254   )BRD/IDA Appendices
Development Committee                                                Appendix 5
Communiques, Fiscal 1992 (continued)
meeting and they warmly welcomed the states  Ministers regretted that, because of the wors-
of the former Soviet Union into the two insti-  ening economic situation, the Bank believed
tutions. They received renewed assurances  there would be over 50 million more poor
from the president of the World Bank that  people at the end of the century than in 1985,
IBRD lending to the new members (and in    despite their earlier hope of a substantial re-
Eastern and Central Europe) could be supplied  duction. Ministers reaffirmed their view that
without jeopardy to the borrowing require-  poverty reduction must remain, in the context
ments of the Bank's other developing-country  of sustainable growth, the Bank Group's main
shareholders. They supported the Fund's cur-  priority. Every effort should be made to apply
rent and proposed operations in this area, and  this priority at the country level in the design of
noted that the rapid acceptance of the new  individual lending operations and the produc-
quota increase would allow increased Fund  tion of poverty assessments, and to allocate
activities there. They recognized the need for  the necessary staff resources with appropriate
close coordination between the Bank and the  skills. They noted that the Fund pays full
Fund and with other international organiza-  regard to the impact of members' Fund-sup-
tions. They recognized the importance of inte-  ported adjustment programs on the poor, and
grating these countries quickly into the world  helps member countries to integrate social
trading system, and the GATT, and the need  safety nets into their reform programs.
for them to liberalize their own external trade  19. Ministers noted with grave concern the
regimes. They called on donor countries to  impact of the severe drought in southern and
provide additional funds for this area without  eastern Africa, and urged donors and the Bank
diverting resources from other recipients.  and the Fund to provide maximum support for
17. The committee was briefed on the cur-  efforts coordinated by the United Nations to
rent state of negotiations for IDA-10. Ministers  alleviate the effects of the drought.
recognized the many new calls on IDA from    20. Following the proposal by France at the
the increasing needs of the poorest countries,  April 1991 meeting, the committee received a
which have traditionally benefited from con-  progress report on the study being made by the
cessional IDA lending, from newly eligible  World Bank Group of the legal framework
countries, and new and potential members of  governing foreign direct investment. Ministers
the Bank Group, and from the increased im-  welcomed the work in hand as a basis for
portance of environmental concerns. They   discussion of guidelines to help all countries
stressed once again the need to enhance the  create a hospitable environment for foreign
focus on poverty reduction in IDA operations.  direct investment. They agreed to return to this
While recognizing the budgetary constraints of  subject in the September meeting to discuss
many donors, ministers recognized the need  the proposed guidelines.
for IDA Deputies to reach agreement by the   21. The committee reviewed recent devel-
end of 1992 on a tenth replenishment of IDA,  opments in international debt management.
preferably at a level substantially above that of  Ministers noted the continued progress being
IDA-9. They noted that the Bank would submit  made under the international debt strategy in
a further progress report at the time of its  reinvigorating the reform  efforts in debtor
September meeting. They welcomed the recent  countries. They recognized, however, that for
expansion in the list of Enhanced Structural  many heavily indebted countries, the debt
Adjustment Facility-eligible countries, and the  overhang continued to pose a serious problem.
Fund's operations in support of adjustment   22. They welcomed the recent agreements
efforts. The momentum of these efforts to  reached with commercial banks, most recently
sustain growth and raise living standards must  by Argentina, covering nine countries account-
be maintained, with financial support from the  ing for more than 60 percent of the commercial
international community, including for low-  bank debt of the major debtor nations. Minis-
income countries under the Fund's enhanced  ters encouraged all parties concerned to com-
facility.                                  plete commercial-bank agreements on a timely
18. The committee received a progress re-  basis. They welcomed the decision to extend
port on the implementation of the Bank's pov-  the IDA Debt Reduction Facility for a further
erty strategy and the related work of the Fund.  two years.


﻿Appendix 5   255
23. Ministers noted that re-entry to the cap-  while necessary in certain cases, meant that
ital markets accelerated during 1991 for heavily  certain creditors would be unable to advance
indebted countries which have been success-  new loans to the countries concerned.
fully adjusting their economies. They noted  25. Ministers considered the impact of cur-
that countries which had avoided debt resched-  rent accounting, taxation, and supervisory
uling generally maintained their access to mar-  practices upon the willingness of commercial
kets, but the committee agreed that their ef-  banks to conclude debt-reduction agreements.
forts deserved continuing support.         and noted that these had not been a significant
24. They welcomed the consensus reached  barrier. They agreed to consider further
by the Paris Club on a new treatment, includ-  whether such procedures seriously inhibited
ing 50 percent debt relief, for the poorest and  new lending.
most heavily indebted countries, which are   26. The committee agreed to meet again in
pursuing appropriate adjustment policies.  Washington, D.C. on September 21, 1992,
Members noted that the Paris Club has agreed  when, as already decided, it will discuss papers
to consider the stock of debt, under certain  on the transfer of resources to developing
conditions, after a period of three to four  countries and on the legal framework for the
years. They recognized that debt reduction,  treatment of foreign investment.


﻿256
Index
Adjustment lending, 19. 20 (table), 21, 68       Chile
third review of, 68-69                           primary education project, 50-51
Africa region                                      privatization program in, 147
economic performance in 1991, 36, 112-13       China
Eastern, Central. and Southern African economic  environmental challenges. 127
performance in 1991, 114                       economic performance in 1991, 125
regional integration. 114                        reform of state-owned enterprises. 125
Sahelian countries' economic performance in    Cofinancing
1991, 114                                      ECO (expanded cofinancing operations) program,
Special Program of Assistance (SPA), 80. 113. 115  76-77, 80
West African economic performance in 1991,       EXCEL (export-credit enhanced leverage) pro-
113-14                                           gram. 76
World Bank lending to. 119                       PHRD Fund. 80
World Bank support for AIDS control, 116         Special Program of Assistance (SPA), 80
World Bank support for education, 116-17         trust-fund arrangements, 80
World Bank support for environment, 56           volume, fiscal 1992. 75
World Bank support for family planning, 52, 116  Commodities (primary), price movements in 1991
World Bank support for food security. 118-19     31, 41
World Bank support for poverty reduction, 48,  Consultative Group on International Agricultural Re-
117-18                                         search (CGIAR), activities in fiscal 1992, 102-03
World Bank support for private-sector develop-  Consultative group
ment. 60                                       meetings chaired by the Bank, 26 (table)
World Bank women-in-development activities,      meetings for countries in the Latin America and
119                                             the Caribbean region. 149
African Development Bank, World Bank cooper-       meeting for the Economic Development Institute,
ation with, 101                                    93
AIDS                                             C6te dtvoire
World Bank action against (Africa), 116          economic performance in 1991, 114
World Bank activities against (worldwide). 53    projects in support of private-sector development,
Algeria, economic performance in 1991, 152           60, 61. 62
Andean Pact. 148                                 Cyprus. graduation from Bank lending. 142
Argentina
debt-reduction agreement. 39                   Debt. See also Paris Club
privatization program in, 147                    developments in East Asia, 39
Asian Development Bank, World Bank cooperation     developments in Latin America 40
cooperatio                               developments in sub-Saharan Africa, 39
with, 101
overall developments in 1991, 36-39
Bangladesh                                         review of progress of the World Bank's debt and
economic performance in 1991, 132-33               debt-service reduction program for middle-in-
reform program, 133                                come countries. 65
Bolivia                                            World Bank advice on external-debt management.
Emergency Social Fund, 54                          80
Social Investment Fund, 54                       World Bank support for debt and debt-service
structural-adjustment program, 149                 reduction efforts. 18, 65-66
Brazil                                           Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries, 18,
Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rainfor-  38. 6768, 80
est, 58                                        use by Mozambique. 18, 38. 67
privatization program in, 147                    use by Niger, 18, 38. 67
Developing countries
CARICOM, 148                                       growth in 1991, 31. 33. 35-36
Central American Economic Community, 148         Development Committee, involvement by the
Central and Eastern Europe                         executive directors. 27-28
economic performance in 1991, 36. 136-38       Disbursements. See International Bank for Recon-
privatization programs, 138                      struction and Development: International Devel-
transition towards a market economy. 135-36      opment Association World Bank


﻿(ndex    257
Disbursements, by source of supply, 77-88        European Community, World Bank cooperation
East Asia and Pacific region101
EastAsiaand acifc reionEvaluation Capability Development Program. See
economic performance in 1991. 35, 120-22         Operations Evaluation
environmental pressures, 126-27                Executive directors
regional integration through ASEAN, 122          Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures, 30
World Bank environmental strategy for, 56        allocation of fiscal 1991 net income, 23-24
World Bank operations, fiscal 1992, 127          Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget
World Bank support for private-sector develop-     Practices, 29
ment, 61                                       Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters
Ecuador. Rural Development Project, 99-100           30
Economic Development Institute (EDI)               Committee on Personnel Policy Issues, 29
activities in fiscal 1992, 91-93                 consideration of the Operations Evaluation De-
activities in former Soviet Union, 91              partments activities, 24
consultative group meeting for, 93
McNamara Fellowships Program, 92conr-taeyeves,2
McNaara elloshis Prgram 92debt repurchases by the IBRD (discussion of), 24
training programs for nongovernmental organiza-  environment issues, 25
tions, 100                                     involvement with the
World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program, 92        27-28
Education. See Human-resource development          Joint Audit Committee. 28
Egypt
debt relief,poverty-reduction review. 25
debtrelif, 3-37review of financial-sector operations, 25
economic performance in 1991. 152-53             review of lending for privatization, 25
poverty assessment, 48                           review of lending for tobacco projects. 25
reform efforts in, 152-53                        review of provisioning policy. 24
El Salvador, tax reforms in, 145                   review of staff benefits policies, 27
Energy Sector Management Assistance Program,       Steering Committee. 30
98                                               support for expanded cofinancing operations
Environment
East Asian pressures on, 126-27
Europe and Central Asia's environmental con-   Foreign direct investment, 1991 flows, 39, 40. 41
cerns, 139
executive director's review of Bank activities, 25  Fni
Global Environment Facility, 18, 59-60. 100      108
industrial-pollution guidelines, 59
national environmental-action plans, 58          Worldin    trate 57
operational directive on environmental assess-
ment, 58-59
operational directive on indigenous people, 59  Ghana, economic performance in 1991. 114
Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assis-   Global Environment Facility. See Environment
tance Program, 155                           Guatemala. reform efforts in, 146
United Nations Conference on Environment and   Gulf Cooperation Council
Development, 31-32, 44-45, 56, 60              economic performance of member countries in
World Bank strategy in the Africa region, 56       1991, 153
World Bank strategy in Asia. 56                  program of assistance to Arab countries. 150
World Bank strategy in the Europe and Central  Gulf crisis
Asia region, 56, 58                            effect on Jordan. 153
World Bank strategy in the Latin America and the  effect on Morocco, 150
Caribbean region, 58                           effect on the Philippines, 123
World Bank strategy in the Middle East and North  effect on Tunisia, 151
Africa region, 58                              effect on Yemen. 153
World Bank operations, fiscal 1992, 18, 56
Environmental Program  for the Mediterranean,    Habitat, World Bank cooperation with. 98
154-55                                         Human-resource development
Europe and Central Asia region                     World Bank lending for education projects in fiscal
economic performance in 1991, 36                   1992, 50-51
environmental concerns in, 56, 58, 139           World Bank lending for population, health, and
privatization programs in, 138                     nutrition projects in fiscal 1992, 51-53
reforms in former Soviet Union, 139-41           World Bank research on. 94
safety-net programs in, 138-39                   World Bank support for women-in-development
World Bank operations in fiscal 1992, 142          activities, 53-54
World Bank strategy for poverty reduction, 49
World Bank support for environment, 56. 58     Implementation of Bank projects, 15-17. 24
World Bank support for private-sector develop-  India
ment, 61                                       economic performance in 1991.35, 129
European Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-      poverty-reduction efforts. 130-31
ment, World Bank cooperation with, 102           reform measures undertaken, 129-30


﻿258   Index
Indonesia                                         economic reforms in, 144-46
economic performance in 1991, 121               progress in privatization. 146-47
poverty assessment for, 48                      regional integration, 148
Second Higher Education Development Project,    safety-net programs in. 145-46
96                                            World Bank environment strategy, 58
Industrialized countries                          World Bank operations in fiscal 1992. 147-49
economic performance in 1991, 31, 32-33         World Bank poverty-reduction strategy, 48
Institutional Development Fund. See Technical as-  World Bank support for private-sector develop-
sistance                                          ment, 61
Inter-American Development Bank                 Lebanon, aid coordination for, 155
cofinancing in Latin America, 149
cofinancing with the World Bank, 75, 101, 149  Mauritania. health project. 52
World Bank cooperation with, 101-02           Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance
Internal Auditing Department, activities in fiscal  Program. 155
1992, 90                                      MERCOSUR. 148
International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-  Mexico
ment (IBRD)                                     debt-reduction effects on. 66
borrowings in fiscal 1992. 21, 70, 71. 72 (table),  Environment Project. 149
73-74privatization program in 147
capital subscribed during fiscal 1992, 74     Middle East and North Africa region
debt repurchases, 24                            economic performance in 1991, 36
disbursements. 21, 70                           natural-resource management in. 154-55
lending rate in fiscal 1992. 70
loans in nonaccrual status, 70-71               populatior     in. 15
net income. 70
provisioning for possible loan losses. 71       unmloymenin 53f54
International Centre for Settlement of Investment  World Bank operations, fiscal 1992. 155-56
Disputes (ICSID), activities in fiscal 1992, 108-09  World Bank strategy for poverty reduction, 48
International Development Association (IDA)       World Bank support for private-sector develop-
assistance to the poorest countries, 19           ment, 61
commitment authority in fiscal 1992, 74       Mongolia. economic performance in 1991, 125
commitment fee. 74-75                         Morocco. See olso Gulf crisis
commitments in fiscal 1992. 18, 74              economic performance in 1991, 150-51
disbursements in fiscal 1992, 21                National Agriculture Credit Project, 54
ninth replenishment progress report, 74       Mozambique, use of Debt Reduction Facility for
tenth replenishment negotiations, 75            IDA-only Countries. 18, 38, 67
International Development Strategy, 97          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
International Finance Corporation (IFC)           activities in fiscal 1992, 107-8
activities in fiscal 1992, 105-07               membership, 108
capital increase, 107
collaboration with the World Bank in private-  Net transfers
sector development, 63, 64                    long-term aggregate net transfers, 40
membership in, 107                              regional patterns, 40
International Monetary Fund (IMF)
structural-adjustment facilities. 11          NGcrda
World Bank collaboration with, 27, 102           aragua
Iran, economic performance in 1991, 153           reform efforts in. 146
Niger, use of Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only
Jamaica, privatization program in, 147            Countries. 18, 38, 67
Japan                                           Nigeria. economic performance in 1991. 113-14
cofinancing in the Latin America and the Carib-  Nongovernmental organizations
bean region, 149                              involvement in population, health, and nutrition
cofinancing of World Bank projects, 75            projects. 52
special fund for policy and human-resource devel-  participation in poverty-reduction projects, 49
opment (PHRD Fund). 80                        World Bank involvement with. 98-101
Jordan, economic performance in 1991, 153. See also  North American Free Trade Agreement. 148
Gulf crisis
Operational directives
Kenya                                             on environmental assessment, 58-59
economic performance in 1991. 114-15            on indigenous people, 59
private-sector assessment. 64                   on poverty reduction. 18, 25. 49-50, 97
Operations evaluation
Latin America and the Caribbean region            activities in fiscal 1992, 89-90
cofinancing activities in fiscal 1992, 149      Evaluation Capability Development Program, 90
consultative groups for, 26 (table). 149        executive directors' oversight of, 24
economic performance in 1991, 35, 143           studies published in fiscal 1992. 90


﻿Index    259
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Devel-  research on the environment, 94
opment (OECD), World Bank cooperation with.      research on human-resource development, 94
101                                              research on infrastructure and urban develop-
ment, 95
Pacific island countries, development challenges in.  research on macroeconomic issues and manage-
123                                                ment, 94-95
Pakistan                                           research on poverty reduction, 93-94
economic performance in 1991, 131                research on private-sector development, 64
reform efforts in, 131-32                      Russia. economic reforms begun in, 140
social indicators, 132                         South Africa
Panama
arrears to the IBRD cleared, 70, 146           S   outh Asia
economic-reform efforts in, 146                  eonomic
Paris Club
new menu of enhanced reschedulings, 31, 37       World Bank environmental strategy for, 56
reschedulings of debt for Egypt and Poland, 36-37  World Bank operations, fiscal 1992, 133-34
reschedulings of debt of middle-income countries,  World Bank support for private-sector develop-
37                                               ment. 61
Peru                                             Soviet Union (former)
reform efforts in, 146                           economic reforms begun, 139-41
rights-accumulation program, 146                 International Finance Corporation technical assis-
Philippines                                          tance to, 106
debt and debt-service reduction agreement, 38-39  technical assistance to, 16. 97. 106, 140, 141
economic performance in 1991, 122-23             Technical Cooperation Agreement with, 16, 97,
Poland, debt relief, 36-37                           141
Population, health, and nutrition. See Human-      World Bank membership of, 15, 16
resource development                           Special Program of Assistance (SPA). See Africa
Poverty assessments, 46-48. 47 (table)           Supervision of Bank projects, 17, 24
Poverty reduction
coordination with donors on, 50, 98            Tcnclassac
coorinaion  ithdonos o, 50 98activities in the former Soviet Union, 16, 97. 106,
handbook, 18, 25, 49-50, 100                       140. 141
monitoring, 49
operational directive on, 18, 25, 97-98          coopertionwi the U     und 96
research      on, 9394                           Project Preparation Facility, 96
World Bank research on, 93-94recommendations on 95
World Bank strategy in the Africa region, 48,    Technical Cooperation Agreement, 16. 97. 141
117-18
World Bank strategy in the Europe and Central    Worl Bankatiin       1991, 96-97
Asia region, 49, 138-39                      Technc      e
World Bank strategy in the Latin America and the  aiance
Caribbean region, 48                         t        TD
World Bank strategy in the Middle East and North  ec 59
Africa region, 4837
World Bank strategy to reduce poverty, 17-18, 46  Trade, world
Private-sector development                         developments in Uruguay Round negotiations.
coordination between the World Bank and the
International Finance Corporation, 63, 64      movements in volume and value in 1991, 42
financial-sector policies, 63                    regional trading arrangements, 44. 122, 148
private-sector assessments, 18, 64             Trinidad terms, 37
private-sector development action program. 64  Trust funds. 29, 80
public-sector management reform, 62            Tunisia, economic performance in 1991, 151-52. See
research on. 64                                  also Gulf crisis
World Bank lending in support of, 60-62        Turkey, economic performance in 1991, 141
Privatization
checklist of recommendations. 65               Ukraine, economic reforms in. 140
executive directors' review of lending for privati-  United Nations Conference on Environment and
zation. 25
lessons of experience,                           Development. See Environment
lessns f eperince 64United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
programs in Central and Eastern Europe, 138      See also Consultative Group on International Ag-
progress in Latin America, 146-47                  ricultural Research; Energy Sector Management
technical assistance for, 80                       Assistance Program; Global Environment Facil-
Project Preparation Facility. See Technical assistance  ity; Urban Management Program; Water and
Sanitation Program
Research program of the World Bank                 cooperation with the World Bank in technical
Annual Conference on Development Economics,        assistance. 95, 96
95                                             World Bank execution of UNDP projects. 97


﻿260    Index
Urban Management Programme, 98                      disbursements in fiscal 1992. 21
membership, 15, 21
Venezuela                                           organizational changes. 104-0S
privatization program in, 147                     personnel. 29, 103, 105
tariff reforms in, 145                           rehabilitation of main complex. 27, 30, 105
Viet Nam                                            staff benefits, 27, 29, 105
economic performance in 1991, 125               World Development Report 1990, 46
reform of state-owned enterprises, 125          World Development Report 1992, 18, 27, 46. 55, 94,
100
Water and Sanitation Program, 98
Women in development. See Human-resource devel-   Yemen, economic performance in 1991, 153. See
opment                                            a/so
World Bank
adjustment lending in fiscal 1992, 19, 20 (table), 21
assistance to the poorest countries, 19 (chart)  Zambia
budget for fiscal 1992, 23, 29, 103. 104 (table)  clearance of arrears, 71, 115
budget system. 29, 103                            economic performance in 1991, 115
commitments in fiscal 1992. 18-19               Zimbabwe, structural-adjustment project, 52-53


﻿
﻿The World Bank
Headquarters
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Telephone: (202) 477-1234
Facsimile: (202) 477-6391
Telex: WUI 64145 WORLDBANK
RCA 248423 WORLDBK
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTONDC
European Office
66, avenue d'Ina
75116 Paris, France
Telephone: (1) 40.69.30.00
Facsimile: (1) 40.69.30.66
Telex: 640651
Tokyo Office
Kokusai Building
1-1, Marunouchi 3-chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan
Telephone: (3) 3214-5001
Facsimile: (3) 3214-3657
Telex: 26838
ISBN 0-8213-2149-8


