10911
X. , . V" ,,> D.
International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development
W          - L    N       Ji8^N
TL"j    RPT   14
TENTH ANNUAL REPORT   1954-1955



rI_



TENTH ANN UAL REPORT * 195 4-1 95 5
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.



I                              I
I                             I



International Bank for Reconistruction- and Development
September 12, 1955
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, I have been authorized by the Execu-
tive Directors to submit to the Board of Governors this Tenth Annual
Report of the Bank, for the fiscal year July 1, 1954 to June 30, 1955.
Certain changes have this year been made in the form of the Annual
Report. It is now published in two volumes. This first volume describes the
year's activities and surveys the record of the Bank since its foundation in
1946. The second volume consists of appendices; it gives a country-by-country
summary of the year's operations, and tabular material including the financial
statements as of June 30, 1955 and the administrative budget for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1956.
Sincerely yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



contents
FACTS FROM THE REPORT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
C. H A PTI E R  O N E   THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
Loans Made  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Financial Operations .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Progress on Projects .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .   . .   7
Advisory Assistance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21
Cooperation with other International Organizations ..25
Membership and Capital Subscriptions.  . . .  .  .26
Staff   ...  .          .   .     ..   .   .   .   .   .   .    .  26
International Finance Corporation . . . . . . .27
CHAPTER  TWO            THE BANK IN THE POSTWAR DECADE  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
APPENDICES  .  .  .  Volume Two



year bonds equivalent to $852 million were outstand-
ing, of which 56% were held in the United States and
44% in other countries.
fr The year's disbursements amounted to the equiv-
alent of $274 million. Loan repayments and prepay-
ments came to $145 million. At the end of the year,
FAC  nS  FROM   THE  REPORT                     the net total of loan commitments (including both
effective loans and those not yet effective) amounted
to the equivalent of $2,067 million. Of this, $594
million had not yet been disbursed. Included in the
commitments were loans sold or agreed to be sold
to other investors totaling $143 million.
The Bank made loans totaling the equivalent of $410  F The Bank continued to provide its members with
million, more than in any earlier fiscal year. The 20  advice and assistance on development problems.
loans made were in 14 countries and territories.  Three general survey missions-to Nigeria, Malaya
Lending since the Bank began operations now totals  and Syria-completed their work during the year, and
the equivalent of $2,324 million ($2,274 million net of  another-to Jordan-was organized. Other develop-
cancellations and refundings) in 37 countries.  mental assistance covered specific matters such as
agricultural improvements in Japan, scientific and
t The Bank's net earnings reached a new record figure  industrial research in Ceylon and electric power de-
of $24.7 million, and reserves rose to $184 million.  velopment in Mexico.
Borrowers met all payments of interest and principal
due during the year.                            1is Plans were completed for the establishment of an
Economic Development Institute to be conducted by
F Sales by the Bank of parts of its loans amounted to  the Bank.
the equivalent of $99 million, nearly equal to the sum
received from this source in all the preceding years of  0 At the end of the year the Bank had 56 members
the Bank's operations. Almost all the year's participa-  and a subscribed capital of $9,028 million. Czecho-
tions and portfolio sales were without the Bank's  slovakia, whose membership had been suspended,
guarantee. Lending operations included loans linked  ceased to be a member during the year. Israel joined
with public offerings of bonds in the United States by  the Bank.
Belgium and Norway.
0 Substantial progress was made toward the organiza-
W All the bonds issued by the Bank during the year  tion  of the International Finance Corporation.
were sold outside the United States. The issues were  Articles of Agreement were drawn up in the Bank, and
taken up by investors in 24 countries; they included  the governments of almost all the Bank's member
the first sale of Netherlands guilder bonds, and further  countries expressed their support for the Corporation
sterling and Canadian dollar issues. At the end of the  as proposed.
.5.



c ha pte r                                  . 
The year's loans were made in 14 countries and territories (shown in blue), and were equivalent to $410 million.



THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES
T   HE 12 MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 1955  as a whole, given an adequate measure of economic
was for most of the free world a period of growing  and political stability, the prospect is for further
prosperity. It marked a further stage in the economic  expansion in economic activity and improvements in
expansion which has taken place with little interruption  living standards.
since the end of the Second World War. Although    The story of the year was not, however, one of
local shortages remained, total food production more  steady progress everywhere. In a few countries inflation
than kept pace with population growth; industrial  increased, bringing serious balance of payments
production continued to increase both in amount and  difficulties. Although commodity prices were generally
in diversity. The volume of international trade reached  stable, the fall in coffee, rice, wool and certain other
a new high level, more than 50%, above that of the  prices had adverse effects on the terms of trade and
immediate prewar years. A number of countries of  balance of payments of some exporting countries, and
Europe were in a better position to extend credit  required adjustments in internal consumption and
abroad, and there were other signs that the inter-  investment.
national flow of long-term private capital was begin-    But the background as a whole was encouraging,
ning to gain momentum.                         and against it the demand for Bank funds continued
The earlier concern over the outlook for economic  undiminished. Indeed, the general economic expansion
activity in the United States gave place to growing  has been reflected in the Bank's own operations, for
confidence based on the continued expansion of this has been its year of greatest activity.
business. In Western Europe there was a further
increase in industrial production, which rose during       L0ANS MADE
the year to approximately 60%' , above the prewar level.
Less developed countries, helped by a strong demand  In 1954-55 the Bank lent a total, made up of 20 loans,
for many of their products in industrial countries,  equivalent to approximately $410 million. This was
continued their efforts to increase the rate and pro-  the highest rate of lending in any fiscal year, and
ductiveness of their domestic investment. In the world  compared with $324 million in 26 loans during the
.7-



preceding 12 months. The gross amount lent by the  private bankers in the United States, and thus marked
Bank since it began operations now stands at $2,324  a significant development in the revival of private
million, consisting of 124 loans in 37 countries and  international investment. Bond issues were made at
territories. The amount disbursed stands at $1,680  the same time as loans to Belgium and Norway and
million.                                             used for the same purposes as the Bank's loans. Under
The year's loans were made in 14 countries and  these arrangements Belgium  floated a $30 million
territories, in three of which-Austria, Ceylon and  issue in December, and Norway a $15 million issue
East Africa-the Bank had not previously invested.  in April.
Disbursement of the greater part of the sum lent is    As in earlier years, the bulk of the Bank's lending
expected to be in United States dollars. But it is  financed improvements in the basic services which
expected that at least five loans-in Austria, Ceylon,  form the essential foundation for economic develop-
Finland, Norway and Pakistan-vwill be largely or  ment. Power and transport were the object of two-
wholly disbursed in other currencies.                thirds of the year's lending, and one-sixth was for
Two of the year's loans were linked with a simul-  agriculture. The remainder helped to finance industrial
taneous public offering of the borrower's bonds by  projects, or was used for other development purposes.
LOANS OF THE YEAR
Expressed in Millions of United States Dollars; For Additional Details See Appendix I of this Report
Purpose
Borrower                  Amount
or                        of                                                       Industry and other
guarantor                  loan          Transport        Power          Agriculture    development purposes
Austria  .  . .  .  . $22.0  10                                12.0
)10.0                   ~~~~~~~10.0
Australia .54.5                               28.0              .5             19.0             7.0
Belgium   .....  20.0                         20.0
Ceylon  .  .  . .  .  .       19.1                            19.1
4.5                             4.5
Colombia   . .  .  .  . 25.4  15.9            15.9
t 5.0                                             5.0
East Africa .  .  .  .  .     24.0            24.0
El Salvador . .  .  .  .      11.1            11.1
Finland .....                 12.0                             4.2                              7.8
India .  .  .  . .  .  . 26.2  1                               16.2                            10.0
Italy .70.0                                                   30.0             20.0            20.0
Mexico .61.0                                  61.0
Norway .25.0                                                                                   25.0
Pakistan .13.8                                                13.8
5.0                                             5.0
Peru .  .  . .  .  .  . 25.5  18.0                                             18.0
2.5                                                             2.5
Totals .  .  .   $409.6           $160.0          $110.3            $67.0           $72.3



±~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Belgiurn  At Antwerp, Belgium's chie] port, the Baudouin to improve inland waterways. The lock will be able to
Lock is nearing completion. This is one of the projects handle as many as four 10,000-ton ships at the same time,
fignanced by the Bank's $20 million loan of December 1954 affiording an important new entry to the port.
Transport                         In Colombl7ia $15.9 million was lent, after a study of
traffic needs, to extend by 190 miles a new railway line
The tcotal of $160 million lent for transport includes a  for which the Bank made a loan in 1952, and which
loan cf $61 million to finance the rehabilitation and  is now  under construction. This will link the rail
modernization of the Pacific Railroad of Mexico. The  network of the interior to the Caribbean coast,
railroad extends for 1,100 miles along the northwest  and will remove the need to transfer freight into
coast and serves one of the most rapidly growing parts  river barges for part of the journey. A loan of $1 1.1
of Mexico. The rehabilitation program  promises to  million in El Salvador will be used for the construction
restore efficient service on the railroad and to put it  of a coastal highway. This will open up El Salvador's
in a position to handle increased tonnages of cotton,  fertile coastal area, which has hitherto been little
wheat and other crops grown in the area.            developed because of its isolation.
.9.



In East Africa rail, port and other transport services  Karachi's generating capacity, and thus relieve an
will benefit from a loan of $24 million to the East  acute power shortage. The loan will also help to
Africa High Commission. This sum will cover the cost  finance extensive improvements in transmission and
of some of the imports needed for a transport expan-  distribution facilities. The establishment of the seat of
sion program to be carried out in Kenya, Uganda and  the Pakistan Government in Karachi, the rapid
Tanganyika, at a cost equivalent to about $100 million,  growth of industry and the expansion of commerce
over the four-year period 1954-57. The program will  have combined to bring an increase in demand which
enable the transport system to meet the heavy demands  has left supply far behind.
already imposed by the growth of the import and ex-    Several power enterprises in Europe were also
port trade on which the territories heavily depend.  financed during the year. The loan of $70 million to
The sum of $28 million included in a loan of $54.5  the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno in Italy included $30
million will be used to finance imports of transport  million for a thermal plant with a capacity of 120,000
equipment for Australia. Because of its geographical  kilowatts and for six hydroelectric plants with a total
location and its widely dispersed population centers,  capacity of more than 100,000 kilowatts. This invest-
transport services, both external and internal, are of  ment will increase installed capacity in southern Italy
particular importance to Australia. The loan will  by 16%, and will help to meet the increased demands
provide dollars to buy certain types of road, rail and  arising from the growth of industry and improvement
airline equipment in North America.               of rural living standards.
The loan of $20 million to Belgium, together with    In Austria, whose Alpine rivers form one of the
the proceeds of the public offering in the United  main power resources remaining to be brought into
States, is helping to modernize the inland waterways  use in Europe, the Bank lent a total of $22 million for
and to improve the port of Antwerp. Belgium's canal  two large hydroelectric projects. They will supply
network plays an important part in the economy, and  neighbor countries as well as the domestic market;
now carries nearly one-third of the domestic and  one will provide power for Germany and the other for
foreign trade. The port of Antwerp is not only vital  Italy. The new plants will add 280,000 kilowatts to
to the foreign trade of Belgium, but also handles a  Austria's capacity, and will increase power exports by
large transit traffic for other European countries.  30%. In Finland over $4 million from a loan of $12
million will meet part of the cost of a hydroelectric
Power                         project on a river in the north and of a thermal station
Almost half of the $110.3 million lent for power during  on the west coast. These two plants, with a total
the year is to be used for three projects in South Asia.  capacity of 130,000 kilowatts, will increase Finland's
A loan of $19.1 million for a hydroelectric project in  power potential by nearly 10%.
Ceylon will increase the power supply in Colombo, the    A loan of $4.5 million was made for power in
capital and largest city, and in the surrounding area  Colombia. It will help to finance a steam plant and a
where Ceylon's major exports-tea, rubber and coco-  hydroelectric station near the important and growing
nuts-are produced. In India the Bank lent $16.2  city of Cali, where an earlier power loan of $3.5 million
million for a thermal plant to be constructed by the  had already been made.
private companies which supply the bulk of the
electric power in Bombay. The new plant will have a                  Agriculture
capacity of 125,000 kilowatts. It will relieve the present  Financing of agricultural projects, amounting to $67
power shortage in the city, which has become the  million, included two loans totaling $23 million in
focus of an increasingly important industrial area. A   Peru. The larger of these was for a project which will
loan of $13.8 million for a 30,000-kilowatt thermal  bring irrigation water to 125,000 acres of uncultivated
power station in Pakistan will more than double  land in northwestern Peru. The other will enable the
*10*



Banco Agropecuario to extend more medium and long  ment of the Norwegian economy. The loan, together
term  credit to Peruvian farmers, and to import  with the proceeds of the public offering in the United
tractors and other supplies urgently needed by them.  States, will add $40 million to the total resources
A loan of the same kind was made in Colombia, where  available for productive investment. Norway has
the Bank for the second time lent $5 million to the  traditionally been an importer of capital. Further
Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero for  investment is required in many parts of the economy;
imports of machinery to be sold to farmers on credit.  it is particularly important in building up and modern-
The machinery will help to extend and improve  izing those parts from which Norway earns its foreign
cultivation in Colombia's fertile valley land.   exchange, such as shipping and the industries based
Finance for agriculture was included in two other  on cheap hydroelectric power.
loans made during the year. Of the loan to Italy, $20    Allocated to industry in the loan to Australia was
million will meet part of the cost of an irrigation  $7 million to provide dollars for imports of capital
project to supply water to 75,000 acres of the Catania  equipment needed in iron and steel manufacture,
Plain in eastern Sicily. More intensive farming will  mining, engineering, food processing and other private
result, and the value of farm output in the area is  industries.
expected to rise fourfold. In Australia, which depends    A loan of $2.5 million was made to a private cement
on agricultural products for about four-fifths of  company in northern Peru. The company will build a
its export income, $19 million was lent for tractors,  plant with an annual capacity of 100,000 tons to meet
harvesters, balers and other equipment. This will be  the increasing demands for construction materials for
used both for bringing new land into use and for  agriculture and industry in the area.
increasing productivity on land already farmed.    To help to mobilize capital for industrial enter-
prise the Bank assisted in setting up the Industrial
Industry and Other Development            Credit and Investment Corporation of India. The Bank
Of the total of $72.3 million for industry and for other  lent $10 million to provide foreign exchange for use
development purposes, $37 million was lent directly  in the Corporation's operations. The equity capital,
for industrial enterprises. The $20 million allotted for  amounting to the equivalent of $10 million, was
this purpose from the loan in Italy is closely linked  subscribed by private investors in India, the United
with the Bank's lending for Italian agriculture. It will  Kingdom  and the United States; in addition the
go to a number of privately-owned industrial enter-  Government made a long-term interest-free advance
prises, five of which will be established in Sicily. The  equivalent to $15.8 million. The Corporation aims to
Sicilian enterprises will produce insecticides and  promote the growth of industry not only by investment
fungicides, chemical fertilizers and cement; demand  of its own funds but also through helping to attract
for all of these is likely to expand sharply as the irriga-  the support of other investors for promising ventures
tion program comes into effect. The projects also  and through stimulating the growth of India's capital
include a factory to process oranges, lemons, grapes  market.
and other fruit produced in the area. Almost $8 million
from the loan of $12 million in Finland was allocated  FT N AN C I  L  OPERA T I O N S
for the expansion and modernization of five pulp and  Earnings, Reserves and Repayments
paper mills. Lumber, pulp and paper provide about
four-fifths of Finland's exports, and the projects are  The Bank's net income for the year amounted to $24.7
expected to strengthen Finland's position in world  million, compared with $20.3 million in the preceding
markets.                                         year. The net income was again carried to a Supple-
In iVorway a loan of $25 million was made for the  mental Reserve against losses on loans and guarantees,
import of capital equipment required for the develop-  increasing that Reserve to $122 million.
*11



In addition, loan commissions, representing a  year. Net earnings provided $25 million. Further funds
charge of 1% on outstanding balances of all loans,  made available by member countries' releases of parts
totaled $13 million. This sum was credited, as required  of the 18%o of their capital subscriptions payable in
by the Articles of Agreement, to the Special Reserve  their own currencies amounted to $43 million. Funds
for meeting the Bank's obligations; it raised that  derived from the Bank's sales to other investors of
Reserve to $62 million.                             parts of its loans increased sharply during the year;
Total reserves at the end of the year stood at $184  $97 million-three times as much as in the preceding
million.                                            year-was available from this source for new loans.
The year's gross income, excluding loan commis-  The net addition to the Bank's resources from bonds
sions, was $59 million, compared with $50 million for  issued to meet the remainder of its needs during the
the preceding year. Of the total, income from loans  year was $75 million, only one-third of the amount
was $48 million, income from investments $10 million,  in the preceding year. A net addition of $5 million
and miscellaneous income $1 million.                resulted from  exchange adjustments and changes,
From the gross income figure were deducted gross  reflecting alterations in membership, in funds available
expenses of $34 million, as compared with $30 million  from 2%o capital subscriptions.
in the preceding year. This rise in expenses was due    The following table shows the source of the funds
mainly to increased payments of interest and other  that have become available for lending since the Bank
charges on the larger volume of Bank borrowings  started operations:
outstanding. The Bank's administrative budget also
rose, reflecting the increased scale of its lending
operations and of its other developmental assistance.       FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
JUNE 30, 1955
Repayments of principal during the year amounted    Cumulative totals expressed in millions of United States dollars
to $145 million. Borrowers met all repayments due,
amounting to $29 million; of this $11 million was  2% portion of subscription of all members . $177.8
paid on loans held by the Bank and $18 million on  18% portion of subscription made available
loans sold to other investors. Borrowers also paid in    by members . . . . . . . . . 764.5
advance of maturity a total of $116 million. The        Total available capital subscriptions  .  942.3
Netherlands made two prepayments, totaling $103  Funds available from operations, including
million, on the $195 million reconstruction loan of    exchange adjustments . . . . . .          128.6
1947. KLM  (Royal Dutch Airlines) prepaid the $5.6  Funds available from sale of bonds . . .     851.6
million balance outstanding of the $7 million loan of  Funds available from principal repayments
and prepayments.          ......           139.3
1952. Iraq prepaid in March 1955 the whole outstand-  Funds available from loans or agreed to be
ing balance of $6.3 million of the loan made in 1950    sold . . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .        200.1
for flood control on the lower Tigris. A small pre-     Gross total available funds . . . .    $2,261.9
payment was made in July 1954 under the loan of 1950
to a banking consortium in Mexico.
Of the cumulative total of $2,262 million, loan
Funds Available for Lending                disbursements at the end of the year had absorbed
Additions to the Bank's lendable funds during the  $1,680 million, leaving a balance of available funds
year amounted to the equivalent of $368 million.    amounting to $582 million. Cumulative loan commit-
Principal repaid to the Bank and available for new   ments, net of cancellations and refundings, stood at
lending accounted for $123 million; it included the  $2,274 million. Of these commitments, undisbursed
unusually large amount paid in advance of maturity,  loans accounted for $594 million; this included both
and was equal to nearly half the disbursements of the  effective loans and those not yet effective.
*12-



The Bank; so far has had $2,262 million available for lending. The charts below classify these funds by source and currency.
Source by area:-
a   -                                                                United Stateis
Othier coUntries
Expressedl n rnilla .     nd.r
1006     200        as      40        500       600      700       800.    900:   1I.
t unde avail abe in
'Other cutrrenocies-
(1) T'his includes only those amounts of capital which are  same as the amount of the net income of the Bank to date.
required for present loans and which are freely available under  4Thneamutofndaviblfrmprtoshs
the articles of agreement or which members have agreed to   (4Thneamutofndaviblfrmprtoshs
been shown as obtained outside the United States because it
make available for loan disbursements.
consists primarily of interest payments received from borrowers.
(2) Based on estimates of present holdings of bonds.    Income (derived largely from investments) obtained in the
(3) This is the net amount of funds realized from operations  United States has been more than offset by expenditures there,
to date before deducting net expenses paid in currencies  and the difference has been covered out of gross income from
which are not available for lending. It is not, therefore, the  all sources.
.13



UJSE OF CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTIONS                       position to export both capital and capital goods than
Releases of 18% capital subscriptions used or allocated  in the early postwar years. In these circumstances the
to loans during the year added the equivalent of $43  Bank looks forward to a further easing, in line with
million to the Bank's lendable resources. This sum   the improved economic situation of member countries,
came almost wholly from  Western Europe, and  of the restrictions still placed by them upon the use
included the equivalent of $19.1 million from Ger-  of this part of the Bank's subscribed capital.
many, $10.6 million from Italy and $10.9 million from
the United Kingdom. It also included $1.4 million  SALES OF LOANS
from  South Africa, and $200,000 from  Peru. The  There was considerable evidence during the year of
Peruvian release enables the Bank for the first time to  greater readiness on the part of private capital to enter
allocate a Latin American currency to a loan.       the field of international investment. This helped the
The amounts of 18%//o capital so far released by  Bank to raise more funds in 1954-55 than in any
member countries in various regions and used or  earlier year through the sale of parts of its loans to
allocated to loans are shown in the table below:    other investors. Such sales amounted to the equivalent
of $99 million, compared with $34 million in the
preceding year, and nearly equaled the sum so raised
USE OF 18% CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTIONS              in the whole of the eightprecedingyears of the Bank's
JUNE 30. 1955                    life. Almost the entire amount was raised through
Cumulative totals expressed in millions of United States dollars
sales without the Bank's guarantee.
(1)        (2)         (3)         An increasing number of commercial and other
Used or
Region        allocated to   Totol 18%   Percentage of baktoku,ievrcsewhutheBn'
existing loans   capital  (1) to (2)  b
North America                                       guarantee, the shorter maturities at the time the loans
(United States                                    were made. They participated in 13 out of the 20 loans
and Canada)    $624.9      $630.0       99        made during the year, thereby making $29 million
Europe . . .    133.6         586.8       23        available for the financing of Bank projects. In the
Latin America.     0.2        60.5
Africa . . .        5.8       28.1         21       loan to Australia, II private United States banks
Asia   .  . .      -         283.6         -        participated to the extent of over $10 million.
Australasia.  .    -           36.0        -          The remainder of the $99 million arose from sales
Totals   $764.5    $1,625.0        47       from  the Bank's portfolio of loans already made.
These sales, all of which were made by private place-
ment, amounted to $70 million.
In addition to the amounts shown in the accompany-    The Bank has in its portfolio a wide range of
ing table, 18% capital totaling the equivalent of $390  maturities; but the greater part of those sold have
million has been released for lending, but subject to  been of five years or less. A notable feature of the past
certain conditions. These conditions include consulta-  year has been the development of a demand for longer
tion with the releasing member, or restrictions on the  maturities. Obligations with a life of 10 years or more
area of expenditure or rate of disbursement, or other  have been sold-mainly to insurance companies,
limitations. Such limitations make it difficult to lend  which have shown an increasing readiness to buy parts
the funds, and thus reduce their usefulness to the  of Bank loans.
Bank. The Bank has therefore continued to urge its    At the end of the year obligations still outstanding
member countries to adopt a more liberal approach  which had been sold to other investors amounted to
to the use of this capital.                         $143 million. Of this amount only $19 million carried
At the end of the year many countries, particularly  the Bank's guarantee.
those of Western Europe, were in a much better    As mentioned earlier, two public offerings made on
*14-



Measured against commitments and disbursements, repayments and sales of loans assumed new importance during the year.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ioa loan
ribusementsi
-                      1949         19-501951  =   001952                 1953         1954         1955                l
the capital market during the year were linked witll  FUNDS FROM BOND ISSUES
Bank loans. In conjunction with the Bank's $20   Large principal repayments and increased sales of
million loan to Belgium, $30 million of Belgian bonds  loans to other investors reduced the necessity for the
were publicly offered by a group of underwriters in   Bank to borrow in the capital markets during the year.
the United States; and in conjunction with the Bank's  The four issues sold amounted to the equivalent of
$25 rmillion loan to Norway, underwriters in the   $88 million, as compared with $221 million in the
United States offered $15 million of Norwegian bonds.  previous 12 months. All the year's issues were sold
In each case, by lending at long term the Bank enabled   outside the United States, the greater part of them in
the borrower to issue short and medium term bonds  Europe. Evidence was thus provided of the progress
to private investors. Although the market in the  made in building up an international market for the
United States had in recent years shown little interest  Bank's obligations in the five years since the first issue
in foreign bond issues, both the Belgian and the  was sold outside the United States.
Norwegian issue were oversubscribed.                     The strength of the international demand for Bank
*15-



BOND ISSUES OF THE YEAR
Principal     Date of             Interest  Offering
Amount        Offering     Term    Rate    Price                   Issuing Houses
f40,00O,OOO      July 1954    15 yrs.  31/2%    100    Underwriting group of 14 Netherlands banks headed
by Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N. V.
£5,000,000       July 1954    20 yrs.  31/z%     98    Underwriting group of six investment houses in the
United Kingdom headed by Baring Brothers & Co.,
Limited.
$50,000,000      Sept. 1954   5 yrs.  21/20   9934-100  Without underwriters, to investors outside the United
States by private placement
Can$15,000,000    March 1955  10 yrs.  31%4     99    Underwriting group headed by Wood, Gundy &
Company Ltd., Dominion Securities Corpn., Lim-
ited, and A. E. Ames & Co. Limited
bonds was demonstrated in September, when the  totaling approximately $13 million, and with new
whole of a $50 million issue of United States dollar  borrowing of $88 million, the net addition to the
five-year bonds was sold outside the United States.  Bank's resources from bond issues was equivalent to
Although substantial amounts of earlier United States  $75 million, compared with $220 million in the
dollar issues had been taken up by investors in other  preceding year.
countries, this was the first time that the whole of    At the end of the year Bank bonds outstanding
such an issue had been placed outside the United  totaled the equivalent of $852 million. Of this it is
States. It was also the first time that an issue of the  estimated that about $475 million, representing 56%7,
Bank's United States dollar bonds had been sold by  was held by investors in the United States, compared
private placement.                                 with 65%, a year earlier. The principal holders in the
The demand for these bonds was strong. They were  United States are pension and trust funds with an
placed in 23 countries in all six continents. Buyers  estimated 20% of the total, and insurance companies
included central banks, commercial banks, insurance  and savings banks with slightly more than 15% each;
companies and  other financial institutions, and  the balance of the holding in the United States,
industrial corporations.                           representing less than 5%O of the total, was held by
The year saw the first issue of Bank bonds in the  commercial banks and other investors. The remainder
Netherlands. Fifteen-year bonds in the amount of  of the bonds, amounting to about $375 million and
f40 million (equivalent to $10.5 million) were offered  representing 44% of the total outstanding, was held
in July. The issue was heavily oversubscribed. A   outside the United States by banks, insurance com-
second issue of Bank bonds in the United Kingdom   panies, pension and trust funds and other private
was made in the same month. The amount of the issue  institutional and individual investors as well as by
was £5 million (equivalent to $14 million) and the  central banks and government agencies. Included in
term 20 years. A third issue of bonds in Canada was  the amount was $225 million in United States dollar
made in March, when the Bank offered Can$15 million  bonds, accounting for almost one-third of the out-
in ten-year bonds.                                 standing total of those bonds.
During the year the Bank redeemed $10 million of
its United States dollar 2%  serial bonds of 1950,                 Disbursements
Sw fr 8.5 million of its Swiss franc 2I/2%,Z  serial bonds  The year's disbursements amounted to the equivalent
of 1950, and Can$1.4 million of its Canadian dollar  of $274 million, bringing total disbursements since the
4% ten-year bonds of 1952. With these redemptions  Bank started operations to $1,680 million. The sum
*16-



disbursed, compared with $302 million in the preceding  made its first development loan in 1948. Some ex-
year. The rate of disbursement is not directly related   amples of progress in this and other fields are given
to new lending activity; it is governed by the needs of  below:
borrowers as they incur expenditures covered by loans.
Disbursements for which the Bank was able to use                           Africa
currencies other than United States dollars amounted   The Bank has helped to finance the Ten-Year De-
to $66 million, representing 24%o of total disburse-  velopment Plan for the Belgian Congo, under which
ments during the year, compared with $82 million   much has already been done to improve basic services,
representing 27%o a year earlier.                      particularly transport. Navigation on the Congo, the
The international distribution of expenditures under  main traffic artery of the country, is being made easier
Bank loans is indicated in the table on this page.     by the installation of navigation lights and the delivery
of additional tugboats and barges. Traffic can now
move by night along the stretch of over 1,000 miles of
river which joins Stanleyville to Leopoldville, and the
The accomplishments of borrowers in carrying for-  new craft can complete twice as many round trips a
ward projects and programs already financed by the  year as the older types. Improvement of port equip-
Bank were perhaps greater during 1954-55 than in any   ment at Leopoldville and Matadi and conversion to
previous year. Difficulties were, of course, encountered   diesel traction of the rail link between these towns
in carryiing out certain projects, and some expectations  have helped to overcome traffic congestion along the
were disappointed. Organizational problems, unfore-  river-rail route which forms the Belgian Congo's only
seen engineering obstacles, and unexpected increases  direct outlet to the sea.
in cost were among the factors that contributed to    In another part of Africa the Bank financed a road
delays. But the record on the whole was satisfactory.  program which has now restored to usable condition
In electric power, for example, generating units put  nearly all of Ethiopia's 2,500 miles of primary roads.
into operation during the year had a capacity of more  The increase in road traffic is evidenced by the fact
than one million kilowatts-about one-quarter of the  that annual imports of motor vehicles and fuel have
capacity that the Bank has helped to finance since it  more than doubled in the past three years. Road
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN EXPENDITURES
Expressed in Millions of United States Dollars
Fiscal Year                       Cumulative Total
1954-55                         to June 30, 1955
Area of Expenditure                            Amount          %                   Amount              %
United States   .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .        $129.2          47.1              $  982.3              58.5
Europe .133.8*    48.8                                                                536.7*            32.0
Canada .7.9    2.9                                                                     86.5              5.1
Latin America   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          0.3           0.1                  62.5               3.7
Africa .2.8   1.0                                                                       8.3              0.5
Asia .0.2   0.1                                                                         3.4    0.2
Totals .$274.2                                       100.0               $1,679.7           100.0
* These amounts include disbursements on loans in which the   funds are not specified. In the figure for 1954-55, $35 million
funds, are used to cover local expenditures or used for broad   is accounted for in this way, and in the cumulative total
development programs in which the items imported with Bank    $129 million.
17!



transport costs have been reduced, so that in two years  program to rid land of the kans grass weed is entering
charges for carrying some types of goods have fallen  its seventh season; a further 180,000 acres was
by about 40%.                                       deep-plowed during the year, bringing the total
A large increase in power supplies has also been  cleared to 1l/4 million acres. Studies indicate that the
brought about with Bank help in two other countries  yield of wheat, the main crop planted, has been about
of Africa. The Electricity Supply Commission, which  70%, higher since the weed has been cleared. Re-
provides three-quarters of the total output of South  infestation of land already cleared has been slight.
Africa, made further progress toward completion of  The additional production of food grain from  the
the six-year expansion program  begun in  1953.  cleared land after completion of the project is expected
Capacity increased during the year by 320,000 kilo-  to total about 260,000 tons annually.
watts. In Southern Rhodesia, where a four-year phase    In West Pakistan the Bank has provided finance for
of the economic development plan was completed,  machinery which is clearing and preparing land for
70,000 kilowatts was added to generating capacity  cultivation in the Thal desert. Over 180,000 acres have
under a Bank-assisted electric power program.       now been made ready for cultivation, and families are
being settled and new communities established as
Asia                          additional land is cleared. It has been estimated that
Agricultural programs helped by the Bank continued  the full 660,000 acres to be reclaimed by 1958 would
to build up farm output in South Asia. In India, the  produce wheat, cotton, sugar and other crops worth
Thailand . Dredges financed by a Bank loan of $4.4 million  can enter the port of Bangkok. Modern freight-handling
have channeled through a sand bar at the mouth of the Chao  equipment, also financed by the Bank's loan, has been
Phya River, so that seagoing ships of up to 10,000 DWT  installed to deal with the additional traffic.
*18-



the equivalent of $24 million a year. The Bank-  tributed substantial sums for imports needed to im-
financed machinery has shown good performance, and  prove road, rail and air services, and financed imports
the cost of reclamation is now expected to be lower  of a variety of equipment for private industry.
than the original estimate.                        Bank finance has helped to provide capital needed
Another loan to Pakistan has helped to bring about  for the continued rapid expansion of all main sectors
marked improvements in rail services. There have been  of the economy. Both public and private investment
delays in procuring suitable coaches and in carrying  have been maintained at a high level since the first
out some of the track renewals, but the other main  Bank loan was made in 1950. In keeping abreast of
parts of the program have been completed. Diesel  the rapid growth in population and in economic
locomotives financed by the loan are now in use in  activity, gross investment is at present running at the
both East and West Pakistan, and are being operated  very high rate of about 25% of gross national product.
at a high standard of efficiency. On the North Western
Railways alone they are making possible a foreign                   Europe
exchange saving on fuel equivalent to $1 million a  A large part of the Bank's development lending in
year. As a result of the program, average speeds have  Europe has been directly for industry, and the year
been increased and additional trains are being run.    witnessed further progress in bringing industrial
In Thailand, with the help of Bank funds, a channel  projects to a successful conclusion.
has been opened through the sand bar downstream of   In Finland two new paper mills with a total annual
Bangkok. Since the opening of the channel large  output of 100,000 tons were completed, and the
ocean-going ships, which formerly had to use lighters  capacity of an existing woodpulp plant was stepped
for loa(ling and unloading, have been able to reach  up from 90,000 to 125,000 tons. With the help of the
the port; cargo-handling costs have been reduced. The  loan to the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey,
rate of silting has been higher than estimated. But the  13 industrial projects were completed, including plants
problem of keeping the channel clear is being vigor-  producing bricks, tiles and other construction ma-
ously tackled. Continuous dredging is in progress, and  terials; pharmaceutical, starch and soap factories;
the Government is undertaking a study of ways in  wool and cotton mills; and a fish cannery. In Yugo-
which the rate of silting in the port and channel can  slavia, the Zeniica steel mill was virtually completed,
be reduced.                                      with a coke plant and a blast furnace each having an
annual capacity of 200,000 tons. An aluminum plant
Australia                     at Strnisce came into initial production. Most of the
Bank lending in Australia has provided dollars for  other Yugoslav industrial projects assisted by the
essential imports from North America. It has paid for  Bank have now come into production, at either part
equipment and materials needed in almost every part  or full capacity. They have contributed to an increase
of the economy, and has thus helped to overcome  of about 30%  in industrial production within the last
shortages which threatened to slow down Australia's  two years.
economic advance.                                  Loans for agriculture have strengthened the econ-
Farm production has continued to increase with the  omy of Iceland. Imports of machinery, building
help of equipment financed by the Bank. During 1953  materials, fencing, seed and other supplies have helped
and 1954 imports of North American origin included  to improve pasture and to rebuild farms and farm
nearly 7,000 tractors and about 2,000 machines for  buildings. The sheep flock has been raised to a level
forage conservation. This and other equipment has  thought not to be attainable before 1960. Local pro-
played its part in raising production of wool, beef and  duction of imilk and potatoes can now meet all
sugar in the current season above the targets set for  domestic needs. Exports of wool, fleece and meat are
1957-58. During the past year the Bank also con-  being developed.
*19-



Italy  In southern Italy, the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno is
carrying out a broad program of economic development,
illustrated here by work to control erosion on a Calabrian
hillside. Of the Bank's $90 million of lending to the Cassa,
$70 million is being used for specific projects to develop
agriculture, new private industries and electric power.
Latin America
The greater part of the new power capacity financed
by the Bank and brought into use during the year was
in Latin America, where good progress was made on
several large projects.
In Brazil the eight-year expansion program of the
Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company Limited
was practically finished, with an increase in capacity of
330,000 kilowatts during the year. Projects completed
included the Nilo Peganha hydroelectric plant, one of
the largest underground power stations in the world.
This plant was completed in October, and brought a
30%r increase in power capacity in the Rio de Janeiro-
Sdo Paulo area, the main industrial and commercial
center of Brazil. To provide balance in the company's
total capacity and to tide over the periods of drought,
the Bank has also financed the construction of new
thermal capacity at Piratininga near Sio Paulo. This
plant also was completed in October; with its capacity
of 160,000 kilowatts it is the largest steam power plant
In Italy the Cassa per i o Mezzogiorno made further  in Latin America.
progress in carrying forward a  12oyear program         In northeastern Brazil the Companhia Hidro Et wtrica
benefiting both agriculture and industry in the south,  do S    ho Francisco completed the Paulo Afonso project,
The Bank made small loans in 1951 and 1953 to the  which will bring more power to the ports of Recife
Cassa, and has now lent a further $70 million. The  and Salvador as well as to a large rural area where
Cassa program  is aimed primarily at raising agri-  economic development is still at an early stage.
cultural production; but it is also intended to improve  Construction of this plant presented the Brazilian
roads and other basic facilities and to attract private  engineers in charge of the project with a challenging
industry. Although the program, launched in 1950, is  task, since it called for the building of a dam across the
less than half finished, it has already stimulated   S5o Francisco river-one of the largest rivers in Latin
economic activity, and has provided new employment  America, swift-flowing and with a jagged rock bed
for nearly 200,000 workers. Not only has farm pro-  which greatly added to the difficulties of the work.
duction risen, but industry has begun to move to the  Although the exacting conditions caused delays, the
area, bringing new  investments in textile, paper,  river was successfully closed and the two Bank-
chemical and fertilizer plants, brick and cement  financed generators, with a total capacity of 120,000
factories, sugar refineries and olive oil presses.    kilowatts, are now in operation.
*20.



The Mexican Light and Power Company Limited  quantities of all the principal crops are being produced.
completed all the main features of one of the two large  Costs of production on some farms have been much
programs financed by the Bank in Mexico. The Patla  reduced.
hydroelectric station, which added 45,000 kilowatts to
the capacity available to meet the growing needs of the  A D VI S O RY  A S S  S T    N (E
Mexico City area, was the last major plant in the
programr to be completed; it came into operation in  The Bank continued its policy of giving advice, upon
October 1954. The Company, helped by the steady  request, on general development problems even where
growth in sales and by various adjustments of rates,  they were not directly related to Bank investments.
was able to pay a dividend on its common stock after
a lapse of many years.                                 Surveys, Missions and Studies
Meanwhile the expansion program of the Comisi6n  General survey missions to Nigeria, Syria and Malaya
Federal de Electricidad, for which the Bank lent funds  completed their work during the year, and a mission
in 1949 and 1952, is nearing completion. It is already  left for Jordan in March. This brought to 14 the
stimulating economic growth in many rural areas as  number of such missions organized to assess the
well as in leading cities of Mexico. Plants completed  economic resources and potential of member countries
included a third unit, with a capacity of 45,000 kilo-  and to assist govemments to draw up and carry out
watts at Ixtapantongo, which will feed power into the  development plans.
Mexico City distribution network of the Mexican Light   The report on Nigeria, based on the mission's field
and Power Company, and a 55,000-kilowatt plant to  studies in the previous year, was presented to the
supply the Guadalajara area.                    Government in September 1954. Nigeria produces
The power program which is being carried out in  a wide range of agricultural commodities and im-
Chile by Empresa Nacional de Electricidad is now  portant quantities of minerals, and in recent years has
completed. Two Bank-financed hydroelectric units  enjoyed a strong demand for its exports. This has
came into operation at Los Cipreses. Together with  made possible a marked rise in living standards, which
a third unit not financed by the Bank, this plant has  has been accompanied by long strides toward self-
added 54,000 kilowatts to the capacity of the Santiago  government. With plentiful manpower and a sub-
area. In Uruguay a new 50,000-kilowatt steam plant is  stantial accumulation of funds, Nigeria is in a favor-
now in operation in Montevideo, and the transmission  able position for further economic development. The
network, which will distribute power throughout  mission found, however, that progress was likely to
many parts of the interior not previously served, is  be held back by the shortage of trained personnel and
nearing completion.                             by inadequate knowledge of the natural resources. It
An example of the results of agricultural lending in  therefore recommended  a five-year development
Latin America can be seen in Colombia, where a loan  program which would take account of these limitations
made in 1949 has paid for large imports of agricultural  and would aim at a balanced and gradually accelerat-
equipment. Together with a revolving fund set up  ing growth.
from the proceeds of sales of equipment to farmers,    The report on Syria was presented to the Govern-
this loan has financed the import of various types of  ment in March. It dealt with a country with a long
machinery including about 3,000 tractors. In the broad  history of urban civilization and deep roots in com-
Colombian valleys, where labor is scarce and the  merce. It found that in the last two decades the
planting and harvesting seasons are short, mechaniza-  introductionr of new crops and the tilling of new land
tion has made a notable impact upon farm output and  had brought great advances. There has also been a
costs. The cultivated area is being extended by 300,000  rapid growth of industry. In both sectors, the mission
acres a year and, with higher yields per acre, larger  considered, Syria now needs a period of consolidation,
*21-



with further progress in agriculture depending mainly  the staple export industries, particularly rubber, and
upon the rate at which the limited supplies of unused  the development of rice, cocoa and other agricultural
water can be developed. A  six-year development  products. It concluded that the rate of public expendi-
program recommended by the mission indicates ways  ture will have to remain high if development is to
in which agriculture can be further expanded, and con-  keep pace with the exceptionally rapid growth of
tains recommendations for further improvements in  population. Its report was presented to the Govern-
transport and power, education and public health.  ments of the Federation of Malaya, Singapore and
The mission to Malaya was concerned with the  the United Kingdom in June.
problems of an area heavily dependent upon a small    The Bank added to the number of resident repre-
number of highly developed exports, but with con-  sentatives stationed in member countries to advise the
siderable possibilities for further expansion of both  government on the formation of economic policy and
agriculture and mining. The mission recommended a  on the preparation and execution of development
five-year program aimed at increasing productivity in  plans. This service was continued in Nicaragua and
Colombia - The Anchicaya dam and power station which  capacity of 24,000 kilowatts, and is being expanded by an
serve the fast-growing city of Cali have been financed by  additional 32,500 kilowatts. Cali's many industries will
loans totaling $8.03 million from the Bank. The plant has a  benefitfirom the increased supply of electric power.
*22



Panama; and it was extended during the year to  area, a program for the economic development of the
include for the first time Ecuador, Guatemala and  Upper Cauca Valley.
Honduras.                                           In Mexico further work was done on a study of the
In Iran the Bank is providing assistance on technical  country's future electric power requirements and of
matters to the organization which will supervise the  methods of financing them. It is expected that the
execution of the Seven-Year Development Plan. In  study will be presented to the Government and pub-
particular it is helping to recruit senior foreign staff  lished in the near future. The Bank has provided the
members, especially engineers, needed by the Plan  services of an electric power consultant, and of other
Organization. In Ecuador help was given in the selec-  staff members fiom time to time.
tion of key members of the staff of a Board of Planning    In Ceylon an Institute of Scientific and Industrial
and Economic Coordination established on lines sug-  Research was set up early in 1955, with the joint help
gested by the Bank. The Board has now begun to  of the Bank and the United Nations Technical
operate, and is drawing up a long-term development  Assistance Administration. The aim of the Institute is
program. In Haiti the Bank gave advice on the setting  to improve productive techniques through research
up of an economic planning organization, and in  applied to the special conditions and characteristic
British Honduras it offered comments and suggestions  products of Ceylon. It will make field, pilot plant and
on development opportunities.                     laboratory studies. It will serve both government
Member countries sometimes ask for a study, not  agencies and private business, and is expected eventu-
of the development potential of the country as a whole,  ally to become financially self-supporting. The Bank
but of a particular economic problem. Thus Japan,  made available a member of its staff to be the Insti-
which has to import 20% of its food and is faced with  tute's first Director and to help in launching it.
a continued growth of population, asked the Bank to    The Bank continued to collaborate with India and
organize a mission to review and comment on its  Pakistan in devising ways of increasing the irrigation
agricultural program. Although many Japanese farm   use of the Indus system of rivers. Discussions were
techniques are very far advanced and yields per acre,  resumed in Washington in December on the basis of
particularly of rice, are among the highest in the  terms of reference proposed by the Bank. A firm of
world, the Bank mission which was in Japan from   engineering consultants was engaged by the Bank to
July to September 1954 concluded that there are  assist in the discussions, and early in 1955 Bank
substantial possibilities for expansion of cereal pro-  representatives, together with representatives from
duction and livestock rearing.                    India and Pakistan, spent two months making field
Another agricultural mission spent three months in  studies. In June an inter-governmental agreement was
Colombia, where further progress is urgently needed  signed by the leaders of the Indian and Pakistan
in increasing the supplies and reducing the prices of  delegations. 'The agreement makes transitional ar-
food. In addition to the problem of increasing the  rangements for water use during the April-September
efficiency of farm production, the mission was asked  crop season of 1955. Discussions are now continuing
to study broad problems of agricultural policy in such  with the object of preparing a comprehensive plan.
matters as exports and imports, prices, marketing and    Further steps were taken during the year to help
research. The mission is preparing a report to the  member countries to foster the growth of their capital
Government which will contain recommendations for  markets. Suggestions were made in various countries
a long-term program for agriculture. The Bank also  on ways to develop a government bond market as a
organized a mission which spent two months in  first step toward establishing a capital market, and
Colornbia assisting the newly-established Autonomous  advice was given on methods of raising funds to
Regional Corporation of the Cauca to launch, in  finance economic development. For this purpose the
coordination with the other agencies at work in the  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemiala, Iceland and
*23.



Brazil . The Itutinga dam and a 25,000-kilowatt power  The area served by the plant contains important deposits of
station on thze Rio Grande in the State of Minas Gerais is iron, manganese and tin-bearing ores. The plant already
being partially financed by a $7.3 million Bank loan.  operates one generator of 12,500-kilowatts capacity.
Panama were visited by the Bank's Director of  direction an Economic Development Institute has now
Marketing, and another staff member spent a month in  been organized to serve as a staff college at which
Nicaragua. In Panama, where virtually no market for  senior officials from the less developed countries can
government bonds had ever existed among private  participate, together with Bank staff, in an intensive
investors, two issues were sold within six months  study of development problems.
during the later part of 1954.                       The Institute will offer six-month seminar courses
designed to broaden the knowledge of administrators
Economic Development Institute              and to permit an exchange of experience among them.
The Bank's experience with problems of economic  Participants will be selected mainly from  senior
development has convinced it that the greatest  officials with responsibility for economic policy and
obstacles are not financial but a lack of experience in  for the preparation, execution and management of
planning, administration and management. It has  development projects.
therefore been giving increasing attention to means    The Ford and Rockefeller Foundations have each
by which it can act as a focal point for the study and  made a grant to meet a part of the cost of the Institute.
discussion of development problems. For the past  A contribution will also be made by the government
seven years training has been arranged within the  concerned in respect of each candidate selected. The
Bank for officials from member countries, both in  remaining cost will be met by the Bank.
groups and individually. As a further step in this    Professor A. K. Cairncross, Professor of Applied
*24-



Mexico. Along the 1, 100-mile line of the Paci:fic Railroad rebuilding the permanent way. In addition to equipment for
which runts between Guadalajara and Nogales, workmen are  these purposes, thie loan is financing the purchlase of 64
repairing bridges, relaying track, installing new ties, and  diesel locomotives and 684 freight cars.
Economyics and Director of the Department of Social  Nations and other international agencies. The Presi-
and Economic Research of the University of Glasgow,  dent of the Banik participated in the annual discussion
has been given leave of absence to serve as the first  of Bank activities at the 19th session of the United
Director of the Institute. The Bank is making two of  Nations Economic and Social Council in New York in
its own staff available to serve full-time with it. Other  April, and attended meetings of the United Nations
staff members will contribute to the work of the  Administrative; Committee on Coordination. Bank
Institute from time to time, thus making fully available  representatives.~ attended  various meetings of the
the lessons of the Bank's experience.               United Natiorns regional economic commissions, the
The first course will open in January 1956, and   Organization of American States, the Organization
selection of candidates has begun.                  for European Economic Cooperation, the Bank for
International Settlements, the Colombo Plan Organi-
zation and othier bodies. Information was exchanged
,COOPEBR A TIO0N  W  IT H                     with the various technical assistance organizations,
0 T HEBR  1N T E RNA T IO0N AL                    and Bank personnel, at headquarters or in the field,
ORGANIZATIONS                 ~~~~worked with them whenever opportunity offered. The
0 R G A N I Z A T I 0 N SBank continue-d to seek the help of the International
Througjhout the year close contact was maintained   Monetary Fun,,d, the Food and Agriculture Organiza-
with the International Monetary Fund, the United  tion of the UJnited Nations and other international
.25-



agencies in staffing its general survey missions and in             S T A F F
supplying advisers and consultants for member
countries.                                       In keeping with its international character the Bank
A number of international conferences of interest  continued its policy of recruiting its staff on as broad
to the Bank were held during the year. The President  an international basis as possible, but with main regard
of the Bank attended the Fourth Extraordinary  to efficiency. Thirty-seven nations, compared with 32
Meeting of the Inter-American Economic and Social  last year, are now represented on the regular staff.
Council held at Rio de Janeiro in November, and the    Reflecting the increase in the volume both of loan
Vice President addressed a Western Hemisphere con-  business and of technical collaboration with member
ference on private international investment held in  countries, the Bank's staff increased from 447 at the
New Orleans in March. Bank representatives were  end of last year to 483 at the end of the year under
present at the United Nations Population Conference  review. In addition, 46 consultants from 14 countries
held in Rome in August and September. Other  were engaged for special short-term  assignments.
representatives attended inter-governmental meetings    The rate of turnover among the regular staff of the
called to discuss projects for the harnessing of hydro-  Bank remained low. Although it is less than ten years
electric resources in the Austrian Alps and in the  since the Bank began operations, almost half of its
mountains of Yugoslavia for the joint benefit of several  personnel have now served for five years or more, and
countries.                                       over one-third have served for seven years or more.
Three resignations of principal officers of the Bank
M  E M B E R S H I P  A N D              were announced during the latter part of the year. In
CAPITAL  SUBSCRIPTIONNIS    each case it was possible to fill the vacancy with a
senior staff member who had served with the Bank
Israel became a member of the Bank in July 1954 with  since its earliest years. Mr. Joseph Rucinski, formerly
a subscription of $4.5 million. Applications for mem-  Assistant Director of Operations-Asia and the
bership from two more countries, Afghanistan and  Middle East, was appointed Director of the Depart-
Korea, were approved by the Board of Governors at  ment to succeed Mr. Francois-Didier Gregh, who
the Ninth Annual Meeting in September. The subscrip-  resigned to become Deputy Secretary General for
tions of these countries, neither of which had accepted  economic and financial affairs in the North Atlantic
membership by the end of the year, would be $10  Treaty Organization in Paris. Mr. S. R. Cope, formerly
million and $12.5 million respectively.          Assistant Director of Operations-Europe, Africa and
Following the arrangement made in 1954, China  Australasia, was appointed Director of the Depart-
paid $70,000 in June 1955 on account of the unpaid  ment in succession to Mr. A. S. G. Hoar, who resigned
portion of its capital subscription. China also fur-  to become General Manager of the Commonwealth
nished economic data relating to its capacity to pay  Development Finance Company in London. Mr.
the balance.                                     Simon Aldewereld, formerly Assistant Director of
Czechoslovakia, with a capital subscription of $125  Technical Operations, was appointed Director of that
million, ceased to be a member on December 31, 1954;  Department. He succeeds Mr. Milton C. Cross, who
it had been suspended from membership a year earlier  joined The First Boston Corporation as a vice-
because of failure to pay the balance due on its capital  president and director upon completion of a two-year
subscription. On June 30, 1955, in connection with  assignment with the Bank.
the settlement of accounts, the Bank repurchased the    In September 1954 Mr. Brian H. Colquhoun was
1,250 shares of Czechoslovakia's capital stock.  appointed Engineering Adviser to the Bank. He was
At the end of the year the Bank's members totaled  formerly the senior partner in the London firm of
56 and its subscribed capital $9,028 million.    Brian Colquhoun and Partners, Consulting Engineers.
*26.



INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
In April 1955 the Bank completed and presented for  enterprises. Secondly, the Bank makes only fixed-
the consi(ieration of its member governments Articles  interest loans, whereas the principal need of a new or
of Agreement for the proposed International Finance  expanding enterprise is often for venture capital.
Corporation. The purpose of the Corporation will be    The Corporation will have authority to invest in any
to encourage the growth of productive private enter-  kind of productive private enterprise, including agri-
prise, particularly in less developed areas.      cultural, financial and commercial undertakings; but
The Corporation will be affiliated with the Bank,  its main emphasis is likely to be on industry. The
and membership is open to governments which are  Corporation will invest in an enterprise only if it is
Bank members. It will have an authorized capital of  satisfied that the private interests concerned are
$100 million, payable in gold or United States dollars;  contributing their full share of the funds required, and
the capital will be available for subscription by mem-  that the remaining requirements cannot be met from
bers in amounts proportionate to their subscriptions  other sources on reasonable terms. It will supplement,
to the capital of the Bank.                       and not take the place of, private investment.
The Corporation will invest in productive private    Enterprises in which the Corporation invests will
undertakings, in association with private investors, in  not, by reason Df that investment, have any preferred
cases where sufficient private capital is not available  status under domestic laws and regulations. Although
on reasonable terms. As suitable opportunities come  the Corporation itself will have the status and privi-
to its attention, it will seek to recruit capital from   leges normally accorded to an international organiza-
private sources and, if necessary, to find experienced  tion, its charter does not exempt it from applicable
management. In general, the Corporation will aim to  foreign exchange regulations on the transfer of
stimulate, and to help to create conditions which will  earnings and of repayments of principal on its opera-
stimulate, the flow of both domestic and international  tional investments. In this respect, the Corporation
private investment into productive private enterprises.  will be in the same position as private investors
Investments will be made by the Corporation with-  generally.
out governmental guarantee; and the Corporation will    The Corporation will seek to revolve its funds by
be authorized to make both fixed-interest loans and  selling its investments to private investors whenever it
investments of other kinds. It may, for instance, buy  can appropriately do so on satisfactory terms. It will
securities which give it the right to participate in  be authorized to raise additional funds by selling its
the profits of an enterprise and which, when sold,  own obligations in the market; but is not likely to do
can be converted by the purchasers into capital  so in the early years of its operations.
stock. But the Corporation will not itself be authorized    The Corporation will come into being when at least
to invest in capital stock; nor will it assume responsi-  30 governments have subscribed at least $75 million
bility for managing the enterprises in which it invests.  to its capital. At the end of the year, 48 of the Bank's
The Corporation's charter gives it more latitude  member governments had in one way or another
than the Bank in financing private enterprise. The  expressed approval of the proposed Articles of
Bank may lend to private borrowers only with a  Agreement; of these, 15 had signed the Articles,
governmental guarantee; this has tended to deter  although they still had to take other steps to accept
private entrepreneurs from seeking Bank finance' and,  membership. The Governments of the United States
even when they have been willing to do so, the  and the United Kingdom, which are prospectively the
governments concerned have frequently been unwilling  two largest st:ockholders, had initiated the legislative
to pledge their credit in favor of particular private  action necessary to their acceptance of membership.
27.



ttt,to
chapter .L
Since the start of operations, Bank loans have been made in 37 countries and territories (shown in blue).
*28-



. THE BANK IN THE POSTWAR DECADE
IHE BANK IS NOW ENTERING  like this new intergovernmental corporation had ever
its 10th year of operations. It was born and has been  existed. Its Articles of Agreement stated its mission:
growing during a highly eventful decade. The decade  to assist in the reconstruction and development of its
began with the destitution left by the most destructive  member countries by stimulating the international
war in history; it closes with striking economic im-  investment of capital, for productive purposes. The
provement in much of the world, and with rising hope  Bank was to guarantee loans made for these purposes.
that progress in the pursuits of peace will long con-  It could itself make loans out of capital or borrowed
tinue. The Bank has shared in-and made its own  funds-but only if private capital were unwilling to
contribution to-this marked change of fortune.   lend on reasonable terms.
Starting with only government capital to lend, the    For operating policies and methods, the Articles
Bank can now trace to private sources nearly half the  offered guide lines, not specifications. Written large in
funds it has had available for loans. At first largely  the charter, nevertheless, was the intent to keep the
dependent on capital paid in by the United States, the  new institution clear of the reefs on to which the Great
Bank hLas since been able to use the capital subscribed  Depression had driven some of the more extravagant
by many of its other member countries, and has been  loans of the ] 920s. Whether as guarantor or lender,
able tc borrow funds from investors throughout the  the Bank was required to make a prudent assessment
world. At first regarded only as a source of loans,  of the prospects that loans would be repaid. Normally,
today it is often looked to by its members as a source  it was to associate itself with the financing of specific
of advice on many different aspects of economic  projects. It was expected to study and choose those
development. But the Bank is primarily a lender. Now,  projects for their usefulness and urgency to the
at the end of its ninth year, it has made loans of more  country concerned; and it was required to exercise
than S2,300 million to benefit production and living  any care necessary to insure that loans were applied
standards in its member countries,               effectively to the purposes for which they were made.
When the Bank informed its members in June 1946  With allowance for special circumstances, the Bank
that it was ready to begin operations, nothing quite  was to guarantee or make loans in foreign exchange
*29-



rather than in the domestic currency of the borrower.  tries. The Danish loan, for instance, amounted to 9%
In sum, the role of the Bank was to be marginal-  of net investment in Denmark in 1947 and 1948, and
marginal to private international investment, and  the Dutch loan amounted to 15%o of net investment
marginal to domestic investment in the member  during the same years. And the timing was crucial:
countries themselves. Within that scope, the charter  coming from  seven months to a year before the
ieft ample room in which the Bank could grow. The  Marshall Plan, they helped maintain a flow of essential
Articles contained admonitions, but few prohibitions;  imports when an interruption would have been a
and the emphasis of the charter was at least as much  serious setback to European recovery.
on what the new institution should do as on what it
should not.                                       BANK LENDING 1948-1955
The Bank's Lending        With the adoption of the Marshall Plan by the United
The Bank's Lending                  States in April 1948, the Bank was able to turn from
The Bank opened its doors, nearly a year after the end  the emergency of reconstruction to its long-term task:
of the war, on a world still in crisis. The peace had not  assistance in the economic development of its member
been secured: alarms of war were, in fact, to persist  countries. It continued to lend in Europe, but it now
throughout the decade. An international program for  also began to deal actively with the less developed
the relief and rehabilitation of war-devastated countries  countries elsewhere. The Bank's first loans in these
was coming to an end and, while massive United  countries were in Latin America; two loans were
States aid was being provided, it was not certain how   made in Chile in 1948. The Bank's first loan in Asia
much longer this aid would continue. Crops had  (to India) was made in 1949; its first loans to Australia
failed in some of the major producing areas of Europe;  and in Africa (to Ethiopia) were made in 1950. In
simultaneous demands for large food imports and for  most of these areas, the Bank found itself faced with
fuel, materials and equipment to reconstruct Europe's  problems very different from those of European re-
economy were depleting foreign exchange reserves at  construction. Here the task was not simply to restore
a steadily increasing rate.                       missing components to economies already mature; it
There was no question of meeting these needs by  was to strengthen foundations.
private international investment. The Bank itself also    A dearth of basic services, and particularly of
had to lend. Yet it could not lend hastily, for in 1946,  electric power and transportation, has been the major
it was watching the deepening international economic  physical obstacle to increasing production and raising
crisis with less than $700 million of usable funds in  living standards in the less developed countries. Lack
sight. It had no earnings, no reserves, and for that  of these services put severe limits on productivity, on
matter, no operating experience as an institution. It  income, and on the willingness to invest. Deficiencies
had not tested its ability to raise capital by borrowing;  of electric power supply were conspicuously handi-
and the price it would have to pay in the United States  capping industrial growth. The lack of dependable and
market, which for some years would have to be almost  economical transportation had restricted the size of
its only source of borrowed funds, was unknown.   markets for both industrial and agricultural produc-
tion, and had kept regions with promising natural
THE RECONSTRUCTION LOANS                          resources beyond the reach of development.
The Bank, nevertheless, had been established to take    To strengthen basic services and so to set free new
risks. From  May into August 1947, it made $497  productive energies has been the main objective of the
million of reconstruction loans in four countries of  Bank's development lending. The Bank has made
western Europe: France, the Netherlands, Denmark  more development loans to develop electric power
and Luxembourg. These funds were an important  than for any other purpose; but it has lent nearly as
supplement to the resources of the borrowing coun-  much for highways, railways, ports and other means
*30-



The economic fields in which the Bank's loans have been made, and the amount lent in each.
* B-~~~~~~~~~ 
of transportation. Taken together, power and trans-  industry. Mosi of this lending has been in countries
portation  account for two-thirds of the Bank's  around the periphery of Europe; the Bank has also
development lending. Projects in these fields have  made loans for the private production of iron and
plainly met the Bank's tests of usefulness and urgency;  steel in India, of pulp and paper products in Chile and
and in general private capital has not been available  of cement in Peru.
for projects of this type, even when they were revenue-    In general, Ihowever, more private capital has been
producing.                                          available for industrial expansion than for investment
About one-eighth of the Bank's development lend-  in basic services, and to supplement private investment
ing has been directly for agriculture, another field of  in industry has presented the Bank with certain
clear priority. The Bank has lent for agricultural  problems. In underdeveloped areas, industry often
machinery, for the equipment needed in land reclama-  develops through a variety of small projects; and it is
tion, irrigation and flood control schemes, and for the  extremely difficult for the Bank to assess the economic
expansion of agricultural credit. And the expansion of  merits and feasibility of these enterprises. Another
agricultural production has been an important objec-  difficulty arises from the requirement of the Articles
tive of loans made in other fields, especially for power  that loans to private borrowers must carry a govern-
and the improvement of transport services.          mental guarantee. This requirement has discouraged
Industry also has been a major beneficiary of the  private borrowers, who often fear that a government
loans for power, and about one-eighth of the Bank's  guarantee m-ight lead to state interference in their
post-reconstruction lending has been more directly for  business. Governments, on the other hand, have
*31-



usually been reluctant to give their guarantee lest they    The most typical pattern of lending has been and
appear to favor one private enterprise over another,  will continue to be a series of single loans, made over
or over various public projects.                   a period of time, to finance imports for a variety of
In some cases, the Bank has been able to surmount  single projects. In some cases, however, a loan has in
these obstacles by making funds available to industry  fact financed a program, embracing projects in
through intermediary institutions. In Ethiopia, India  different economic sectors-as, for instance, in the
and Turkey, moreover, it has helped to establish, as  case of loans made to Yugoslavia in 1951 and 1953.
well as to finance, new credit institutions able to  In other cases, as in the example of the loan made this
investigate projects on the spot and to lend without  year to Norway, the Bank has not lent for particular
guarantee, chiefly for industrial development. And the  imports or particular projects, but has provided the
Bank's member countries are now taking steps to  foreign exchange needed for general development. In
create an affiliate of the Bank, the International  developed areas where the necessary capital equip-
Finance Corporation, to invest in private enterprises  ment is locally available, the Bank has lent foreign
without government guarantee and to make not only  exchange to cover domestic expenditures, as in loans
fixed interest loans but more flexible types of in-  this year to Austria and Italy.
vestment.                                           In short, the Bank under its Articles has been able
Convenient though it may be to describe loans  to evolve a variety of forms of lending. But the
according to economic sectors, economic development  ultimate result, whatever the form, is the same: the
obviously does not take place in compartments. The  Bank adds to the stock of capital in the borrowing
Bank lends with a view to the economy of a country  country, and helps bring about a balanced develop-
as a whole. In most countries where it has lent, it has  ment of the economy. It continues to refrain from
lent more than once, has lent for various purposes,  lending where sufficient private capital is available on
and often has lent for projects that complement each  reasonable terms; it requires that domestic investment
other.                                            cover a substantial and often a major part of the cost
In Iceland, for example, two loans have been made  of projects or programs it is financing.
for imported materials to improve farm buildings and    Much of the Bank's lending has been for projects
pastures; another has been made for a plant to produce  or programs requiring a number of years to complete.
fertilizer which will be used to extend pasture land and  While development lending began in 1948, it was not
improve the yield of grass; and this plant will draw its  until five years later that any considerable number of
power supply from a hydroelectric project for which  projects began to come into operation; and it is only
still another loan has been made. In India, one of the  in recent years that there has been some physical
regions to benefit from a loan to improve the service  evidence of the productive additions that member
of the national railways was the industrial Damodar  countries have been able to make to their economies
Valley; another loan is helping to expand the private  with the help of the Bank.
production of iron and steel in the Valley; another    By the standards of highly industrialized countries,
will help to provide power for various industries; and  these additions are certainly modest; all the power
yet another is being devoted to multipurpose projects  generating capacity so far completed under Bank
which will benefit both industry and agriculture there.  loans, for instance, amounts to not much more than
In Nicaragua, loans have been made for tractors to  is used by the metropolitan area of New York City.
increase agricultural yields, for roads to improve  But in the setting of less developed countries, these
transportation between producing areas and markets,  additions represent substantial growth. For instance,
for a plant to store grain, and for power stations to  a Bank loan helped to create about one-sixth of the
supply local industries, many of which process do-  generating capacity that existed in India for the public
mestic agricultural products.                      utility power supply in 1953; another loan accounted
32*



for a sixth of the tractor fleet at work in Nicaragua in  in business or government able to plan investment;
1954; a series of loans made in Brazil by 1958 will  and they were greatly hampered by a shortage of
have increased by two-thirds the power capacity that  technicians and rmanagers able to design and carry out
existed there in 1949.                            development projects. Under these circumstances, it
It will never be possible to gauge the economic  seemed plain that the Bank could not simply accept
effects of these and other projects in terms of national  or reject loan proposals. If it were to help finance any
product or per capita income. But what can be said  considerable number of projects, it would have to
about them, in most cases, is that they constitute  offer advice about how to prepare them as well.
important aids to production which should be useful    The Bank therefore not only closely examined what
over a period of years-in some cases, half a century  was proposed, through studies of documentation and
or more.                                          visits to the field. It also developed the practice of
suggesting modifications or further study whenever
Advisory Assistance                  necessary. It quickly found itself playing-and has
In so far as development was concerned, the guide  since continued to play-an advisory role of consider-
lines of the Articles were only the beginnings of paths  able scope and variety, concerned with economics,
into new territory. Moving carefully from  specific  engineering, organization and many other factors
problem to specific problem, the Bank had to elaborate  bearing on the eventual success of the project.
its own policies and mark out its own trails. In western    Nor does the signing of a loan contract end the
Europe, the urgent requirement had been for outside  matter, for the Articles require the Bank to see that
capital. But in the underdeveloped world, the task of  loans are actually spent for the purposes intended.
lifting living standards was much more complex. The  The Bank, accordingly, has asked its borrowers for
need for outside capital was pressing, but so was the  regular reports of progress made, and periodically
need for creating the conditions and supplying the  sends its staff to examine progress at first hand. The
skills necessary for using capital more effectively than  measures taken by the Bank to follow its loans have
it had been used in the past.                     frequently macle it possible to help the borrower to
move promptly toward a solution of unexpected
PROJECT PREPARATION AND ADMINISTRATION            difficulties.
The Articles had enjoined the Bank to insure that its    As the number and variety of proposals presented
funds were economically and efficiently used, and had  to it has increased, the Bank has steadily had to add
centered that injunction on the projects to be financed  to its staff of specialists particularly concerned with
by the Bank. In consequence, the Bank has wished to  the assessmeni and execution of projects; and, when
be satisfied that the economic benefits expected from   requested, it has helped its borrowers to obtain
a project have been properly evaluated, that the project  consultants. An Engineering Consultant (now Engi-
is well designed for the function it is to perform, that  neering Adviser) to the Bank was appointed as early as
the engineering plans have been competently drawn,  1949, and a separate Department of Technical
that c(Dst estimates are complete and realistic, that  Operations was established in 1952 to be responsible
funds will in fact be available to cover expenditures  for project assessment and for advising borrowers on
not financed by the Bank's loan, and that the borrower  project problems.
has made adequate managerial and administrative    That the Bank's assistance has prevented a waste of
arrangements, not only for building the project but  resources is hardly open to doubt. That its value is
for operating it once construction has been completed.  being more and more recognized is indicated by the
It was inevitable that many proposals made to the  fact that an increasing number of member countries
Bank should be incomplete in these respects. For the  are coming to the Bank for advice about how develop-
underdeveloped countries had relatively few leaders  ment potentialities can be translated into realities.
.33-



DEVELOPMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMMING                that would depend, in the last analysis, on the direction
The Bank, however, could not logically confine-and  taken by the whole economy and especially on the
has never confined-its attention to the accomplish-  availability of foreign exchange resources.
ment of particular projects. For the Bank's financing    For all these reasons, the Bank from the beginning
of economic development could never be more than  of its operations has been interested in questions that
marginal to investment from other sources. The Bank  go beyond the particular project proposed for financ-
could not hope that its loans would stimulate private  ing. One of these questions is whether the project
investment in a member country whose policies dis-  itself, judged against the needs of the economy as a
couraged that kind of investment. It could not expect  whole, promises enough return to justify borrowing
that the projects it helped to finance, however well  on the scale suggested; another is whether the neces-
planned and carried out, could function efficiently in  sary complements to the project exist in the economy-
isolation from the economy of the borrowing country  whether farm mechanization, for instance, would be
as a whole. It also had to recognize that one effect of  frustrated for want of roads able to carry new produce
a loan would be to free some part of the borrower's  to market. And in fact the Bank has not infrequently
financial resources for other expenditure, and not  suggested, and ultimately financed, investments sub-
necessarily for developmental investment. Not least,  stantially different in kind or in scale from  those
the Bank could not look directly to the results of  originally proposed.
individual projects for the repayment of its loans;    The Bank has been at least equally concerned with
Finland . Most of the $50.28 million which the Bank has  ment valued at approximately $2.5 million was financed by
lent in Finland is for projects related to the wood-products  Bank funds. The plant began production in late 1954; it has
industry. At the privately-owned Kaipola paper mill equip-  an annual capacity of 70,000 tons of newsprint per year.
.34.



the economic environment in which its loans are to    The most comprehensive instrument for giving
be put to work. In loan discussions, it has as a matter  developmental advice to member countries, however,
of course examined a wide range of questions with the  is the general survey mission. The first of these
prospective borrower or guarantor. For instance, it  missions was organized in 1949, in response to a
has consistently urged attempts to settle defaulted  request from  the Government of Colombia for a
external debt, to put economic and fiscal policies on  thorough analysis of the Colombian economy and for
a sound footing, and to direct public investment in  recommendations on which the Government could
such a way as to promote, rather than to obstruct or  base the formulation of a long-term  program  for
displace, the flow of private capital. While the Bank  economic development. Even in its early stages, this
has not insisted as a condition to lending that final  experiment promised sufficient results to encourage
solutions be reached in matters of this kind, it has  its repetition. A separate department (the Office of
required appropriate evidence that progress in the  Technical Assistance) was accordingly established and
desired direction is being made. This position appears  given continuing responsibilities for this kind of
in various cases to have had considerable influence on  activity.
the policies of its member countries. Whatever the    In all, the Bank has now organized 14 general survey
degree of influence, it is an observable fact, for  missions to its member countries. While the terms of
example, that nearly all those member countries which  reference have varied according to the needs of the
had defaulted external debts outstanding at the end  receiving country, the emphasis consistently has been
of the war have begun-and in most cases successfully  on three points. The first is to estimate in a rough
concluded-negotiations for settlement.            order of magnitude the amount of investment that a
If the Bank's persuasiveness at first was chiefly due  country can undertake with the resources at its dis-
to the fact that the advice was coming from a prospec-  posal. The second is to recommend priorities for
tive lender, that is no longer so true. An increasing  public investment among the important sectors of the
number of member countries now seek assistance  economy and among types of undertaking in each
quite apart from any question of financing. This has  sector, after taking into account estimated private
been the trend, for instance, in the Bank's activities  investment requirements. The third is to suggest
in the field of helping member countries to mobilize  economic and financial policies and administrative
local capital for domestic investment.            measures necessary to  support the development
In 1950, a Bank representative helped the Rio  program.
Lempa Commission of El Salvador to float a public    The Bank has engaged in a number of other under-
bond issue-the first in El Salvador-to cover the  takings analogous to these missions and in some cases
local costs of a hydroelectric project otherwise financed  deriving their inspiration from them. In 1951 and 1952,
by the Bank. Since that time, the Bank has continued  for instance, economists of the staff collaborated with
v      to give advice on the mobilization of local capital for  Mexican economists in an analysis of long-term trends
the purpose of specific projects. But it has also given  in the Mexican economy and what those trends im-
assistance for more general purposes. It has often  plied for the economy's ability to absorb additional
advised member countries, for instance, on the  foreign investment. More specialized studies have been
organization of development financing institutions,  undertaken elsewhere, of agricultural development in
both public and private. For advice on the develop-  Uruguay (1951), Chile (1952) and Colombia (1955),
ment of capital markets, it has frequently made avail-  and of regional development in Colombia (1955).
able the services of its staff; and it has on occasion    The general survey mission has also been the
nominated consultants to collaborate with member  forerunner of other forms of developmental assistance.
countries on this basic problem of mustering funds  Beginning in 1951, the Bank stationed two staff mem-
for long-term investment in economic development.  bers in Nicaragua to work with the Government not
.35.



only in drawing up a development program but in  structure of the Bank. Under the Articles, each
actually putting it into effect. At the request of the  member agreed to make a modest payment, amounting
Government, the Bank has maintained a resident  to 2%, on capital subscription, payable in gold or
representative in Nicaragua ever since, to give further  United States dollars and freely available to the Bank
assistance in the programming and execution of  for lending; and to accept a liability for another 80%,
measures for economic development; and resident  unpaid but callable in gold or appropriate currencies
representatives are now serving in Ecuador, Guate-  if the Bank should need it to meet obligations rising
mala, Honduras and Panama as well. A further and  from guarantees or borrowings. The remainder of
logical outcome of the Bank's interest in the formula-  subscribed capital, amounting to 18%, was to be paid
tion of development policies is the decision to begin  in the member's own currency; but as a protection
operation next year of an Economic Development  against undue strains on the subscribers, it could be
Institute as a staff college for senior officials of member  used for lending only when the member consented.
countries.                                          The Bank at first had only dollars to lend-and,
In not a few cases, the Bank's assistance has fallen  indeed, most of the goods its borrowers wanted could
short of achieving its objectives. But in many others,  be purchased only for dollars. In April 1947, on the
it has had its influence on public policies; it has given  eve of the first reconstruction loan, the United States
new and stronger impetus to development efforts;  made the whole of its 18% fully available, for lending
it has improved the economic machinery of member  to any borrower for purchases anywhere. Soon after-
countries; and it has done something to establish new   ward, Canada began to release Canadian dollars for
and useful habits of thinking about economic develop-  purchases in Canada; and in 1952 it released the entire
ment. Whether these contributions will prove to have  balance of its original 18%o subscription for purchases
been crucial or permanent, it is too early to say. What  anywhere.
can be said is that both the usefulness and the objec-    These releases totaled $625 million. They were of
tivity of the Bank's assistance are now generally  vital importance to the Bank; for the first five years
recognized. The demands for assistance have steadily  of operations, they were the bulk of the subscribed
grown, and show no signs of abating.              capital available for lending. The fact that they, like
all 18% funds, were interest-free gave them added
Financial Resources                 value: they gave the Bank a source of finance with
When the Bank's charter was written, it was obvious  which to increase its earnings and to build up its
that at the end of the war most countries that had  reserves while still holding its interest rate to borrowers
been important sources of international investment  (apart from  a statutory commission charge) only
would be short of both capital and capital goods for  fractionally above the cost of its own borrowing in
some transitional period of unpredictable duration. A   the United States capital market.
majority of the new institution's members, in any case,   In the meantime, economic recovery was creating
were to be countries that for a long time would be  conditions in which European countries could once
importers rather than exporters of capital. In endowing  more begin to send capital and capital goods abroad.
the Bank, a formula had to be found that would  From  1952 onward, the Bank was able to allocate
establish a fund of hard currency with which to start  increasing annual amounts for lending from European
operations and would at the same time recognize the  18% capital subscriptions; at mid-1955, the allocations
straitened but changeable financial circumstances of  totaled some $135 million.
most of its members.                                These releases added new latitude to the Bank's
operations. To the extent that European 18%/0 was
CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION                              available and usable, the Bank was able to measure
These considerations were balanced in the financial  the repayment capacity of borrowers, and to make
*36-



loans, in currencies that many debtors could repay  formidable difficulties. The financial community dis-
more easily than dollars. And, like other 18% releases,  trusted any investment connected with international
they gave the Bank more freedom in choosing the time  lending and  the Bank, although possessing the
4     for its periodic approaches to the capital market for  advantage of its large uncalled capital subscriptions,
needed currencies.                                suffered the disadvantage of being new and little
Nevertheless, the Bank's European members have  known. Moreover, the market for bonds in the United
considered themselves unable to supply 18%  funds  States is composed largely of banks, insurance com-
unconditionally. While by 1954 they had in theory  panies and other institutional investors. Under Federal
made nearly all their 18% funds available, they had so  law and the laws of the 48 States, many of these
hedged them about as to make them difficult for the  investors could riot legally purchase the Bank's bonds.
Bank to reach and use. Of all these releases, for  Early in 1947, therefore, the Bank began-and has
instance, it had been possible to use only about $2  continued up to the present-a wide program  to
million equivalent for purchases outside the territory  acquaint investors and officials with facts about the
of the releasing member, even within the framework  Bank, to create a market for its bonds and to qualify
of the European Payments Union. There were con-  them for institutional investment.
ditions on the rate at which releases could be disbursed    Two months after the first reconstruction loan, the
and on the countries to which they could be lent. At  Bank successfully sold a $250 million issue of bonds
mid-1955, the Bank actually had used, or set aside for  in the United States market. The issue established that
use, less than a quarter of the 18% subscriptions of its  the new institution would in all probability be able to
European members-even though, by this time, some  borrow in reasonable amounts at reasonable rates.
of these members were guaranteeing or extending  The Bank thereafter was able to time its issues in
substantial credits through national institutions to  relation to its actual need for funds. It first returned
stimulate their own exports. After nine years of opera-  to the United States market for new money in 1951;
tions, the Bank was still far from commanding the  and, beginning: then, in every calendar year but the
resources with which the founders had hoped to  present one it has sold issues in the United States, in
equip it.                                         amounts ranging from $50 million to $100 million.
While the United States, as far as anyone could then
BORROWED FUNDS                                     see into the future, would always be the chief market
It was never to have been the purpose of the Bank,  for the Bank's bonds, there nevertheless were early
however, simply to deploy government funds; it was  explorations of possibilities elsewhere. As an inter-
the purpose of the Bank to encourage the international  national lender with a long-term need for capital, the
investrnent of capital from other sources.        Bank would need as broad a market as possible.
The authors of the charter had believed that one of    The first country outside the United States to open
the new institution's chief means of performing its  its market to a public issue by the Bank was the
function would be to attach its guarantee to bond  United Kingclom, in May 1951. Bonds were publicly
issues offered to private investors by its member  offered in Switzerland and in Canada for the first time
countries. But when the Bank concluded that it would  in 1952, and in the Netherlands in 1954. Subsequent
have to become an active lender itself, it had to decide  issues have been arranged in all these countries. In the
also that it would itself become an active issuer in the  meantime, portions of the Bank's United States dollar
capital market. Before the Bank could go far in its  issues had begun to be sold abroad; and in 1954, the
lending, it would have to test its ability to borrow.    Bank was able to place an entire $50 million issue of
The only market able to provide funds, in the Bank's  dollar bonds with private and governmental purchas-
first year of operations, was the United States. The  ers outside the United States.
charaLcter of this market presented immediate and    At the end of the Bank's ninth year, its securities
.37.



were held, mostly by private purchasers, in some 30  and Norway at the same time as Belgian and Nor-
different countries of the world. They were regarded as  wegian bonds of shorter term were offered to the
prime investments; they had traded well; and the  public through a group of underwriters in the United
margin by which the Bank's costs of borrowing ex-  States. These were the first occasions on which the
exceeded those of governments had persistently  Bank operated in association with borrowers offering
narrowed. Subject always to basic market conditions  bonds in the open market; and presumably they
that affect all portfolio securities, there was no reason  would not be the last.
to suppose that the Bank would not be able to con-
tinue borrowing in ample volume on reasonable terms.         The Tenth Year Begins
The Bank was born in a time of trouble; it starts its
SALES AND PARTICIPATIONS                         tenth year in a time of rising hope. But from the first,
The bonds of the Bank, up to now, have been the  it has had the good fortune to be working in an age
chief vehicle through which the Bank has been able  when economic progress has been of concern to more
to mobilize international investment in economic  individuals, more organizations, more countries than
devclopment. But an additional course open to the  ever before. Development efforts have been manifold;
Bank from the beginning was to try to bring the  they have tended, on the whole, to reinforce each other.
capital market into a more direct financial relationship    There has been no lack of opportunity, in the post-
with borrowers. This it could do by transferring its  war decade, to learn and relearn from experience.
own loans to other investors, either by arranging for  Economic progress, not for the first time in history,
other investors to participate directly in the loans at  has proved to grow out of a state of mind: out of the
the time they are made, or by later selling borrowers' knowledge of people that a better life is, in fact, attain-
obligations out of its loan portfolio. These transactions  able; and out of a determination of the people to win
would be a step toward enabling borrowers to establish  it by their own work. And the work goes better when
their own credit in the private market; and they would  there is economic and political stability-when the
increase the funds available to the Bank for lending.  worker in farm and factory, the business man, the
The first transaction of this kind was carried out in  investor and the public servant can have confidence
1948, when the Bank placed part of its Dtutch shipping  in the value of money, and when they know that
loans with a group of banks in the United States at  changes of government, if they occur, will not interrupt
the time the loans were made. In this case, the secu-  the essential continuity of national effort.
rities were placed with the Bank's guarantee, and for a    Technology, by itself, has proved inadequate, and
number of years the Bank continued to guarantee the  those who thought they could progress merely by
loans it placed with other investors. But from 1953  importing machinery have often been frustrated.
onward, the great majority of these transactions did  Machines demand changes of habit and organization,
not carry the Bank's guarantee; and beginning in the  and when these do not occur, technology is wasted.
spring of 1954, most of these placements were occur-  Machinery without maintenance, production without
ring in the form  of direct participation by other  marketing, industry without skilled management, are
investors at the time the loans were made. In the year  costly. Experience has shown again and again that
just past, there was a conspicuously rapid growth of  monumental projects are not necessarily useful pro-
participations in, and sales of, Bank loans: participa-  jects. But the unspectacular-the care of equipment,
tions and sales together were equal in amount to  the teaching of skills, the careful nurturing of land-
nearly a quarter of the Bank's lending during the year.  is often of inestimable value.
In its ninth year of operations, the Bank was able   In sum, it has been shown that economic develop-
to break fresh ground by lending in combination with  ment requires more than machines, more than money.
public bond issues. It made long-term loans to Belgium  It does not only require the building of great power
*38-



plants and ports and roads. It has to be an awakening  cipants in the development effort of the decade. It has
in the minds of millions of people, in all walks and  affected, and been affected by, that effort; it has been
conditions of life-an awakening that will move people  driven, and has driven itself, to a variety of activity
&     to work more effectively for tomorrow's rewards.   not imagined by its founders. As an international
The trials and the errors of the decade were count-  organization, it is privileged to have an unusually
less, and some of them were costly. But they produced  wide opportunity to gain experience in the world; it
great results. Ten years after the war, many countries  also has the opportunity to apply that experience in a
have gainLed a momentum  that is likely to go on  practical and effective way to the problems of a
increasing. Throughout most of the world, in the  world membership. The Bank starts its tenth year with
race between population and production, produc-  a sense of much learned and much done, but with a
tion is drawing ahead; living standards are on the rise.  full realization that there is much more yet to learn
The Bank itself has been one of the many parti-  and much more yet to do.
3
39.



I
a



I



(5'
a
A
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F



