                     Investing in Opportunity




ANNUAL REPORT 2018
                                                Ending Poverty
Contents
  2 Introduction
  3 Message from the President
10 Message from the Executive Directors
 13 Message from the CEO of IBRD and IDA
15 Supporting Clients in Priority Areas
34 Innovative Finance for Development Solutions
37 Promoting Development through Research, Analysis, and Data
40 Mobilizing Partnerships in a New Development Landscape
45 Regional Perspectives
70 Strengthening Operations, Policies, and Processes
73 Maintaining a Socially and Environmentally Responsible Institution
77 Ensuring Accountability and Monitoring Operations
80 Deploying Resources Strategically
90 Committed to Results

KEY TABLES
84 IBRD Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2014–18
88 IDA Key Financial Indicators, Fiscal 2014–18




This Annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2017, to June 30, 2018,
has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development
Association (IDA)—collectively known as the World Bank—in accordance with
the respective bylaws of the two institutions. Dr. Jim Yong Kim, President of
the World Bank Group and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors, has
submitted this report, together with the accompanying administrative budgets
and audited financial statements, to the Board of Governors.
Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.
Throughout the report, the term World Bank and the abbreviated Bank refer
only to IBRD and IDA; the term World Bank Group and the abbreviated Bank
Group refer to the collective work of IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA. All dollar amounts
used in this Annual Report are current U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified.
Funds allocated to multiregional projects are accounted for at the country
level in tables and text. Fiscal year commitments and disbursements data is in
accordance with the audited figures reported in the IBRD and IDA Financial
Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis documents for fiscal
2018. As a result of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to totals and
percentages in figures may not add to 100.
                             n t   s                                                                                                           Crea
                       l i e                                                                                                                             tin
                                                                                                                                                                  gm
            a   ll c                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                   Doubling resources for FCV                         Maximizing Finance for
     g
                                                        to more than $14 billion                          Development




                                                                                                                                                                          rk
   in

                                                   under IDA18 for countries affected                across the World Bank Group to




                                                                                                                                                                              et
rv



                   Expanding IDA’s                 by fragility, conflict, and violence.             pursue private sector solutions,




                                                                                                                                                                              s
                    financing tools
Se




                                                                                                        when appropriate, toward
             with the $3 billion Crisis Response                                                           achieving the SDGs.
               Window, $6.2 billion Scale-up
              Facility, and $2.5 billion Private                                                                                               Mobilizing
                        Sector Window.                                                                                                      Domestic Resources
                                                                                                                                           with support to 59 countries
                                                                                                                                         across all six regions to increase
                                                                                                                                         government sources of financing
                                                                                                                                          for development investments.




   $1 billion for women
      entrepreneurs
through the Women Entrepreneurs
   Finance Initiative to support
   women-owned enterprises in
      developing countries.                                  Implementing Innovation
                                                      The World Bank is guided by its Forward Look strategy,
                                                       which relies on four pillars in support of the mission to
                                                         end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity.
                                                                    Learn more about the World Bank’s
                                                                       innovations in fiscal 2018 at
                                                                   www.worldbank.org/annualreport.
                                                                                                                                             Strengthening finances
                                                                                                                                           with $300 million in Expenditure
                                                                                                                                             Review savings for the World
                                                                                                                                            Bank by the end of fiscal 2018.




    Pandemic Emergency Financing
      Facility’s first commitment
           toward Ebola response in
            Democratic Republic of
              the Congo in 2018.
                                                                                                                              Testing Agile solutions




                                                                                                                                                                               el
                                                                                                                          with pilot interventions in more than




                                                                                                                                                                              od
                                                                                                                            170 projects across 60 countries.




                                                                                                                                                                          sm
Le




                                       Supporting climate change action                       Improving risk
                                       with pledges to end upstream oil and gas            management in projects
 ad




                                                                                                                                                                     es
                                          projects and report greenhouse gas                 with the expected launch
    in




                                                                                                                                                                   in
           on
                                           emissions on key sector projects.                of the new Environmental &
                                                                                                                                                                    u s
       g




                                                                                                 Social Framework.

                 g lo                                                                                                                                         e   b
                                                                                                                                                         h
                         bal
                                   issue                                                                                                  vin         gt
                                                                                                                                   Im p ro
                                           s
End Extreme Poverty by 2030
By reducing the share of the global population
living on less than $1.90 a day.



              Boost Shared Prosperity
                          By increasing the incomes of the poorest
                            40 percent of people in every country.



             These are the goals that the
         World Bank has set for itself to anchor
               its mission of supporting
           global sustainable development.
       As developing countries face ever-more complex challenges, the World
       Bank is ready to provide the support and sustainable solutions needed
       to end extreme poverty, boost shared prosperity, and realize a world
       with opportunities for all.


       Providing critical resources.           This year, the World Bank has pur-
       sued this mission with a continuing focus on providing the financing,
       knowledge, and expertise to tackle the biggest challenges facing devel-
       oping countries. The Bank assists countries in making the critical invest-
       ments to grow their economies inclusively and sustainably; to build the
       human capital needed to help people seize opportunity; and to ensure
       that countries remain resilient in the face of global shocks or threats that
       could undermine progress in eliminating poverty.


       Working together.             The World Bank has continued to build and
       deepen the partnerships required to meet these objectives—leveraging
       the resources of the public and private sectors; convening influential
       decision makers, foundations, and nongovernmental organizations; and
       engaging with stakeholders and civil society at all levels. Built on a foun-
       dation of multilateralism, the Bank applies the best ideas and solutions
       from the global community to countries’ local needs.


       Delivering results. Building on the fundamental trust from its share-
       holders, the World Bank has made great strides in improving its opera-
       tions, strengthening its processes, and maintaining its position as a global
       leader in development. The Bank will continue to leverage the innovative
       solutions and financial resources its clients need and to improve the ways
       in which it delivers results for countries and their people.




2	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Message from the President

It’s not an exaggeration to say that today’s challenges can seem overwhelming.
In our work around the world, we’re facing overlapping crises such as climate
change, conflict, pandemics, natural disasters, and forced displacement. We must
simultaneously help our client countries address immediate crises, build resilience
against challenges on the horizon, and make enduring investments to prepare for
an uncertain future.
     But even in difficult times, I have never been more optimistic that we can
achieve our twin goals: to end extreme poverty by 2030, and to boost shared
prosperity among the poorest 40 percent around the world. Across the World Bank
Group, we are harnessing new technologies and developing financial innovations
to drive progress on the three parts of our strategy to get there: accelerate inclu-
sive, sustainable economic growth; build resilience to shocks and threats; and help
our client countries invest in their people.
     First, to accelerate inclusive, sustainable economic growth, we need a new
vision for financing development—one that helps make the global market system
work for everyone and the planet. In a world where achieving the Global Goals
will cost trillions every year, but official development assistance is stagnant in the
billions, we cannot end poverty without a fundamentally different approach.
     With the adoption of the Hamburg Principles in July 2017, the G-20 endorsed
an approach that we call the Cascade, which will lead to our goal of Maximiz-
ing Finance for Development. The World Bank, IFC, and MIGA are working
more closely together to create markets and bring private sector solutions in
sectors such as infrastructure, agriculture, telecommunications, renewable energy,
and affordable housing. (Read more on page 5.)
     Second, to build resilience to shocks and threats—even as we continue devel-
oping climate-smart infrastructure and improving response systems—we need
innovative financial tools to help poor countries do what wealthy ones have long
done: share the risks of crises with global capital markets. This spring, we saw
the first impact of the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) with a rapid
grant to support the Ebola response surge in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
With this facility—and a similar one we are developing to improve responses to
and prevent famine—we are finding new ways to help the poorest countries share
risks with financial markets, helping break the
cycle of panic and neglect that often occurs
with crises.
     But resilience must start with the exis-
tential threat of climate change. When we
returned to Paris in December 2017 to cel-
ebrate the two-year anniversary of the Paris
Climate Agreement, we put more than a
dozen deals on the table to finance significant
climate action such as preventing coastal ero-
sion in West Africa and scaling up renewable
energy worldwide. It was critical to lead by
example, and we announced that after 2019,
we will no longer finance upstream oil and gas
while helping countries find sustainable ways
to achieve their development goals.
     Third, to prepare for a future where inno-
vations will only accelerate, we must find new
	                                    SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	         3
       ways to help countries invest more—and more effectively—in their people. The
       jobs of the future will require specific, complex skills, and human capital will
       become an increasingly valuable resource. With the Human Capital Project, which
       we launched this year, we are developing a rigorous and detailed measure of
       human capital in each country.
           At the Annual Meetings in Indonesia in October 2018, we will unveil the
       Human Capital Index, which will rank countries according to how well they are
       investing in the human capital of the next generation. The ranking will put the
       issue squarely in front of heads of state and finance ministers so they can acceler-
       ate investments in their people and prepare for the economy of the future.
           Around the world, demand continues to rise for financing, expertise, and
       innovation. The needs are great—but the costs of failure are simply too high. Our
       shareholders are helping us meet that challenge with their approval of a historic
       $13 billion capital increase, which will strengthen the World Bank Group’s ability
       to reduce poverty, address the most critical challenges of our time, and help our
       client countries—and their people—reach their highest aspirations.
           This year, the World Bank Group committed nearly $67 billion in financing,
       investments, and guarantees.
           The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) continues
       to see strong demand from clients for its services, with commitments rising to
       $23 billion in fiscal 2018. Meanwhile, the International Development Association
       (IDA) provided $24 billion to help the poorest countries—the largest year of IDA
       commitments on record.
           This year, we leveraged IDA’s strong capital base and launched the inaugu-
       ral IDA bond. Investor demand for the $1.5 billion bond reached more than
       $4 billion. By combining IDA’s traditional donor funding with funds raised in the
       capital markets, this financial innovation will expand IDA’s ability to support the
       world’s poorest countries, including efforts to prevent conflict.
           The International Finance Corporation (IFC) provided more than $23 billion
       in financing for private sector development this past year, including $1  1.7 billion
       mobilized from investment partners. Of this, nearly $6.8 billion went to IDA
       countries, and more than $3.7 billion was invested in areas affected by fragility,
       conflict, and violence.
           Marking its 30th year of operation, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee
       Agency (MIGA) has become the third leading institution among the MDBs in
       terms of mobilizing direct private capital to low- and middle-income countries.
       This year, MIGA issued a record $5.3 billion in political risk insurance and credit
       enhancement guarantees, helping finance $17.9 billion worth of projects in
       developing countries. New issuances and gross outstanding exposure—at $21.2
       billion this year—almost doubled as compared to fiscal 2013.
           We know that the 2018 World Bank Group capital increase was a strong vote
       of confidence in our staff, who work tirelessly to end poverty around the globe.
       I am inspired every day by their dedication and their ability to deliver on our
       ambitious commitments to meet the aspirations of the people we serve.
           But we also know that the capital increase represents an enormous challenge
       to operate more efficiently and effectively, to drive innovation, and to accelerate
       progress toward a world that is finally free of poverty. In the year ahead, we will
       step up once again to meet that challenge every day.




      DR. JIM YONG KIM
      President of the World Bank Group
      and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors


4	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
How a unique strategy is helping Egypt overcome its
power distress


F    our years ago, the Arab Republic of Egypt faced a serious power crisis. Hours-
     long power cuts affected businesses and the quality of life, while demand for
electricity exceeded supply by 20 percent. With scarce public funds needed else-
where, Egypt needed an alternative way to find the resources needed to solve its
power problems. That’s where the World Bank Group’s emphasis on Maximizing
Finance for Development (MFD) came in.
    The MFD approach is a continuation of the World Bank Group’s efforts to
mobilize resources beyond official development assistance to meet countries’
development needs. It leverages capabilities across the Bank Group institutions
to come up with innovative solutions that will help achieve the Bank Group’s twin
goals. More importantly, MFD envisages a key role for the private sector—both as
financier and a source of knowledge.
    In 2014, the Egyptian government began working with the World Bank Group
to address its energy problems, bringing together local and global experts to
develop a national strategy that prioritized energy sustainability and private
sector investment. This clear articulation of policy helped attract over $30 billion
of private investment by March 2015 into Egypt’s oil and gas production and in
liquefied natural gas. In December 2015, IBRD approved the first of three pro-
grammatic loans to deliver the technical and financial support to achieve Egypt’s
energy sector reform goals, committing more than $3 billion over 2015–17.
    A key part of the reform program was to leverage Egypt’s abundant supply
of sunshine. In 2015, IFC worked with the government to develop the contracts
for the Photovoltaic Solar Feed-in Tariff (FiT) Program. In 2017, IFC finalized a
$653 million debt package to finance the construction of the Benban PV Solar
Park, which will be the world’s largest when complete. Benban’s 32 solar power
plants will generate up to 752 megawatts of power, serve over 350,000 residential
customers, and generate up to 6,000 jobs during construction. MIGA has received
approval to provide up to $210 million in political risk insurance for 12 projects
within the solar park. Overall, the World Bank Group and other lenders will mobi-
lize a total of $2 billion of private investment under the FiT program to support
1,600 megawatts of power generation.
    Egypt’s energy sector is on the way to being transformed. Among other reforms,
by 2016 the Government of Egypt halved subsidies to the sector—to 3.3 percent
of GDP—while keeping electricity tariffs affordable relative to global benchmarks,
with help from the World Bank Group. The energy sector has become more effi-
cient and financially sustainable. The government has also improved the enabling
environment for the private sector, freeing up more public resources for use in
critical social sectors.




    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/mfd.




	                                                   MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 	       5
     The Institutions of the
     World Bank Group




     The World Bank Group is one of the world’s largest sources of funding and knowl-
     edge for developing countries, consisting of five institutions with a common
     commitment to reducing poverty, increasing shared prosperity, and promoting
     sustainable development.


     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) lends to
     governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries.


     International Development Association (IDA) provides interest-free loans and
     grants to governments of the poorest countries.


     International Finance Corporation (IFC) provides loans, equity, and advisory
     services to stimulate private sector investment in developing countries.


     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) provides political risk
     insurance and credit enhancement to investors and lenders to facilitate foreign
     direct investment in emerging economies.


     International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
     provides international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes.




6	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
World Bank Group Financing
for Partner Countries




TABLE 1
WORLD BANK GROUP COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND GROSS ISSUANCE
BY FISCAL YEAR, MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
		 2014	 2015	 2016	 2017	2018
WORLD BANK GROUP
Commitmentsa		 58,190	 59,776	 64,185	 61,783	66,868
Disbursementsb		 44,398	 44,582	 49,039	 43,853	45,724

IBRD
Commitments		 18,604	 23,528	 29,729	 22,611	23,002
Disbursements		 18,761	 19,012	22,532	 17,861	17,389

IDA
Commitments		22,239	 18,966	 16,171	19,513c	24,010d
Disbursements		 13,432	 12,905	 13,191	12,718c	14,383

IFC
Commitmentse		 9,967	10,539	 11,117	 11,854	11,629
Disbursements		 8,904	 9,264	 9,953	10,355	11,149

MIGA
Gross issuance		                 3,155	       2,828	       4,258	       4,842	       5,251

RECIPIENT-EXECUTED TRUST FUNDS
Commitments		4,225	 3,914	 2,910	 2,962	2,976
Disbursements		 3,301	 3,401	 3,363	 2,919	2,803
   Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross
a.	
   issuance. RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants, and therefore total WBG
   commitments differ from the amount reported in the WBG Corporate Scorecard, which
   includes only a subset of trust funded activities.
b.	Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
   Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
c.	
   Emergency Financing Facility.
   Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window
d.	
   instruments, of which IDA has exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in
   derivatives.
   Long-term commitments for IFC’s own account. Does not include short-term finance or funds
e.	
   mobilized from other investors.




	                                                                2018 SUMMARY RESULTS 	        7
Global Commitments
The World Bank Group maintained its support for developing countries over the past year
as the organization focused on delivering results more quickly, increasing its relevance for
clients and partners, and bringing global solutions to local challenges.




                                                    LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN



                                                            $8.7
                                                            BILLION




$66.9
BILLION
in loans, grants, equity investments,
and guarantees to partner countries
and private businesses.

Total includes multiregional and global projects.
Regional breakdowns reflect World Bank country
classifications.
                   EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA



                         $8.8
                         BILLION                            EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC



                                                              $6.8
                                                              BILLION




                     $8.2
                     BILLION                  $14.1
               MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
                                              BILLION
                                               SOUTH ASIA


    $19.8
      BILLION
    SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA




	                                              2018 SUMMARY RESULTS 	               9
      Message from the
      Executive Directors

      During fiscal 2018, the Executive Directors worked closely with management to
      implement the vision for the World Bank Group (WBG) as set out in the Forward
      Look and presented to the Board of Governors in 2016. This discussion centered
      around a capital package to enable the Bank Group to continue to engage with all
      its clients while ensuring robust, sustainable financial management. The transfor-
      mative financial and policy package is the largest injection of capital to the World
      Bank and IFC to date, and represents a major shift in approaches to address today’s
      toughest development challenges.
          The Board also delivered on the ambitions set out in the Lima timeline on Voice
      Reform, agreeing to a framework that rebalances shareholding in the World Bank
      and more closely aligns the voting power of member countries among all World
      Bank Group institutions.
          To serve the world’s poorest, the Board worked with management on the
      implementation of the IDA18 package to respond to complex challenges, includ-
      ing those related to fragility, regional integration, refugees and host communities,
      crisis response, private sector mobilization, and efforts to scale up transformational
      projects. At the same time, recognizing that country investment needs far surpass
      available public financing, the Bank Group redoubled its efforts to mobilize private
      finance through the Maximizing Finance for Development approach. The Board urged
      the Bank Group institutions to better leverage synergies in working together and
      with partners to attract, manage, and crowd in private investments in support of
      development objectives.
          The World Bank Group is uniquely positioned to tackle today’s global challenges.
      The Board has emphasized its expectation that the Bank Group intensify efforts to
      lead on global issues—including the promotion of global public goods and the nar-
      rowing of gender gaps—while supporting countries’ investments in the long-term
      drivers of sustainable and inclusive growth. In support of these aims, the Board has
      underscored the need for the Bank Group to continuously strengthen its business
      model, including through simpler, more agile processes and strengthened strategic




10	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Standing (Left to Right): Werner Gruber, Switzerland; Frank Heemskerk, The Netherlands; Turki Almutairi,
Saudi Arabia (Alternate); Andrei Lushin, Russian Federation; Yingming Yang, China; Jean-Claude
Tchatchouang, Cameroon (Alternate); Hervé de Villeroché, France; Otaviano Canuto, Brazil; Kazuhiko
Koguchi, Japan; Andin Hadiyanto, Indonesia; Erik Bethel, United States (Alternate); Fernando Jimenez
Latorre, Spain; Omar Bougara, Algeria; Aparna Subramani, India
Seated (Left to Right): Melanie Robinson, United Kingdom; Christine Hogan, Canada; Máximo Torero,
Peru; Jason Allford, Australia; Bongi Kunene, South Africa; Merza Hasan, Kuwait (Dean); Franciscus Godts,
Belgium; Patrizio Pagano, Italy; Juergen Zattler, Germany; Susan Ulbaek, Denmark; Andrew N. Bvumbe,
Zimbabwe




and partnership frameworks, while still seeking internal efficiency measures to
ensure financial sustainability. The Board also supported the implementation of the
World Bank’s new Environmental and Social Framework, which will offer broader
and more systematic coverage of environmental and social risks, including issues
such as labor, land use, and resource efficiency.
   To observe the direct impacts of the World Bank Group’s operational engage-
ment in client countries, Executive Directors periodically visit project sites to discuss
the effectiveness of the Bank Group’s delivery model with government officials. This
year, Directors traveled to Colombia, Jamaica, and Nicaragua; to Burkina Faso, The
Gambia, and Nigeria; and to Belarus, Georgia, and Ukraine.

Who are the World Bank’s Executive Directors?
The 25 resident Executive Directors, representing the World Bank’s 189 member
countries, are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the World
Bank under delegated powers from the Board of Governors. The Executive Directors
select a President, who serves as Chair of the Board. The current Board term is from
November 2016 to October 2018.

Guiding the institution
Executive Directors fulfill an important role in guiding the general operations and
strategic direction of the World Bank, and they represent member countries’ view-
points on the Bank’s role. They consider and decide on proposals made by the
President for IBRD and IDA loans, credits, grants, and guarantees; new policies;
the administrative budget; and other operational and financial matters. They also
discuss Country Partnership Frameworks—the central tool by which management
and the Board review and guide the Bank’s engagement with client countries and
support for development programs. Moreover, Executive Directors are responsible




	                                            MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 	                         11
      for presenting to the Board of Governors an audit of accounts, an administrative
      budget, and the World Bank’s Annual Report on fiscal year results.


      Structuring the Board’s work
      The Board has five standing committees and one ad hoc committee. Executive
      Directors serve on one or more of these committees, which help the Board to
      discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies
      and practices. The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee, on which all Executive
      Directors serve, meets bimonthly to discuss the Board’s strategic work program.
         The Board, through its committees, regularly engages on the effectiveness of the
      activities of the World Bank Group with management and with the independent
      Inspection Panel and the Independent Evaluation Group, which report directly to
      the Board.



      FIGURE 1
      COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

             Steering Committee for the World Bank’s (IBRD and IDA) Board


         Audit Committee             Budget Committee                Committee on
                                                                     Development
         Oversees the Bank’s           Assists the Board
                                                                     Effectiveness
        finances, accounting,          in approving the
          risk management,              Bank’s budgets.               Assesses the
        internal controls, and                                    Bank’s development
        institutional integrity.                                effectiveness, guides its
                                                                strategic direction, and
                                                                monitors the quality and
                                                                results of its operations.



           Committee on               Human Resources              Ethics Committee
          Governance and                Committee
                                                                 Established in 2003 to
        Executive Directors’
                                    Oversees responsibility      consider, on an ad hoc
           Administrative
             Matters                     on the Bank’s          basis, matters relating to
                                       human resources             the interpretation
       Guides the governance
                                    strategy, policies, and       or application of the
            of the Bank,
                                     practices, and their         Code of Conduct for
          the Board’s own
                                      alignment with its             Board Officials
       effectiveness, and the
        administrative policy           business needs.
       applicable to Executive
         Directors’ offices.




       For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/boards.



12	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Message from the
Chief Executive Officer of IBRD and IDA



This was a truly historic year at the World Bank, and I am incredibly proud of what
our institution has accomplished.
     We have strengthened our ability to deliver in an extremely challenging global
environment, and we go into the next year positioned as an even more valued
partner for our client countries, regardless of income level, as they work to overcome
the economic and development challenges they face.
     We continue to drive the global conversation on poverty and inequality—our
core mission—looking beyond the averages to see where extreme poverty is
creeping up, due to wars, conflict, population growth, and fragility, and how we can
fight it more effectively. Our research demonstrates that equalizing opportunities
and investing in human capital are the way forward for a better world.
     At the same time, emerging concerns over trade and rising debt levels loom large
for our clients and shareholders. We know from experience that trade, openness,
and solid economic management are good for growth, good for jobs, and good for
poverty reduction. Our work has therefore continued to focus on the best policies
and programs to improve the well-being of the poorest and most vulnerable,
wherever they live.
     In fiscal 2018, our combined commitments for the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development
Association (IDA) totaled more than $47 billion. But these impressive numbers
stand for something much bigger. They represent our ability to confront the world’s
toughest challenges and to step in when our clients need us the most.
     There were so many stand-out moments this year, but let me highlight a few.
     We stepped up our support to the Caribbean after hurricanes Irma and Maria,
using every analytical and financial instrument at our disposal. This allowed us to
deploy expertise and money where it was
needed, as quickly as possible, to help
restore livelihoods, strengthen resilience,
and rebuild communities.
     When the Democratic Republic of
Congo confirmed an outbreak of Ebola
in    May,   our   Pandemic    Emergency
Financing Facility was activated for
the first time to release $12 million
immediately. Along with an additional
$15 million in reallocated funds, this
helped fund the government’s response
plan in just two days, and our crisis
response platform is on alert to do more.




	                  MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF IBRD AND IDA 	            13
         We exceeded our targets for climate change, with one-third of total World Bank
      lending, or nearly $16 billion dollars, going to development activities that address
      climate change. This shows that our efforts to mainstream climate mitigation and
      adaptation into the portfolio are paying off.
         And we are leading on knowledge and thought leadership. For example, we
      made a clear moral and economic case for gender equality: we reported how child
      marriage curbs the potential of young women and costs developing countries
      trillions of dollars; we highlighted the laws and regulations that still prevent women
      around the world from participating fully and equally with men; and we calculated
      that gender inequality in the workplace is costing the world $160 trillion.
         This was also a successful and innovative year for IDA, including the highest-ever
      first year of commitments—$24 billion—to support the world’s poorest countries.
      This year also saw IDA’s inaugural bond, which received a resounding response from
      the market and generated $4.6 billion in orders from high-quality investors around
      the world.
         The agreement we reached with our shareholders in April as part of the capital
      increase has made us stronger and set new milestones for the coming years: to
      improve our business model, effectively allocate resources, and do more and do
      better for our clients. This means walking the talk on issues such as climate change,
      gender, jobs, and fragility, but also taking a close look at the way we work and push-
      ing our performance and productivity.
         We continue to shift our resources to the front lines to deliver in areas of the
      world that need us the most. The number of operations staff in the field increased
      by 5 percent in fiscal 2018, and we have more staff on the ground today in fragile
      and conflict-affected situations than ever before.
         Working with the management team, we are taking steps to become a more inno-
      vative, impact-driven, flexible, and responsive institution. Working closely alongside
      the Executive Directors, we introduced the Multiphase Programmatic Approach,
      which helps us learn, adapt, and make better use of our financial resources as our
      operations unfold. We approved the first program of this type: the 10-year, $200
      million Madagascar Improving Nutrition Outcomes Program to tackle stunting, one
      of the country’s most pressing development challenges.
         Led by the President, we are doing our part to make the World Bank Group’s
      Maximizing Finance for Development approach a reality. This drive to access all
      sources of finance, expertise, and solutions to support developing countries will
      not happen overnight. I am looking forward to this ramping up significantly in fiscal
      2019, with the help of our Agile fellows and the commitment of staff across the
      Bank Group to work together for our clients.
         Everywhere I travel, I am struck by the difference that our work makes on the
      ground for people in underserved communities, who are at risk of being left behind
      by global progress. It is through the commitment of our shareholders, staff, and
      clients that we will continue to be a trusted partner for countries all over the world
      who are working to create a better future for their people.




        KRISTALINA GEORGIEVA
        Chief Executive Officer of IBRD and IDA



14	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Supporting Clients in
Priority Areas




For the first time in over a decade, the global economy is operating at full capac-

ity, signaling robust economic growth. Yet despite this positive news, critical chal-

lenges remain for developing countries.

    The international community is racing to achieve the Sustainable Develop-

ment Goals in less than 12 years, with trillions of dollars needed to deliver on the

promise. Overlapping crises, from climate change to pandemics, natural disas-

ters to forced displacement, threaten to erase hard-earned development gains.

And historic economic changes, in part from technological advancement and

disruption, present risks for countries, but also opportunities if they have made

the necessary investments in their people, communities, and economies to take

advantage of them.

    The world needs partners that can help meet the challenges of today, while

making the investments to prepare for the challenges of tomorrow. By offering

financing, knowledge, experience, and a long-term commitment to its country

clients, the World Bank is a trusted partner for all its members to help transform

economies and advance the 2030 sustainable development agenda.

    With a mission to end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity, the World

Bank supports its client countries in three priority areas: promoting sustainable,

inclusive economic growth; investing more—and more effectively—in people;

and building resilience to fragility, shocks, and threats to the global economy.

The Bank applies this three-pronged approach across all sectors of development

so that countries make the integrated investments that can best help people lift

themselves out of poverty.




	                                    SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	        15
           I NCL USI V E, S US TAI NAB L E G ROW TH
            I feel a tremendous sense of urgency, not just because there are
           “
            enormous needs in the world. Aspirations are rising. And aspira-
            tions, linked to opportunity, can breed dynamism and inclusive,
            sustainable economic growth.” —JIM YONG KIM


        Accelerating the energy transition
        The World Bank is committed to helping countries ensure access to affordable,
        reliable, and sustainable energy for all. Energy is at the heart of development,
        complements investments in human capital, and makes possible the business
        activity, innovations, and new industries that are the engines of jobs and growth
        for entire economies.
             In fiscal 2018, the World Bank helped countries adopt emerging approaches
        to electricity service delivery and deploy technological innovations that have sub-
        stantially increased the number of households with service in a short amount of
        time. In Ethiopia, for example, a new $375 million program supports both on-grid
        and off-grid efforts, with a focus on connecting schools and clinics. In Rwanda,
        similar approaches have brought electricity to 1.2 million people, 80 percent of
        clinics, and 90 percent of schools. In Bangladesh, long-term efforts supported
        by the World Bank have brought electricity to 18.5 million people through the
        deployment of a world-record 1.4 million solar home systems, creating 70,000
        jobs in the process.
             The World Bank portfolio in energy access—particularly off-grid programs—is
        growing fast, with $500 million added in fiscal 2018 to an existing portfolio of
        $1.3 billion. Also growing is the portfolio of clean energy projects, particularly
        solar. Many of these projects are being delivered through innovative financial
        solutions. In Argentina, an additional $250 million IBRD guarantee will facilitate
        private investment to help the country to meet its goal of 20 percent renewable
        energy by 2025. In India, a partnership with the State Bank of India delivered 575
        megawatts in solar systems for homes and small businesses in just six months.
             The World Bank is also dedicated to delivering energy services in some of
        the most difficult and remote environments in the world. In Mexico, the Bank
        is financing solar “farms” to deliver electricity to the 3 percent of the country
        still without power—mostly indigenous people in remote, isolated areas. In the
        Republic of Yemen, the World Bank is working with an existing network of micro-
        finance institutions to deliver off-grid solar systems to rural and peri-urban areas.
        Another project is improving the efficiency of electricity distribution systems and
        piloting solar services in Gaza.


        Supporting the move to sustainable transport
        Transport is another crucial driver of economic and social development, connect-
        ing people to jobs, education, and health services; bringing opportunities for the
        poor; and making economies more competitive. The Bank is helping to finance
        innovative and sustainable transport infrastructure. For example, a $375 million
        IBRD loan for a national waterway project is helping India to revive the Ganga
        watercourse as a cheaper and greener mode of transport—water transport uses
        four times less fuel per freight ton than road transport, reducing emissions—
        while observing the river’s cultural importance.
            To be sustainable, transport must meet four essential goals: it should be acces-
        sible for all, green, safe, and efficient. To monitor progress toward these ends, the

16	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
World Bank–led Sustainable Mobility for All initiative launched the Global Mobility
Report in October 2017, the first assessment of how the transport sector performs
against these four major goals. With plans to update it every two years, the data
will enable governments to measure progress in how they provide sustainable
transport. In addition, this year the Bank signed a pioneering agreement with the
International Association of Public Transport to raise awareness of sexual harass-
ment in public transport worldwide, with the aim of reducing the incidence of
this impediment for women’s empowerment and inclusive transport.


Revolutionizing development with digital technologies
Digital technologies promote economic growth, citizen engagement, and job
creation, driving development and transforming economies with unprecedented
speed and scale. By 2020, the increased use of digital technologies could add
$1.4 trillion to total global economic output. The digital gap remains a formidable
challenge, however, as globally more than 4 billion people remain unconnected
to the internet. In Africa, only 22 percent of people have internet access and most
are unable to pay for goods and services digitally. To help address some of the
roadblocks, the World Bank launched the Digital Economy for Africa Initiative,
which will support African governments to work with the private sector in build-
ing the foundations of the digital economy, including infrastructure, platforms,
payments, skills, and entrepreneurship.
    Digital technologies are also bringing opportunities to help support develop-
ment in unique ways. The World Bank is leveraging technology to develop digital
platforms and solutions that can improve public service delivery and make gov-
ernments more open, effective, and accountable. In Tanzania, the Bank helped
the government use drones for geospatial mapping for flood preparedness, and
also supported the establishment of birth registration systems that provide base-
line data to help target anti-stunting programs. A $317 million IDA program sup-
ported by the Identification for Development partnership (ID4D) will help build
an inclusive ID system in the Economic Community of West African States, facili-
tating access to services. Eighty percent of the 1 billion people without official ID
live in Africa and South Asia.




	                                    SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	        17
        Investing in agribusiness to create inclusive growth
        Food demand is projected to rise to meet a growing and more urban popu-
        lation, even as natural capital is depleted and climate change adversely affects
        food production. This is a challenge, particularly in rural areas, where roughly 80
        percent of the extreme poor live and where many of the agricultural value chain
        activities—from farming to processing, trading, and distribution—take place. It is
        also an opportunity. By drawing on well-sequenced reforms, public and private
        sector investments, advisory services, and guarantees, the World Bank is working
        to transform the agriculture sector toward climate-smart agriculture, sustainable
        value chains, and more inclusive agribusiness models.
           In Côte d’Ivoire, for example, the World Bank is supporting efforts to bet-
        ter leverage the cashew nut value chain to generate about 12,000 direct jobs,
        of which 50 percent will be for women, and enhance the competitiveness and
        inclusiveness of about 225,000 cashew farmers. By promoting cashew research
        and seedling development, supporting extension services and technology trans-
        fers, and rehabilitating and maintaining feeder roads, World Bank support will
        help increase on-farm cashew productivity and access to markets. In addition,
        through a mix of interventions including dedicated financial facilities and strong
        collaboration with IFC, the project will attract private investment in postharvest
        and processing infrastructure to increase the volume and value addition of locally
        processed cashews.


        Achieving a water-secure world for all
        Access to safe water and sanitation and sound management of water resources
        are essential to human health, environmental sustainability, and economic pros-
        perity. To help countries achieve the vision of a water-secure world for all, the
        World Bank works with partners to ensure sustainable management of water
        resources and infrastructure, strengthen institutions to expand access to quality
        services, improve the financial viability of the water sector, and deliver resilient
        water services to adapt to shocks and stresses. For example, a $145 million IBRD
        project supported the rehabilitation and modernization of the Jinnah Barrage in
        Pakistan to provide a reliable water supply for over 2.1 million acres of farmland,
        benefiting about 600,000 families.
           The World Bank works to upgrade water infrastructure and services in some
        of the most challenging places. Despite the volatile environment, the World Bank
        supported the construction of the North Gaza Wastewater Treatment Plant,
        which is ready for operation. It will provide a long-term, sustainable wastewater
        management solution for over 400,000 people.
           In addition, the World Bank leverages its convening power to help countries
        find ways to accelerate solutions to the urgent water crisis. This year, the High-
        Level Panel on Water, co-convened by the Bank and the United Nations and com-
        prising 11 heads of state and a special adviser, delivered on its two-year mandate
        to champion a comprehensive, inclusive, and collaborative way of developing
        water resources and improving water and sanitation–related services. The out-
        come package offered a new agenda and recommendations for action: rethink-
        ing how to understand, value, and manage water as a precious resource, and
        catalyzing change and building partnerships to achieve the water-related goals
        of the 2030 sustainable development agenda.




18	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Managing resources effectively for long-term gain
As developing countries make the investments to grow their economies, it is
important to ensure that debt levels are sustainable and that domestic resources
are managed effectively. Good debt management is essential to economic devel-
opment over the long term. As increasing indebtedness is resurfacing as a risk
across emerging and developing economies, the World Bank is working with
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to help low-income countries achieve
their development goals without creating future debt problems. Together, the
institutions developed the Debt Sustainability Framework, a tool for countries,
     lateral institutions, and other creditors to assess risks to debt sustainability in
multi­
lower-income countries. This classification is used, in part, to determine the share
of grants and credits in IDA’s assistance to the country.
    The World Bank also continues to support the Addis Ababa framework that
calls for greater mobilization of domestic resources to finance development
investments. To ensure that governments have a sufficient revenue base to pro-
vide basic public services and support a stronger economy, research suggests
that countries need to collect at least 15 percent of GDP in taxes. Working with
the IMF, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and the
United Nations through the Platform for Collaboration on Tax, the Bank is devel-
oping tools and strategies for countries to increase their tax base, as well as engag-
ing directly with governments to help ensure the quality of public expenditures.


Removing barriers to mobilize private sector financing
Finding ways to sustainably leverage private sector resources can help preserve
public financing. Through lending, diagnostics, policy dialogue, and advisory
services, the World Bank addresses public sector risks and barriers to entry for
the private sector. Bank support for financial sector, legal, regulatory, and policy
reforms is aimed at creating an enabling environment for foreign and local pri-
vate sector investment. These engagements range from supporting sound fiscal

	                                      SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	         19
       Improving private sector involvement in infrastructure


       B   uilding modern, sustainable, and reliable infrastructure is critical for meeting
           the rising aspirations of billions of people around the globe. The World Bank
       takes an integrated approach to increasing and financing infrastructure services in
       developing countries, with a view toward greater access, affordability, and sustain-
       ability. Underpinning this work is the World Bank Group’s commitment to Maxi-
       mizing Finance for Development.
           World Bank support to infrastructure includes helping countries build the
       knowledge and capacity to design and implement quality public-private part-
       nerships (PPPs), when appropriate. In this vein, the Bank released its Procuring
       Infrastructure PPPs 2018 report, which benchmarked the regulatory framework
       of 135 economies against internationally recognized good practices. In addition,
       the Bank’s PPP Certification Program—which aims to enhance performance,
       build capacity, and ensure global good practices among PPP practitioners—also
       expanded this year with language versions in Chinese, French, and Spanish.
           One major factor hindering infrastructure implementation and delivery is
       the absence of good governance. This year, the World Bank—in coalition with
       other multilateral development banks and development partners—spearheaded
       a program of Regional Roundtables on Infrastructure Governance  to bring
       together government officials, the private sector, civil society, and others to
       address this core issue. Roundtables took place in Cape Town and Abidjan in
       fiscal 2018 and will move to Asia and Latin America next year.
           Supporting PPP project development, the Global Infrastructure Facility, a
       collaboration platform that facilitates private sector investment in complex
       emerging-market infrastructure projects, now boasts a strong portfolio of 38
       projects, which are expected to mobilize over $30 billion in total investment.
       In addition, the Bank also provides financing, which this year included support
       for the preparation of the second-round RenovAr tenders in Argentina. The
       $250 million IBRD guarantee complements the $480 million IBRD guarantee
       provided in 2017 and together they will help Argentina unlock its renewable
       energy potential by creating a market and mobilizing $5.5 billion of mostly
       private investments.

20	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
policy and macroeconomic management at the country level to microeconomic
reforms to improve the ease of doing business in a country.
    A $12 million IDA grant for The Gambia, for example, has led to measur-
able improvements in the business environment for entrepreneurs. The project
focused on the challenges faced by small businesses in two of the country’s larg-
est industries: small-scale agriculture and tourism. The project helped establish
an online business registration system, which cut the average registration time
from 27 days to 3. By the end of the project, more than 10,000 new enterprises
had registered.
    The World Bank is also collaborating with IFC to unlock access to long-term
financing in underserved markets. In the countries of the West Africa Economic
and Monetary Union (WAEMU), for example, access to affordable housing is a
growing concern. The World Bank and IFC embarked on a joint intervention
to expand the private mortgage market in WAEMU, working through the West
African regional mortgage refinance company (CRRH). IFC is providing an equity
investment of CFAF 1.2 billion ($2 million) in CRRH, while IDA financing is being
channeled into CRRH through the West African Development Bank. The IDA
package includes technical assistance to develop the enabling environment for
the construction of cheaper housing.


Creating more, better, and inclusive jobs
Jobs are key for economic and social development, and there are growing
demands for the World Bank Group’s policy and financial support, particularly
in the context of IDA18. The problems are not only related to unemployment; in
most client countries, average unemployment rates are low. Rather, it is inactivity
and underemployment that keep large numbers of households living in poverty,
as many of these jobs are in the informal sector or are low productivity activi-
ties. The three main jobs challenges most developing countries face to varying
degrees are: creating more jobs in the formal sector of the economy; increasing
the quality of informal jobs (e.g. productivity, earnings, access to social insurance,
etc.); and connecting vulnerable groups to jobs or to better jobs.
    The World Bank supports developing countries in the design and imple-
mentation of integrated, multisectoral job strategies. This is achieved through
a three-prong strategy. First, Jobs Diagnostics help client countries identify key
jobs challenges at the macro, firm, and household level. The diagnostics are being
mainstreamed in the World Bank Strategic Country Diagnostics, which inform the
World Bank’s Country Partnership Frameworks. Second, the World Bank helps
mobilize global knowledge to identify solutions to common jobs challenges. Last,
the Bank supports countries implementing job strategies through lending and
investment operations and policy reforms. As of April 2018, the World Bank has
578 active jobs-related projects, representing investments of about $76 billion.
Last year, these projects reached close to 2 million new beneficiaries. In addition,
the World Bank designs monitoring and evaluation tools to standardize how jobs
outcomes are measured in projects.
    In Nigeria, the State Employment and Expenditure for Results Project, with
$200 million in IDA funding, aims to enhance opportunities for employment
and access to socioeconomic services while improving public expenditure man-
agement systems in participating states. The project has employed over 16,000
youth, of whom 49 percent are young women, across four states through the
implementation of 277 sub-project contracts on road maintenance and rehabili-
tation and waste collection and disposal.


	                                     SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	        21
        Reaching the goal of universal financial access
        The world has made a great deal of progress on financial inclusion, but it remains
        a defining challenge for development. Between 201       1–17, collective efforts on
        financial inclusion, including the Universal Financial Access Initiative, led to 1.2
        billion new accountholders. Around the world, 69 percent of adults now have
        a bank account, up from 51 percent in 201    1, according to the latest Global Fin-
        dex data released in April 2018. The number of unbanked adults has fallen to
        1.7 billion, after accounting for population growth. Despite these global gains in
        financial inclusion, the gender gap in access to finance remains persistent at 9
        percentage points. Currently unbanked adults are also disproportionately poor,
        young, and tend to have low educational attainment.
            There are less than three years left to reach the Universal Financial Access
        (UFA) 2020 goal, a vision the World Bank announced in 2013 for all adults to have
        access to a transaction account. The Bank is on track to meet its UFA commitment
        of enabling 1 billion new accountholders to be reached by 2020, with World Bank
        Group technical assistance and financing operations currently anticipated to help
        reach 738 million new accountholders. To date, 33 private sector partners across
        the financial sector have signed on to help reach the UFA 2020 goal.


        Preparing for the economies of the future
        Disruptive technologies offer opportunities to developing countries, but only
        if countries are capable of taking advantage of them. Many countries lack the
        legal and regulatory frameworks and the skills and firms needed to harness
        technology’s potential. The World Bank is working with governments to identify
        constraints to technology-led development. The Public Expenditure Review for
        Science, Technology, and Innovation, for example, is a new diagnostic tool to
        help governments formulate appropriate strategies, adopt good practices, and
        improve coordination of innovation policies. The tool was piloted this year in
        Chile, Colombia, and Ukraine.
            The World Bank report, Trouble in the Making? The Future of Manufacturing-
        Led Development, explains how technology is changing the criteria for becoming
        a desirable manufacturing location. Companies once influenced by the prospect
        of inexpensive labor costs are beginning to favor locations that can better utilize
        technology. Countries are urged to focus on three dimensions: competitiveness,
        capabilities, and connectedness. This includes shifting from a focus on low wages
        to broader considerations of the business environment, the rule of law, and the
        use of technology to complete financial transactions to develop firm ecosystems;
        equipping workers with new skills, building stronger firms, and developing the
        necessary infrastructure to adopt new technologies; and improving logistics and
        lowering trade restrictions on manufactured goods and services.
            Countries will need to ensure that their economies are prepared for tomor-
        row’s technology. But they will also need to ensure that they are making the best
        investments in their people, so that they are prepared to participate as well.


        Building human capital—a project for the world
        For the past 25 years, humanity has experienced huge gains through invest-
        ments in people: more children are surviving their fifth birthdays and going to
        school, more poor people are protected by safety nets, and there is greater life
        expectancy globally. These are important gains, because building human capital
        is essential for competitiveness and growth. However, the world continues to face



22	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
    I NV EST I NG I N P E O P L E
     We always knew that investing in people is the right thing to do;
    “
     now we’re learning that, economically, it may very well be the
     smartest thing to do. . . . Investing in people is investing in
     economic growth. —JIM YONG KIM


a critical human capital gap. Hundreds of millions of children and youth are not
learning enough to prepare them for jobs of the future, weak health systems are
failing to provide universal health coverage, and four out of five poor people in
low-income countries still lack access to social safety nets. Moreover, technology is
changing the very nature of work, lending further urgency to ensure that quality
investments in people and their skills are made.
     To drive more and better investments in people, the World Bank’s new Human
Capital Project (HCP) will place human capital at the center of the global agenda
and Bank-client engagement, and employ the full range of World Bank services.
The HCP is developing a Human Capital Index in late 2018, which is intended to
stimulate awareness, prioritization, and action at the country level. This innovative,
international metric will reflect countries’ investments in the next generation, ini-
tially measuring survival (will children born today survive to school age?); school-
ing (how much will children complete and how much will they learn?); and health
(will they leave school in good health, ready for further learning and/or work?).


Securing the foundation for human capital
Investing in the first years of life is vital for economic development, given the
impact of nutrition and early stimulation on brain development and subsequent
adult productivity. The World Bank estimates that the average country would
have 7 percent more GDP per capita today if childhood stunting had been elim-
inated when today’s workers were children. The Bank has prioritized investment




	                                                                                        23
        in the early years as critical to securing the foundation for human capital, working
        closely with partners with the aim of scaling up investments in more than 30
        priority countries.
           For example, in Rwanda, where the government has made a public com-
        mitment to dramatically reduce stunting, the Bank has utilized $176 million
        in IDA and private sector grants to support cross-sectoral investments, with
        a special focus on the first 1,000 days of life. The innovative Rwanda pro-
        gram brings together supply-side nutrition interventions, demand-side condi-
        tional cash transfers, a focus on early childhood development, and a planned
        agriculture project. The World Bank has leveraged significant resources from
        the private sector through The Power of Nutrition, nearly $100 million of which
        has already been programmed across IDA projects in Ethiopia, Tanzania, Côte
        d’Ivoire, Madagascar, and Rwanda.


        Realizing the promise of education
        World Bank operations and technical work in education take an integrated
        approach to creating, supporting, and enhancing education systems that deliver
        learning for children, young adults, and those who need skills later in life. The Bank
        is also advancing the gathering and dissemination of evidence on what works
        based on rigorous impact evaluations. Shifting the emphasis in education from
        inputs to outcomes is helping strengthen education systems and improve results.
           The World Development Report 2018: Learning to Realize Education’s
        Promise has been timely in an era of rapid economic and social change. It points
        to a massive learning crisis affecting virtually all developing countries, underscor-
        ing that schooling without learning is both a wasted opportunity and a great
        injustice. Learning-adjusted years of schooling—a means for interpreting the pro-
        ductivity of an education system—is an important new measure that has emerged
        following this report. New data now show that children in low-performing coun-
        tries acquire, on average, about five years less schooling than those in the highest-
        performing countries.
           President Kim’s 2015 commitment at the World Education Forum to double
        World Bank results-based financing in education from $2.5 billion to $5 billion by
        2020 has been achieved in half the time, with more than $7.1 billion committed
        as of June 30, 2018, signaling increasing client-country demand for stronger edu-
        cation systems and for the results that matter in education. The World Bank works
        with countries to ensure that funds are appropriately directed and spent smartly
        across regions and schools.
           Ensuring that vulnerable girls can go to secondary school is another founda-
        tional investment in human capital. The World Bank has already fulfilled a key
        education commitment—to invest $2.5 billion over five years in education proj-
        ects directly benefiting adolescent girls. More than $4.0 billion has been invested
        since 2016, three years ahead of schedule. The investments, largely concentrated
        across Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, are helping provide adolescent girls
        with access to quality education at the secondary level, and ensuring they remain
        in school using scholarships, conditional cash transfers, and basic school facilities.
        In Lebanon, for example, the Bank is working with the government to promote
        equitable access to education, with a focus on girls and refugees, while in Tan-
        zania, it is boosting girls’ enrollment by making schools affordable, reducing the
        time and distance to school, and providing teacher training on ways to reduce
        gender-based violence.



24	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Pursuing universal health coverage and innovative
financing for health
Working with partners, the World Bank has focused its health investments and
research in areas that are especially vital to helping countries achieve universal
health coverage by 2030. Some of these areas include ending preventable mater-
nal and child mortality, reducing child stunting, strengthening health systems
and health financing, ensuring pandemic preparedness and response, promoting
sexual and reproductive health and rights, and preventing and treating commu-
nicable diseases.
    In December 2017, new data published by the World Bank and the World
Health Organization in the Tracking Universal Health Coverage: 2017 Global
Monitoring Report highlighted alarming gaps in the health and well-being of the
global population that have serious implications for human capital and the eco-
nomic prospects of countries. Currently, half the world’s population lacks access
to essential health services. Furthermore, 800 million people spend at least 10
percent of their household budgets on health expenses. For nearly 100 million
people, these expenses are high enough to push them into extreme poverty. The
report was launched during the Universal Health Coverage Forum in Tokyo, which
was co-organized by the Bank to drive increased political commitment and accel-
erate progress toward universal health coverage by 2030. High-level speakers at
the Forum included World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim, Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe, United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, WHO
Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, and UNICEF Executive Director
Anthony Lake, as well as heads of state and ministers from over 30 countries.
    Ensuring that every woman, child, and adolescent has access to health care
and nutrition is fundamental to building human capital. The Global Financing
Facility (GFF), an innovative country-driven financing platform hosted by the
World Bank Group, is working toward this goal. Linked to IDA and IBRD, it gen-
erates a large return on investment for countries. As of June 2018, 20 projects
totaling $3.3 billion in World Bank financing and supported by $452 million in
GFF Trust Fund grants have been approved by the World Bank. For example, in
Cameroon, which has one of the highest maternal mortality ratios in the world
and where under-five mortality remains extremely high in the country’s north,
the government is using the GFF to help serve neglected people and places with
increased child vaccination, maternal immunization against tetanus, family plan-
ning, and access to quality essential health and nutrition services.


Promoting universal social protection coverage to reduce
human capital gaps
Social protection systems promote human capital development from the early
years to adulthood by investing in the health and education of children, connect-
ing people to jobs, and protecting the elderly and other vulnerable population.
By supporting families’ human capital investments while increasing household
consumption, social protections help to reduce poverty. The State of Social
Safety Nets, published by the Bank in April 2018, shows that over a third of very
poor people receiving social safety net benefits in 79 countries escaped extreme
poverty. The report helps benchmark where countries and regions stand in terms
of social safety net spending, key performance indicators, and the impact on
reducing poverty and inequality.




	                                    SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	     25
       Investing in gender equity to ensure opportunities for all


       T    he World Bank Group Gender Strategy focuses on four key areas to support
            countries in achieving greater gender equality: improving human endow-
       ments which is essential to build human capital; removing barriers to women’s
       ownership and control of assets; removing constraints for more and better jobs;
       and enhancing women’s voice and agency.
           Helping countries to remove barriers to women’s ownership and control of
       productive assets such as land and housing, as well as to improve access to the
       finance, technology, and insurance services needed to make assets productive,
       is vital for women’s economic opportunities. Supporting these efforts, the Bank
       Group launched the groundbreaking Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative
       (We-Fi), which aims to mobilize more than $1 billion to unlock finance, markets,
       and information constraints faced by women-owned small and medium enter-
       prises in developing countries. We-Fi is an example of how the Bank Group is
       mobilizing finance from the private sector and ensuring that the public-sector
       tackles policy and regulatory barriers. The initiative has already catalyzed inter-
       est from banks and financial institutions in Africa, India, and Germany, who
       recognize that investment in women is good for their bottom line.
           The Bank is also providing project support to countries to remove such bar-
       riers. In Ethiopia, for example, the Women’s Entrepreneurship Development
       Program is piloting the use of modern technologies, including psychometric
       testing and data-driven algorithms, to help unlock access to formal finance for
       women business owners. Psychometric testing measures characteristics such as
       knowledge, skills, education, abilities, attitudes, and personality traits to predict
       the likelihood that a person will pay back a loan. Women entrepreneurs who do
       not have collateral are able to take an interactive test on a tablet computer that
       predicts their likelihood to repay. If they score highly, they can borrow without
       traditional collateral.
           The Bank is also focused on increasing women’s voice and representation
       in society and in key economic sectors. The IDA-financed Bihar Transforma-
       tive Development Project, the second phase of rural livelihoods support in
       one of India’s poorest states, fosters the development of women’s self-help
       groups, which serve as an important platform for amplifying women’s voice.
       Such groups are important platforms for communication and learning among
       women, and have been used to drive behavioral changes in community health
       and hygiene practices and to connect women with national nutrition and sani-
       tation programs. They have also helped women from 7.5 million households to
       access financial services and generate income in the farm and non-farm sectors,
       with a further 4.5 million households expected to participate by 2022.
           In addition to these efforts, the institution targeted constraints to more and
       better jobs for women, focusing especially on reducing occupational sex segre-
       gation, enhancing skills training, improving the safety and accessibility of trans-
                                               port services, and providing services for
                                               child and elder care. Efforts are also being
                                               undertaken in fragile and conflict-affected
                                               areas and include engaging men and boys
                                               to tackle challenges related to child mar-
                                               riage, gender-based violence, and adverse
                                               social norms.
                                                   The World Bank is leading by example
                                               on its commitment to gender equality. For
                                               instance, it is implementing an action plan
                                               on recommendations received in July 2017
                                               from the Task Force on Sexual Exploitation
                                               and Abuse, to strengthen interventions to
                                               reduce gender-based violence in World
                                               Bank infrastructure operations.



26	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
    The report also shows that only 45 percent of the global population are cov-
ered by social protections, while only one in five poor people have access to
social protections in the poorest countries. The World Bank is committed to sup-
porting social protections and helping countries to develop national social pro-
tection systems to substantially cover the poor and the vulnerable by 2030. At
the seventh Ministerial Roundtable on Social Safety Nets in April 2018, ministers
of finance and economy and other officials gathered to reaffirm the importance
of social safety nets in building the resilience of poor and vulnerable households,
thereby protecting human capital.
    By the end of fiscal 2018, the World Bank had 87 active social protection
and labor projects, representing investments of $15 billion. In Rwanda, for exam-
ple, the Bank has supported more than 500,000 new extreme poor beneficia-
ries with cash transfers that promoted social protection system development and
improved investments in early childhood development, nutrition, and education,
as well as productive activities by families. In Bangladesh, the Bank supports cash
transfer programs for vulnerable populations, including the elderly, widowed, and
persons with disabilities, and is helping to expand the coverage of social protec-
tion programs to 6 million poor people by 2023.
    Developing strong, inclusive economies and ensuring that all people can par-
ticipate to their fullest potential will help position countries for a brighter future.
Yet severe threats to development remain, which, if not addressed, could roll back
decades of economic progress and poverty reduction gains.



    BUI L DI NG R ES I L I ENC E
     [O]ne thing that for us at the [World] Bank in this world of
    “
     fragilities is most important, more important than anything . . .
     it is the success of collective action. Working together, working as
     one community.” —KRISTALINA GEORGIEVA



Managing natural resources for current and future
generations
Natural resources are under threat globally, from dwindling fish stocks and eroded
coastlines, to unhealthy air and degraded landscapes. The World Bank is working
with its clients to better manage land, sea, and freshwater natural resources. Pol-
lution caused an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015 alone. The World
Bank is working with clients to address pollution and increasing its support for
environmental quality data and monitoring, particularly for air quality. In Ulaan-
baatar, Mongolia’s capital and a heavily polluted city, the Bank’s $15 million inter-
vention supported the installation of energy-efficient stoves and boilers, which
helped improve air quality with a 60-70 percent reduction in particulate concen-
tration. Another Bank priority is creating sustainable ocean economies. In West
Africa, where about 42 percent of the region’s GDP is generated in coastal areas,
a new regional project is helping to build the resilience of communities that are
particularly vulnerable to the effects of poor coastal development, erosion, and fre-
quent flooding. The $210 million West Africa Coastal Areas Resilience Investment
Project will protect against coastal erosion through a range of activities, including
fixing dunes, restoring wetlands and mangroves, replenishing beaches, and build-
ing seawalls and dikes. The projects in Mongolia and West Africa are guided by the
Bank’s safeguard policies, which address environmental and social risks.


	                                     SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	         27
           The World Bank is also working with countries to think of wealth in terms
        beyond GDP and put a value on their natural resources. A new publication, The
        Changing Wealth of Nations 2018, tracked the natural wealth of 141 countries
        over 20 years and recognized the contribution to the economy of assets like for-
        ests, wetlands, and agricultural land. The use of natural capital accounting puts
        countries in a better position to make policy and investment choices that will
        boost economic growth and support sustainable development.


        Acting in the face of a changing climate
        Ranked as the second warmest year on record, 2017 underscored the severe
        impacts that climate change is already bringing. Floods in South Asia, severe
        drought in Africa, and devastating hurricanes in the Caribbean came at an enor-
        mous cost to lives, property, and economies. As extreme events like these become
        more frequent and more severe, slow-onset climate impacts such as sea level rise,
        water scarcity, and crop failure are also forcing people to leave their homes in
        increasing numbers. According to the World Bank report Groundswell: Preparing
        for Internal Climate Migration, by 2050, more than 143 million people in Sub-
        Saharan Africa, Latin America, and South Asia could be forced to move within
        their own countries in search of less vulnerable places to live.
           The World Bank is continuing to support countries to meet their climate
        change commitments under the Paris Agreement, actively working with countries
        to help them deliver on their Nationally Determined Contributions by translating
        their pledges into specific policies, and providing knowledge sharing, technical
        assistance, and financing. The Bank is moving quickly toward meeting its targets
        under its Climate Change Action Plan, such as its commitment to increase climate
        financing to 28 percent of the Bank Group’s portfolio by 2020. In fiscal 2018, the
        World Bank Group committed $20.5 billion to over 450 climate-related projects,
        which accounts for 32.1 percent of the total lending volume. Since the launch of
        the Climate Change Action Plan, this increased financing for climate action has
        driven strong results and contributed to 18 gigawatts of new renewable energy
        generation or integration in developing countries, supported 22 climate-smart
        agriculture investment plans for 20 countries, and enabled 38 million people in 18
        countries to have access to reliable weather data and early warning systems so that
        they are prepared for and safe from natural disasters, among other investments.


        Building resilience proactively into cities and societies
        Resilience against global shocks and threats can be built into the structures of
        cities and societies with careful planning and proactive forethought. Globally, 54
        percent of the population lives in urban areas today, and by 2045, the number of
        people expected to live in cities will increase by 1.5 times to 6 billion. The Bank’s
        work in urban development aims to build sustainable cities and communities
        through an urbanization process that is inclusive, resilient and low carbon, pro-
        ductive, and livable. The Bank’s City Resilience Program, for example, is an effort
        to assist city governments in building greater resilience to climate and disaster
        risk. The program works to provide the technical expertise or access to financ-
        ing that cities sometimes lack to make the necessary and costly investments to
        strengthen their urban resilience. It will achieve this by leveraging the Bank’s
        expertise and assisting cities to expand access to capital. Since launching in June
        2017, the program has engaged with 45 cities across the world on developing
        investment programs in resilient infrastructure.


28	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Partnering to affirm climate change commitments

T    he World Bank partners with governments, the United Nations, and the private
     sector to accelerate progress in the fight against climate change. The One
Planet Summit, a collaboration between the Government of France, the United
Nations, and the World Bank, which took place in December 2017 to mark the
two-year anniversary of the signing of the Paris Agreement, was a prime example
of this.
    The gathering of heads of state from more than 50 countries, UN orga-
nizations, private sector CEOs, mayors, philanthropists, and researchers called
on participants to go further in their own climate change commitments, and
provided a forum to mobilize badly needed finance for climate action. Speaking
alongside President Emmanuel Macron of France and United Nations Secretary-
General António Guterres, President Kim announced several new World Bank
and IFC climate commitments. Among them, the World Bank Group will report
greenhouse gas emissions from the investment projects it finances in key emis-
sions-producing sectors, such as energy, starting in 2018. Additionally, after
2019 the World Bank Group will no longer finance upstream oil and gas, other
than in exceptional circumstances.
    A key theme of the summit was the power of the private sector to fight
climate change by providing the innovation, financing, and tools required for
a transition to a low-carbon economy. Investors from top asset managers, pen-
sions funds, insurers, and sovereign wealth funds joined the Climate Action
100+ to encourage companies to cut greenhouse gas emissions and improve
the disclosure and oversight of climate-related threats, while another 225 finan-
cial institutions made additional climate pledges.
    In addition, the World Bank and its partners launched or renewed a series
of climate initiatives that aim to improve disaster resilience and advance cli-
mate action worldwide, including a new partnership to finance urban resilience
between the World Bank’s City Resilience Program and the Global Covenant of
Mayors for Climate & Energy, as well as the Africa Hydromet Program, a commit-
ment to raise at least $100 million annually through 2024 in new, direct invest-
ments annually for hydromet modernization in 15 countries and four regional
climate centers in Africa.




	                                  SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	      29
           Over the past decade, the Bank has emerged as the global leader in disaster
        risk management (DRM), supporting client countries in assessing exposure to
        hazards and addressing disaster risks. The Bank provides technical and financial
        support for risk assessments, risk reduction, preparedness, financial protection,
        and resilient recovery and reconstruction, and all World Bank-supported proj-
        ects are now screened for climate and disaster risk to ensure that they build the
        resilience of people on the ground. Over the past six years, annual World Bank
        DRM investment has increased from $3.7 billion in fiscal 2012 to $5.3 billion in
        fiscal 2018, or 11 percent of total Bank commitments. In providing support for
        DRM, the Bank promotes a comprehensive, multisectoral approach to managing
        disaster risk.
           The World Bank’s social development programs are another way to help build
        resilience into society. The Bank’s support spans all sectors and areas of its work,
        promoting social inclusion of the poor and vulnerable by empowering people,
        building cohesive and resilient societies, and making institutions accessible and
        accountable to citizens. These programs are supported by analysis to make sure
        Bank lending operations benefit the poor and vulnerable in the countries it
        serves. In addition, the Bank continues to mainstream citizen engagement across
        its portfolio of operations, and has an active portfolio of projects on commu-
        nity empowerment and community-driven development, an approach that gives
        control over planning decisions and investment resources for local development
        projects to community groups.


        Building household resilience and responding to shocks
        The World Bank is increasingly helping countries to develop systems for respond-
        ing to crises by utilizing risk modeling and mapping, strengthening early warn-
        ing systems, ensuring financial protection are in place before a shock hits, and
        investing in adaptive social protection systems that ensure households are pre-
        pared for crises and social protection systems are ready to respond. Such crises
        response systems allow governments to identify people who are vulnerable to
        becoming poorer in the face of a shock, what their recovery needs may be, and
        how to finance and deliver support to them in times of crisis. This year, the Bank
        supported the sharing of experience in developing such systems through the
        South-South Learning Forum on “Building Resilience through Adaptive Social
        Protection.” More than 250 participants, including government officials from 68
        client countries, attended the February 2018 forum.
           The World Bank is supporting countries in bolstering social protection sys-
        tems in challenging environments. For example, the Bank supported the Ethi-
        opia Rural Productive Safety Net Program, which includes innovative linkages
        to disaster and humanitarian responses through government-run social protec-
        tion systems. The Bank is also supporting adaptive social protection systems
        across the Sahel region, including the ability to scale up to respond to shocks
        and climate responsive transfers in Burkina Faso. In partnership with the United
        Nations, the Bank is helping Yemen to use its existing social protection systems
        to help households cope with ongoing conflict there. An innovative IDA-IFC joint
        project in Côte d’Ivoire is a good example of World Bank Group social protection
        work in action. It is helping expand  social protection coverage by leveraging
        innovations in technology. Vulnerable households are receiving cash transfer
        grants from the government through mobile money technology. About 210,000
        individuals from poor households have benefited from mobile money accounts
        and digital cash payments. 


30	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Increasing support to fragile and conflict-affected places


P   overty and fragility are increasingly interlinked. By 2030, projections show that
    between 43 and 60 percent of the world’s extreme poor will live in settings
marked by fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV), and serious risks such as violent
extremism, climate change, pandemics, and food insecurity are on the rise.
    The World Bank Group is scaling up efforts to maximize its impact in FCV
situations. As a top development priority, the Bank Group is doubling resources
for FCV-affected countries to more than $14 billion under the 18th replenish-
ment of IDA. New financing mechanisms include $2 billion to support refugees
and host communities, $2.5 billion to spur private enterprise, and a Risk-
Mitigation Regime that supports proactive initiatives to help countries mit-
igate fragility risks. Efforts this fiscal year focused on quickly operationaliz-
ing these new windows. For the IDA18 Refugee Sub-Window, eligibility was
established for nine countries that collectively host more than 62 percent of
refugees located in IDA and IBRD/IDA blend countries. Cameroon became the
first country to benefit from the window, with the approval of $130 million
in grants in May 2018 to help provide refugees and host communities with
access to health care, education, social safety nets, and social and economic
infrastructure. The Bank is also helping to address the needs of Rohingya ref-
ugees in Bangladesh through an additional $50 million supported in part by
the window to an existing Health Sector Support Project, with contributions
from the Government of Canada. This is the first in a package of support that
could total as much as $480 million designed to improve education, promote
skills development, and provide basic services, including water and sanitation,
for refugees in a phased manner.
    The global prevalence of fragility has long been characterized by a flat,
unbending line. The World Bank aims to turn the flat line into a sharp, down-
ward curve. To that end, the World Bank, in partnership with the United Nations,
is working to refocus the international community’s attention toward preven-
tion. In March 2018, the two institutions published the joint report, Pathways
for Peace: Inclusive Approaches to Preventing Violent Conflict, which estimated
that violent conflict costs up to $13.6 trillion per year globally. According to the
study, prevention could save up to $70 billion annually.




	                                    SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	        31
        Responding quickly to disease outbreaks
        A severe pandemic can cause millions of deaths and significant losses of global
        GDP. World Bank investments support expanding the pandemic preparedness
        capacity of country health systems to halt disease outbreaks before they become
        pandemics. Under the IDA18 program, these investments will be made in at least
        25 countries, along with pandemic preparedness investments in several IBRD
        countries. In addition, the Bank’s support to the International Working Group on
        Financing Preparedness, as well as its leadership in engaging policy makers—
        country finance ministers, in particular—on several pandemic simulations, have
        helped drive home the importance of investing in pandemic preparedness.
           In the event of severe outbreaks or pandemics, the Pandemic Emergency
        Financing Facility (PEF) will enable the Bank to engage with a rapid and early
        response. Supported by the World Health Organization, the private sector, and
        donors such as Japan, Germany, and Australia, the PEF is the first-ever form of
        pandemic insurance, using an innovative combination of public and private
        financing, including from capital markets. The PEF, which consists of both a cash
        and insurance component, became operational in July 2017 for an initial three-
        year period and now covers all 77 IDA countries with pandemic insurance at no
        cost. In May 2018, the PEF made the first commitment from its cash window in
        the form of a $12 million grant to bridge the financing gap for the Ebola response
        in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The quick disbursement of these resources
        helped the government to focus their efforts on the immediate response to the
        crisis, rather than raising funds.




32	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
     WO R KI NG ACRO S S AL L S E C TO RS
      We have to be the institution that integrates across all our different
     “
      areas and provides enormous value to our member countries.”
                                                                 —JIM YONG KIM




     In all of the areas described above, the World Bank strives to bring the best
development solutions to its clients. But the unique strength of the World Bank
is its ability to combine expertise from many sectors to help countries design,
finance, and implement sustainable projects that provide more benefits and
make a greater impact. In providing such interdependent and multisectoral solu-
tions, the Bank helps to realize sustainable outcomes while responding to local,
country, and regional priorities.
     In Bangladesh, for example, the Bank is supporting projects that are working
to improve the country’s transport connectivity, but that also have broader effects
because of the integration of multiple sector approaches. The ongoing $360
million commitment to the Regional Waterway Transport Project will improve the
navigability of 900 kilometers of inland waterways along the Chittagong-Dhaka-
Ashuganj Corridor and connecting routes, incorporating solutions from the Bank’s
expertise in transport, but also trade, the environment, and infrastructure to help
reduce travel time and costs for cargo and passengers and to sustainably boost
national and regional trade. The project also supports improvements to social
inclusivity by developing key river ports to include safe, sanitary, and female-
friendly facilities such as bathrooms and waiting rooms. Similarly, the $150 mil-
lion Regional Connectively Project will modernize trade-related infrastructure,
systems, and procedures to increase Bangladesh’s connectivity and trade with
India, Bhutan, and Nepal. With improvements to key land ports, the investments
will increase trade volumes and reduce clearance time at border posts. In addition
to the trade, transport, and infrastructure solutions that comprise this project, the
investments will also incorporate a perspective informed by gender issues. The
project will pilot activities to help remove bottlenecks faced by women in trade
and business, as well as skills development programs to bring more women trad-
ers into formal trade networks and global value chains. The insights gained from
this project will help to develop specific infrastructure, logistics, and transport
services for women in the future.
     As these projects demonstrate, by leveraging the collective knowledge base
of the institution, as well as the lessons learned from its operations and the expe-
riences of country members, the World Bank provides layered solutions for the
projects it supports. Integrating an environmental perspective into an infrastruc-
ture project or a gender-informed perspective into a trade project allows the
Bank to facilitate development impacts that are greater than the sum of their
parts and that can endure. As the Bank continues its work along the path toward
meeting its goals, it will continue to develop diverse perspectives and innovative
ideas as part of the support it offers to country clients to help them meet their
development needs.



    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/topics.




	                                    SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	        33
        Innovative Finance for
        Development Solutions




        Through global capital markets, IBRD has been mobilizing finance for its client
        countries for over 70 years, leveraging $16 billion in paid-in capital from its
        shareholders to fund over $600 billion in projects and programs that help client
        countries address development priorities around the world. The World Bank lever-
        ages IBRD’s triple-A rating and strong standing in the markets to cost-effectively
        raise between $45 and $55 billion annually to support the Bank’s sustainable
        development mandate, to develop innovative financial tools that support global
        development priorities, and to help clients manage risk and build resilience.


        Raising private capital for the poorest countries
        In April 2018, IDA made its debut in the global capital markets for the first time
        in its nearly 60-year history, leveraging its strong financial position and triple-A
        rating. IDA’s inaugural bond—a $1.5 billion, five-year US-dollar benchmark issue—
        received strong reception in the market, with total orders reaching $4.6 billion
        from around the world. The bond pioneers a new model for development finance
        that combines funding from donors with funding raised in the capital markets,
        increasing IDA’s lending capacity in IDA18 by 50 percent.
           Going forward, IDA will continue to grow its borrowing program to raise
        funds that complement donor contributions, enabling it to expand its life-
        changing investments in the poorest countries. 


        Catalyzing a transformation toward sustainable
        capital markets
        The World Bank is a leader in mobilizing private investment for development
        through the capital markets. Since issuing the first IBRD bond in 1947, the Bank
        has been a key promoter of unique capital market instruments that give the
        private sector the opportunity to engage in global development priorities. The
        World Bank is one of the largest issuers of green bonds, for example, which tap
        capital markets to support climate-related projects. Since issuing the first labeled
        green bond in 2008, the Bank has issued $11 billion equivalent through more
        than 140 transactions in 19 currencies. In April 2018, the Bank issued its first
        green bond denominated in Hong Kong dollars (HK$ 1 billion).
           The World Bank also supports country efforts to build green bond markets.
        Through this work, the Bank helps clients demonstrate leadership on sustain-
        ability and climate action, while offering investors an opportunity to support



34	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
development solutions that address climate change. The Bank’s work in this area
is driving growth and innovation. In fiscal 2018, the Bank identified the oppor-
tunity to leverage the world’s biggest Shari’ah-compliant debt market (Malaysia)
to combine the sukuk (Islamic Bond) and the green bond into a new financial
instrument for climate finance: the green sukuk. With technical assistance from
the Bank, Tadau Energy, a solar energy company in Malaysia, issued the first
green sukuk in the world in July 2017, raising RM 250 million to finance a
50-megawatt solar photovoltaic power plant. Following this successful demon-
stration, four green sukuk and one green bond were issued by Malaysian
companies, and Indonesia issued the first sovereign green sukuk in the world.
    The World Bank, working with IFC, assisted Fiji in becoming the first emerging
market issuer of a sovereign green bond (F$ 100 million) in the world. The Bank
also provided technical assistance for Nigeria to issue the first African sovereign
green bond (N 10.69 billion). In addition, the Bank supported the development
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Green Bond Standards and the
Indonesia Financial Services Authority Green Bond Regulations.
    Building on the evolution of the green bond market and a growing demand
from investors for opportunities to make a positive impact, the World Bank has
broadened its offerings of sustainable investing instruments. In January 2018,
IBRD issued a bond to raise awareness for how empowering women and girls
is one of the most effective ways to accelerate economic development, reduce
poverty, and build sustainable societies around the world. The bond raised Can$
1 billion from institutional investors in the Canadian dollar market. In Febru-
ary, the World Bank issued a $350 million private placement with the Folksam
Group to raise awareness for four Sustainable Development Goals—good health
and well-being, gender equality, responsible consumption and production, and
climate action—that anchor Folksam’s sustainability strategy. The World Bank is
also promoting the transition toward sustainable capital markets through its part-
nership with Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund. The partnership aims
to identify and address the challenges in greater Environmental, Social, and Gover-
nance (ESG) integration—such as insufficient data and disparate standards—with
the broader goal of directing more capital toward sustainable investments.


Building resilience with disaster insurance and
risk transfer solutions
The World Bank is the largest provider of risk insurance for countries. By inter-
mediating between client countries and the capital markets and through direct
World Bank bond and over-the-counter derivative transactions, the Bank is
helping countries build resilience against risks from natural disasters, pandemic
disease outbreaks, and other destabilizing risks. Risk transfer coverage provides
protection to governments, without increasing public debt, and is an important
complement to other sources of funding, including emergency funds, budget
reserves, credit lines, and international aid. To date, the Bank has provided clients
with $3.9 billion in coverage against catastrophe, weather, and health risks.  
    In fiscal 2018, the Bank issued a $360 million catastrophe bond for Mexico
to cover earthquakes and hurricanes, and provided $206 million local currency
catastrophe insurance coverage for 25 provinces in the Philippines against losses
from major typhoons and earthquakes. There have been two payouts under these
programs this fiscal year. Mexico received a $150 million payout following the
powerful 8.2 magnitude earthquake that struck in September 2017. In December



	                             INNOVATIVE FINANCE FOR DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS 	            35
        2017, Typhoon Vinta triggered a partial payout of PHP 83.5 million ($1.6 million)
        to the province of Davao del Sur in the Philippines. In June 2018, the Bank issued
        a $1.3 billion catastrophe bond to protect each of Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and
        Peru against potential losses from earthquakes. This marked the largest sovereign
        risk insurance transaction ever and establishes the World Bank as the largest pro-
        vider of sovereign risk insurance.


        Helping clients to manage public debt
        When governments and other public entities need financing for development
        investments, borrowing is one of the available options. Ensuring that publicly
        held debt does not undermine development objectives requires sound manage-
        ment practices. Effective, strategic, and efficient public debt management is the
        cornerstone of financial stability and sustainable fiscal policy.
           In fiscal 2018, the World Bank worked with 38 federal and subnational debt
        management offices in 33 countries across all regions of the world, helping
        governments build institutional capacity in all areas required for effective man-
        agement of government debt. During fiscal 2018, the World Bank’s debt manage-
        ment advisory services reached more than 500 debt management practitioners
        in different countries through webinars, workshops and forums, online commu-
        nication and virtual peer groups, and in-person meetings to build and manage
        long-term relationships with debt managers in partner countries. The World Bank
        also provides a repository of knowledge in the form of research reports and pub-
        lications to stimulate discussions and further research.
           Going forward, the World Bank will continue to use capital market innovations
        to finance sustainable development, to serve clients through advisory services
        and risk management projects, and to maximize the resources available to help
        countries to invest in their own development needs.



         For more information, visit treasury.worldbank.org.




36	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Promoting Development through
Research, Analysis, and Data



Knowledge is critical to development. The World Bank focuses on evidence-based
development solutions and provides global insights for solving development
challenges through reports and publications, in-depth analytic services, and
freely available development data.


Researching today’s most pressing topics
The World Bank promotes development through its knowledge products, which
include flagship reports, research papers, databases, and global indicators.
Broader access to research and data allows policy makers and advocacy groups to
make better-informed decisions and measure improvements more accurately. In
fiscal 2018 the Bank published several significant reports, including:


•  
   World Development Report 2018: Learning to
    Realize Education’s Promise. Each year, the World
    Development Report features a topic of crucial impor-
    tance to global development. The 2018 edition—the
    40th in the series—was the first ever devoted entirely
    to education. According to the report, despite mas-
    sive global gains in access to education, recent learn-
    ing assessments reveal that many children around
    the world are leaving school unequipped with even
    foundational literacy and numeracy skills, let alone the
    higher-order skills needed for the 21st century. Across many low- and middle-
    income countries, skills lag far behind what those countries aspire to. The report
    uses new data to diagnose what’s causing this learning crisis and how to tackle
    it. It proposes starting with learning metrics and evidence-based programs
    to make schools work for learners, and urges countries to overcome stubborn
    system-level technical and political barriers to learning.

•  
   Doing Business 2018: Reforming to Create Jobs.
    Doing Business compares the business regulations in
    190 economies to provide data for governments to
    help design sound business regulatory policies and
    to encourage research on the important dimensions
    of regulatory environments for firms. The report ranks
    economies on their overall “ease of doing business”
    and analyzes reforms to business regulation—identify-
    ing which economies are strengthening their business




	           PROMOTING DEVELOPMENT THROUGH RESEARCH, ANALYSIS, AND DATA 	                 37
          environment. The annual rankings have served to spur countries to under-
          take useful reforms that help create fair, efficient, and transparent rules for the
          domestic private sector. In the 15 years of its existence, more than 3,100 business
          reforms have been carried out by governments around the world to make it
          easier for domestic small and medium enterprises to start, operate, and expand.

        •  
           Women, Business, and the Law 2018. This report
           measures gender inequality in the law. Its dataset
           identifies barriers to women’s economic participa-
           tion and encourages the reform of discriminatory
           laws. The report—now in its fifth edition—introduces
           scoring to better inform the reform agenda, tracks
          progress made over the past two years, and identifies
          opportunities to ensure economic empowerment
          for all. It notes that governments in 65 economies
          took steps to improve women’s economic inclusion,
          enacting 87 legal reforms during the past two years. However, women continue
          to face widespread barriers, entrenched in laws, that keep them out of jobs and
          prevent them from owning a business by restricting their access to credit or
          control over marital property.

        •  
           Global Economic Prospects. This semi-annual flag-
           ship report, published in January and June, analyzes
           economic developments and prospects globally,
           regionally, and nationally. Each edition contains
           special focus reports on economic developments
           relevant to policy making and planning. Global Eco-
           nomic Prospects, June 2018: The Turning of the Tide?
           noted that despite recent softening, global economic
           growth was forecast to remain robust this year. How-
           ever, growth is expected to decelerate over 2019 and
           2020 as global slack dissipates, trade and investment moderate, and financing
           conditions tighten. The report recommends policies to rebuild buffers and
           accelerate reforms to boost competitiveness, adapt to technological change,
           and promote trade openness. Risks to the global economic outlook included
           the possibility of financial market disruptions, rising trade protectionism, and
           heightened geopolitical tensions.


         For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/research.




        Employing Advisory Services and Analytics:
        Technical advice on specific challenges
        The World Bank’s Advisory Services and Analytics (ASA)—that is, the Bank’s non-
        lending activities—are a vital part of how it contributes to development. Member
        countries use the Bank’s technical advice and analysis to develop or implement
        better policies, programs, and reforms that help to sustain development over the
        long term.
            In fiscal 2018, the World Bank produced 1,476 ASA products in over 141 coun-
        tries. These products ranged from reports on key economic and social issues to
        knowledge-sharing workshops, policy notes, and implementation action plans.
        The analysis often underpins partnership frameworks, government programs,


38	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
and projects supported by World Bank lending and guarantees. In East Asia and
Pacific, for example, the Bank is providing technical support to several countries
to increase climate adaptation and resilience in order to reduce climate risks that
impact people and livelihoods.
    Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS), another form of ASA, are customized
advisory services requested and paid for by country clients. The World Bank has
around 175 active RAS engagements in 45 countries across its six regions, with
119 delivered in 33 countries in fiscal 2018. Through such services, the World
Bank serves all its member states, including nonborrowing countries.


    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/asa.




Data for development: A global good
The World Bank also recognizes that transparency and accountability are essential
to the development process and central to achieving the Bank’s mission to alleviate
poverty. The Bank’s commitment to openness is also driven by a desire to foster
public ownership, partnership, and participation in development from a wide range
of stakeholders. As a knowledge institution, the World Bank is proud to share its
knowledge freely and openly. Statistics and data are a key part of that knowledge
and are easily accessible through the World Bank’s Open Data website for all users.
The World Development Indicators is the primary World Bank collection of develop-
ment indicators, compiled from officially recognized international sources. It pres-
ents the most current and accurate global development data available and includes
estimates at the national, regional, and global levels.
     The World Bank has also taken on the mission of working with its client countries
to ensure all of them have data that serves as evidence for their decision making.
The Bank partners on their efforts to collect good data and promote its access
and use. In 2015, the World Bank identified 77 countries that either had no house-
hold-level data at all, had only one household survey in the last 10 years, or two
surveys that were more than five years apart; most were IDA countries. This hinders
their ability to make programmatic and policy decisions based on data and to mon-
itor poverty and shared prosperity trends. The Bank is now engaged in all IDA coun-
tries, either through lending or technical assistance, to ensure that the pledge set in
2015 of having all these countries complete one round of surveys by 2020 is met.



    For more information, visit data.worldbank.org.




	           PROMOTING DEVELOPMENT THROUGH RESEARCH, ANALYSIS, AND DATA 	                  39
      Mobilizing Partnerships in a
      New Development Landscape




      The range of participants within the global development community continues to
      grow with traditional and non-traditional actors taking on new and changing roles.
      Such an evolving landscape is inspiring a new roadmap for forming partnerships
      and strengthening collaboration among stakeholders.


      Strengthening partnerships to deepen collaboration
      In fiscal 2018, the World Bank reaffirmed its commitment to work with partners of
      all kinds to tackle shared global development challenges.
         Philanthropy and the private sector. To support and align with the strate-
      gic emphasis on Maximizing Finance for Development, the World Bank sharpened
      its focus on building partnerships with an expanding group of influential actors
      including foundations, new philanthropists, impact investors, social entrepreneurs,
      and other private sector leaders. This work catalyzes innovative partnerships and
      activates new champions in support of institutional priorities, including forced dis-
      placement, climate, gender, and human capital.
         Civil society. The World Bank continued to strengthen engagement and col-
      laboration with civil society organizations (CSOs), including faith-based organiza-
      tions. Throughout the year, the Bank encouraged CSO participation in key policy
      discussions, and it enhanced its engagement with CSOs beyond Washington, DC,
      including in Indonesia where the World Bank Group and IMF will hold their 2018
      Annual Meetings.
         The Civil Society Policy Forum hosted at this year’s Annual and Spring Meetings
      enabled the Bank and CSOs to deliberate on critical issues such as citizen engage-
      ment, financial intermediaries, education, energy, and climate change. More than
      1,000 CSO participants attended the Spring Meetings—the largest contingent to
      date—demonstrating the enduring interest from CSOs in engaging with the Bank.
      A new CSO Innovation Fair, held during the spring Policy Forum, also provided a
      unique opportunity for CSOs to engage one another, delegates, and Bank staff
      through a showcase of their advocacy campaigns, online data tools, and other inno-
      vative products and interventions.
         Parliamentarians. As elected representatives, parliamentarians are key to inte-
      grating citizen voices into programs and promoting lasting development results.
      In this context, the Bank expanded its engagement with parliamentarians through
      initiatives such as a pilot outreach program with European parliamentarian staff
      who facilitate engagement between legislators and the World Bank, with the aim
      of deepening shared understanding, knowledge, and collaboration. The Bank also
      launched a global young members of parliament (MPs) initiative with a core group

40	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
of influential parliamentarians under the age of 45, in an effort to cultivate the
next generation of parliamentary leaders committed to overcoming international
development challenges. This year the Bank organized a parliamentary field visit
to Vietnam, which allowed a delegation of 29 MPs from 15 countries to see the
impact of Bank-financed infrastructure projects in Hanoi.
    The Annual and Spring Meetings continue to provide important engage-
ment opportunities with parliamentarians. The 2018 Annual Global Parliamentary
Conference, co-organized with the Parliamentary Network and the IMF, hosted
205 MPs from 58 countries, including 9 heads of parliament (speakers and vice-
speakers), 20 committee chairs, and 35 members of finance or budget commit-
tees. The Conference covered a range of topics including youth unemployment
and job creation, human capital, governance, gender, and development finance.
    Partnering within communities. The Bank works actively to engage and
contribute to its local community, whether in Washington, DC, or at country
offices around the world. Through the Community Connections program, the
entire World Bank Group and its staff personally partner with local communi-
ties and nongovernmental organizations via staff donations, matching corpo-
rate philanthropy, volunteerism, in-kind donations, and an internship program
for students from local public high schools to strengthen the communities in
which it works. Together, these programs leverage a motivated, highly educated,
and international workforce for the betterment of communities where they live
around the world.


Working together to address the critical issues of
our time
The World Bank Group is actively working across the institution to strengthen the
collaboration and partnerships that can help bring immediate attention to critical
global issues.
    Fragility. Today more than 68 million people worldwide have been forced
from their homes, and by 2030 almost half of the poor will live in fragile and
conflict-affected situations. Tackling fragility and displacement, and closing the
gap between humanitarian and development work, is critical for the global devel-
opment agenda and a priority for many of the Bank’s partners and stakeholders.
    This year, the World Bank focused its annual Advisory Council—a gathering of
global leaders representing the private sector, impact investors, philanthropists,
and foundations—on fragility to tackle this critical issue from all fronts. Partici-
pants discussed the Syrian refugee crisis and presented a collective perspective of
the challenges and opportunities facing actors working in fragile situations. They
also discussed how to leverage each actor’s strengths, such as the patient capital
                                                                     ­ bility to be
of foundations, the Bank’s convening power, and the private sector’s a
agile, create jobs, and spur economic growth. The Advisory Council discussions
led to a commitment from foundations, the private sector, and the World Bank
Group to explore the feasibility of a matchmaking platform in support of refugees
and host communities. This would aim to match private sector companies with
opportunities for refugees and unlock investment financing. It would be accom-
panied by a global advocacy effort to change the narrative around refugees.
    Climate change. This fiscal year the Bank mobilized partnerships across pub-
lic, private, multilateral, and civil society spheres to advance the climate agenda.
Work continued on shaping Invest4Climate, a platform being developed with UN
partners to leverage public and philanthropic funding to crowd in more private
sector investment for climate action in developing countries. And in May, the


	                MOBILIZING PARTNERSHIPS IN A NEW DEVELOPMENT L ANDSCAPE 	             41
        Bank delivered the second edition of “Innovate4Climate”—a new annual confer-
        ence bringing together finance, business, technology, and policy leaders to drive
        climate investment.
           Since 2011, Connect4Climate (C4C) has built a global network of more than
        500 partners among civil society, youth coalitions, the private sector, international
        organizations, and others. C4C connects individuals and groups, amplifies dis-
        course and interaction, and shares information to promote climate-related events
        and activities, with a strong emphasis on engagement with youth. This year, C4C
        was involved in initiatives that heightened awareness and advocacy on climate
        change. These included All4theGreen in Bologna, a program of more than 80
        events focused on climate change leading up to and during the G-7 Environment
        Ministerial Meeting in June 2017, and Uniting4Climate, a campaign developed in
        collaboration with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
        and the governments of Fiji, Italy, and Germany ahead of and through the 2017
        United Nations Climate Change Conference held in Bonn in November 2017 and
        the One Planet Summit held in Paris in December 2017. C4C has also success-
        fully continued its long-standing engagement with the film industry through the
        Film4Climate global campaign dedicated to advancing climate action and the
        inclusion of sustainability messages in films and creative visual storytelling.
           Finally, the Private Sector Liaison Officers (PSLO) Network also focused key
        missions on sustainable energy and climate-smart agriculture in Washington, DC,
        and Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, respectively.
           Human capital. As the global economy rebounds, more countries are within
        reach of achieving real economic gains. These gains may be short-lived and
        opportunities may be missed if countries do not invest in human capital to pre-
        pare their citizens for the jobs of the future. As the World Bank works to drive
        more and better investments in people, it is putting human capital at the center
        of its global agenda through the Human Capital Project. The Bank has engaged
        stakeholders from the public and private sectors, as well as from civil society and
        foundations, to mobilize global support for this effort. From the Annual Meet-
        ings’ Human Capital Summit, where government leaders including President Paul
        Kagame of Rwanda committed to action to invest in human capital, to the Spring
        Meetings’ discussion on making human capital a project for the world with Bill
        Gates and UK Secretary of State for International Development Penny Mordaunt, a



42	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
diverse range of stakeholders are coming forward to champion the human capital
agenda in partnership with the Bank.
    Technology. Harnessing the power of technology and data presents exciting
opportunities to create new markets, jobs, and economic growth. However, it
must be adopted in a way that ensures that inequality does not increase within
and between countries. The World Bank Group worked actively with partners
this fiscal year to connect clients to the dynamic opportunities of technology
while managing associated challenges. For example, the Bank partnered with
the Global System for Mobile Communications Association (GSMA) to harness
the power of data from the Internet of Things to help developing countries solve
their most critical development challenges. TechEmerge, a first-of-its-kind match-
making program, connects proven technology solutions from around the world
with organizations and institutions in developing markets. It also supports local
pilot projects to accelerate the adoption of technology where it’s needed most.
This year the World Bank Group launched the TechEmerge program for the health
care market in Brazil, working with 25 health system providers across the country
serving over 19 million patients annually. In addition, the Identification for Devel-
opment (ID4D) initiative brings global knowledge and expertise to help countries
realize the potential of digital identification systems. To help achieve this, ID4D
has forged partnerships with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Omid-
yar Network, and the Government of Australia, whose support brings thought
leadership and funding to this initiative. Lastly, the Digital Economy for Africa Ini-
tiative, launched at the Spring Meetings, brought together African governments,
development organizations, bilateral donors, and the private sector to support
building the foundations for digital economies in African countries.
    Gender. Achieving true gender equality continues to be a deep challenge.
Many women around the world lack the voice and decision-making ability to
improve their livelihoods for themselves or for their families, especially in develop-
ing countries. Investing in gender equality is not only a moral imperative, but also
smart economics. In fiscal 2018, the Bank continued to push for gender equal-
ity and empowering women in development through various initiatives, such as
the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (We-Fi), a collaborative partnership
between the Bank, governments, multilateral development banks (MDBs), and
other stakeholders to help unlock billions of dollars of financing for small and
medium enterprises owned and led by women in developing countries. The ini-
tiative aims to address financial and non-financial barriers and create a better
environment for women entrepreneurs. In partnership with the Government of
Canada, the Bank also launched a new study on the economic costs of gender
inequality, which found the global loss in human capital wealth due to gender
inequality to be estimated at $160.2 trillion. The study, which helped inform the
G-7 Finance Ministers meeting in Canada, offers economic evidence to help clients
and partners make the case for investments that close gaps in gender equality.
    Multilateral engagement. The World Bank’s participation within key inter-
national forums are important opportunities to provide a voice for developing
countries and to advance critical priorities for the Bank’s clients. This year, the
Bank is supporting the Argentinian G-20 Presidency’s efforts to develop infra-
structure as an asset class, as well as to prepare governments and workers for an
economy shaped by rising digitalization, automation, and artificial intelligence.
With UNICEF and the Inter-American Development Bank, the World Bank is also
supporting the G-20 priority of early childhood development. In addition, the
Bank is leading efforts to more systematically engage with institutional investors



	                MOBILIZING PARTNERSHIPS IN A NEW DEVELOPMENT L ANDSCAPE 	               43
        to stimulate greater long-term sustainable financing into developing and devel-
        oped countries. The Bank has also continued to follow up on work accomplished
        last year under the German G-20 Presidency to implement efforts to promote
        sustainable and inclusive economic development in Africa, mobilize greater pri-
        vate sector finance, and increase women’s economic empowerment. Within the
        G-7, the Bank is strongly supporting Canada’s prioritization of gender issues,
        while also demonstrating how MDBs are working more as a system through the
        delivery of value for money and the increased development impact achieved
        through private sector operations.
           Small states. The World Bank uses its convening power to help small states
        in taking a collective stand in international forums to highlight the development
        challenges they face and draw more attention to their concerns. It convenes an
        annual Small States Forum on the margins of the World Bank Group-IMF Annual
        Meetings. The forum provides a platform for high-level dialogue on key issues
        affecting small states and allows members to showcase development initiatives
        and activities. The 2017 Forum in Washington, DC, discussed issues related to
        concessional financing, climate finance, private financing, and the blue economy.
           Prioritizing partnership efforts and improving efficiencies. To more effec-
        tively collaborate with organizations on global development objectives, the World
        Bank Group has worked to improve coordination, better leverage capabilities, and
        find efficiencies with its partners. This year, President Kim signed a new Strategic
        Partnership Framework with UN Secretary-General António Guterres to consol-
        idate the institutions’ joint commitment to help countries implement the 2030
        Agenda for Sustainable Development. The agreement deepens the partnership by
        focusing efforts on jointly selected priorities and by utilizing the complementary
        strengths of the institutions to broaden their impact. It centers on four key areas
        of cooperation: finance and implementation support to help countries reach the
        sustainable development goals; decisive global action on climate change; joint
        work in postcrisis and humanitarian settings; and harnessing data to improve
        development outcomes. In addition, the World Bank Group supports the ‘Grand
        Bargain’ agreement among aid organizations and donors, which seeks to improve
        the effectiveness of humanitarian assistance. Launched at the World Humanitarian
        Summit, the Grand Bargain is a commitment to enhance efficiency, transparency,
        and collaboration in the way financing is provided and used in crisis situations.




         For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/en/about/partners.




44	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Regional Perspectives




The World Bank operates today out of 140 offices worldwide. An
increased presence in client countries is helping the Bank to better
understand, work more effectively with, and provide more timely ser-
vices to its partners in those countries. Ninety-four percent of Country
Directors/Country Managers and 43 percent of staff are based in coun-
tries within each of the six geographical regions. The following section
highlights the major goals achieved, projects undertaken, strategies
implemented, and publications produced in fiscal 2018.




	                               SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS IN PRIORIT Y AREAS 	   45
                        Africa

      There is a modest growth recovery underway in Africa, bolstered by broad-based
      global growth, loose monetary policies, and a rise in commodity prices. Economic
      growth is projected to increase to 3.1 percent in 2018, up from 2.6 percent in 2017,
      and reach an average of 3.6 percent in fiscal 2020, reflecting a gradual pick-up
      in growth in Nigeria, South Africa, and Angola—the region’s largest economies.
      However, many challenges remain. Growth in the non-resource industrial sectors
      of oil and metals exporters has yet to pick up, underscoring the slow structural
      transformation in the region. In many countries, public debt burdens are increasing,
      fueling debt sustainability risks. Poverty continues to be widespread, with rising
      fragility and a lack of productive employment contributing to social instability and
      intraregional migration.
          While the region’s per capita GDP growth will turn positive in 2018, it will remain
      insufficient to reduce poverty significantly. The total poverty headcount at the inter-
      national poverty line is projected to decline only slightly in 2018.

      World Bank assistance
      The World Bank approved $16.5 billion in lending to the region for 138 projects
      in fiscal 2018, including $1.1 billion in IBRD loans and $15.4 billion in IDA commit-
      ments. Revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with nine coun-
      tries was $7.5 million. Key focus areas of the World Bank strategy for Africa include:
      raising agricultural productivity, increasing access to affordable and reliable energy,
      building resilience to climate change, promoting regional integration, and boosting
      human capital.

      Harnessing technology for clean and reliable energy
      At only 42.8 percent (as of 2016), energy access in Africa lags behind other regions.
      As part of efforts to ensure access to affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy
      for all, the Bank’s work in the region supports grid extension and expansion of
      the transmission network, innovative off-grid electrification solutions, expansion of
      renewable generation capacity, development of regional power pools, and improve-
      ment of service efficiency. In addition, the Bank is supporting the development and
      adoption of new technologies such as solar storage solutions, smart meters, mobile
      utility payments, satellite mapping and imaging, high-voltage direct current trans-
      mission, and solar home systems and mini-grids.
          The renewable energy program Scaling Solar is yielding strong results, making
      privately funded grid-connected solar projects operational within two years with
      competitive tariffs. In Zambia, auctions have resulted in some of the lowest tariffs in
      Africa ($0.06 per kilowatt hour). The program has expanded to include activities in
      Ethiopia, Madagascar, and Senegal.



      TABLE 2  AFRICA
      REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2016–18
      	                  COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                  DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
      	                FY16	 FY17	FY18	 FY16	FY17	FY18
          IBRD	 669	 1,163	1,120	 874	 427	 734
          IDA	  8,677	 10,679	15,411	 6,813	 6,623	 8,206
      Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2018: $70.7 billion.




46	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Investing in the early years and empowering women and youth
Of the 250 million children under the age of 5 in Africa, one-third are stunted and
less than one-quarter are enrolled in preschool, threatening economic growth and
social development in the region. The World Bank employs a multisectoral approach
to reduce stunting, expand access to early learning, and harness social protection
opportunities to reach the most vulnerable. In Rwanda, for example, the Bank is
helping to address chronic malnutrition through health and nutrition interven-
tions, high-quality child feeding and hygiene practices, enhanced access to food
through cash transfers, and support for improvements in household food security
and dietary diversity.
    Meanwhile, the $205 million multisectoral Sahel Women’s Empowerment and
Demographic Dividend Project stretching across six countries (Burkina Faso, Chad,
Côte d’Ivoire, Mali, Mauritania, and Niger) is providing 210,000 young women with
life skills and livelihood interventions and helping 87,000 girls to continue their
schooling. The program seeks to strengthen resilience in the Sahel by giving women
and girls the tools to shape their own future and improve access to quality repro-
ductive, child, and maternal health services.

Scaling up social protection with innovative approaches
The World Bank contributed $17 million to the Social Safety Nets Project in Sierra
Leone, which provides regular income support to extremely poor households
across the country. The project is currently supporting roughly 30,000 households
with quarterly payments and rolling out workshops on health, nutrition, and basic
financial literacy. By harnessing digital technology and mobile phones, the pro-
gram can collect quality data in the field and transmit this quickly to headquarters,
thereby conducting efficient targeting and enrollment, delivering timely payments
with electronic verification, recording grievances, and monitoring activities. The
approach has been adopted by the government and replicated in other interven-
tions, including during the Ebola crisis and the recent mudslides.

Promoting climate resilience and sustainable transport
Despite being the lowest carbon emitter, Africa is more vulnerable to climate change
than other regions—of the top 10 countries most vulnerable to climate change
impact, nine are in Africa. The Bank’s Africa Climate Business Plan (ACBP) sets out
a work program to leverage financing in support of climate change adaptation. As
shown in the second ACBP progress report, as of June 30, 2018, there are 186 World
Bank–supported projects worth $20 billion contributing to ACBP implementation.
   To reduce greenhouse gas emissions and connect citizens to jobs, the World
Bank is supporting the construction of a fully segregated 18.3-kilometer Bus Rapid


FIGURE 2 AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2018
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $16.5 BILLION

Water, Sanitation,                                                  Agriculture, Fishing,
and Waste Management                   11%     8%                           and Forestry


Transportation                    4%                   8%                     Education

Social Protection             9%
                                                          19% Energy and Extractives

Public Administration         24%
                                                         2%              Financial Sector

                                                        7%                        Health
Information and
Communications Technologies             1%        8%        Industry, Trade, and Services



	                                                                        THE REGIONS 	      47
      Transit system in Dakar, Senegal. Approved in 2017 by the Board, the $300 million
      pilot project has the potential for replication and scaling up across the region.

      Partnering on research to improve entrepreneurship
      The World Bank Group joined forces with a team of psychologists from the Uni-
      versity of Singapore and Leuphana University in Germany to develop and pilot a
      psychology-based personal initiative training in Togo that focuses on developing
      non-cognitive skills and successful entrepreneurial behavior.  The results from this
      pilot, recently published in Science Magazine, demonstrated the effectiveness of
      the psychology-based training for entrepreneurs, who saw their profits rise by an
      average of 30 percent relative to the control group. Female entrepreneurs who
      received the training saw an average increase of 40 percent in monthly profits. The
      promising results of the pilot have led governments and other multilateral institu-
      tions to apply these lessons in their entrepreneurship programs and further adapt
      and scale the training for other sectors and country contexts.




      PROJECT SPOTLIGHT
      Maximizing finance for development in Kenya’s energy sector
      Over the past two decades, Kenya’s energy sector has undergone a series of reforms
      to create enabling conditions for private sector investment. As a result, Kenya has
      mobilized at least $2.5 billion in private capital in the power sector toward over-
      coming its power generation deficits. With adequate power generation capacity
      available, Kenya is now driving one of the most successful electrification programs
      in Sub-Saharan Africa, encompassing both grid and off-grid solutions. Kenya has
      made 1.2 million new electricity connections per year in the last three years—a
      tremendous feat in the African context.
          Under the $135 million Kenya Private Sector Power Generation Support Project,
      IDA guarantees leveraged $431 million from private capital for the development of
      250 megawatts of thermal capacity, which were commissioned between 2013 and
      2016. MIGA provided breach-of-contract guarantees, while IFC provided long-term
      financing. A separate $180 million IDA guarantee was recently approved that will
      help the Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) strengthen its financial
      position through a corporate debt restructuring process to help KenGen raise up
      to $300 million in long-term commercial financing. Proceeds from the new loan
      will be used to refinance an expensive portion of KenGen’s existing commercial
      loans and enhance KenGen’s credit quality, thereby reducing financial costs and
      extending maturity periods. It will also contribute to the creation of an enabling
      environment for the sustainable development of renewable energy in Kenya.
          As a result of these combined
      efforts, 30 percent of the installed
      generation capacity (around 700
      megawatts) is developed through
      independent power producers,
      representing 44 percent of the
      incremental generation capacity
      since 1990. Kenya’s two major
      utilities, Kenya Power and Lighting
      Company and KenGen, are pub-
      licly listed and able to tap into cap-
      ital markets for financing needs.




48	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 3  AFRICA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND
Total population (millions)	                               671	          878	       1,061 	
Population growth (annual %)	                               2.7	         2.8	         2.7	
GNI per capita (Atlas method,
                                                           503	 1,287	1,453
current US$)	                                                                                	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           0.9	         2.6	        –0.1	
Population living below $1.90 a day
                                                           402b	407	401
(millions)	                                                            	
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                  52	          58	          62	
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    49	          55	          59	
Youth literacy rate, females
                                                            61	 64	72
(% ages 15–24)	                                                                          	
Youth literacy rate, males
                                                            72	 75	79
(% ages 15–24)	                                                      	
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                       564	          746	        822	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
                                                          56.9b	46.5	42.3
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	                                            	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
                                                            43	 38	34
height for age (% children under 5)c	                                                    	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                          846	 625	547
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	                   	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
                                                           155	101	78
(per 1,000 live births)	                                                                 	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
                                                            54	 67	70
(% relevant age group)	                                                                  	
SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate                              82	 85	86
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	                                                               	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
                                                            12	 19	24
women in national parliaments (% total)	                                                 	
SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic water
                                                            44	 53	58
services (% population)	                                                                 	
SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
                                                            24	 27	28
services (% population)	                                                                 	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
                                                            26	 33	43
(% population)	                                                                          	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
                                                            73	 71	70
(% total final energy consumption)	                                                      	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
                                                             1	 7	20
(% population)	                                                                          	
Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2017; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.




    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/afr and
    data.worldbank.org/country.



	                                                                                                THE REGIONS 	        49
                        East Asia and Pacific

      Growth in East Asia and Pacific accelerated to 6.6 percent in 2017, making it one
      of the fastest growing regions in the world. Underpinned by prospects for contin-
      ued broad-based global recovery and robust domestic demand, regional growth is
      expected to remain strong, though it is forecast to moderate to 6.2 percent in 2018.
          After growing faster than anticipated in 2017, China is expected to slow moder-
      ately to 6.5 percent in 2018. With improved prospects for investment and private
      consumption, growth in Thailand is expected to strengthen in 2018. In the Phil-
      ippines and Vietnam, growth is anticipated to remain stable, while in Malaysia it
      is expected to ease. In East Asia’s smaller economies, the prospects are generally
      favorable. The outlook for the Pacific Island countries is mixed, with modest but
      volatile growth in the smaller nations and an easing of growth in Fiji and Papua
      New Guinea. The two main risks to growth are a faster-than-expected tightening of
      global financing conditions and the escalation of trade protectionism.
          While poverty continues to decline, over a quarter of the region’s population
      remains economically insecure, and inequality is perceived to be high and rising in
      many countries. Rapid urbanization and business demands are feeding a massive
      need for infrastructure investment in the region, where 130 million lack access to
      power, 600 million lack access to adequate sanitation, and broadband infrastruc-
      ture and connectivity are lagging. Fragility and conflict are also intensifying in
      some countries.


      World Bank assistance
      The World Bank approved $4.6 billion for 38 projects in the region in fiscal 2018,
      including $4.0 billion in IBRD loans and $631 million in IDA commitments. The Bank
      also signed 10 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with four countries and
      one with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations for a total of $1  1.7 million. The
      Bank’s regional strategy focuses on three main areas: private sector–led growth, resil-
      ience and sustainability, and human capital and inclusion.


      Supporting private sector–led growth with knowledge and lending
      With the private sector accounting for 90 percent of jobs, a focus on private sector–
      led growth is key to reducing poverty and promoting inclusive growth in the region.
      In March 2018, the World Bank Group organized a conference in Vietnam high-
      lighting the importance of a sound business environment. Participants discussed
      specific actions to streamline administrative procedures and enhance efficiency in
      areas such as business licensing, paying taxes, and trading across borders. The Bank
      is also supporting the establishment of robust regulatory and policy frameworks in
      countries such as Thailand, Brunei, and Malaysia.


      TABLE 4  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
      REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2016–18
      	                  COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                  DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
      	                FY16	 FY17	FY18	 FY16	FY17	FY18
          IBRD	       5,176	 4,404	3,981	 5,205	3,961	3,476
          IDA	        2,324	 2,703	 631	 1,204	1,145	1,252
      Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2018: $35.3 billion.



50	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
   To promote private sector involvement in sustainable development, the Bank
supported the $55 million Geothermal Energy Upstream Development Project in
Indonesia, which aims to facilitate investment in geothermal power generation. In
Vietnam, the Bank is providing advisory assistance for capacity building and institu-
tional reforms to promote private investments as part of the $238 million Sustain-
able Agriculture Transformation Project. Additionally, as part of overall Maximizing
Finance for Development efforts in the region, the Bank and IFC piloted Infrastruc-
ture Assessment Programs in Indonesia and Vietnam to assess constraints to private
sector investment in infrastructure.
   The World Bank is also focusing on empowering women in the workplace. For
example, in the Solomon Islands, the Bank is investing in women’s skills develop-
ment, while in Vietnam, it is informing a gender-focused policy dialogue on the new
labor code.

Enhancing sustainable infrastructure, natural wealth,
and climate resilience
The region contributes a large and growing share of carbon emissions globally and
is one of the most vulnerable regions to climate impacts and natural disasters. In
the Philippines, recurrent flooding has made life more difficult for the poorest pop-
ulations who live in low-lying areas, on riverbanks, and in other danger zones. The
$208 million Metro Manila Flood Management Project will modernize 36 existing
pumping stations, allow for the construction of 20 new ones, and improve support-
ing infrastructure along critical waterways.
    To enhance natural wealth and resilience, the $38 million Green Growth Devel-
opment Policy Operation series in Lao People’s Democratic Republic is supporting
better governance of natural resources and the environment. At the 2017 United
Nations Climate Change Conference in Bonn, the World Bank–supported Climate
Vulnerability Assessment for Fiji was launched, which identified measures to help Fiji
and Fijians become more resilient. To reduce air pollutants and carbon emissions by
increasing energy efficiency and clean energy in China, a $500 million program will
help provide financing for enterprises that take action under China’s Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Action Plan.

Investing in human capital for inclusive growth
Public perceptions in the region point to concerns about high and rising inequality,
falling mobility, and growing economic insecurity. Some of the long-term trends
that previously supported the region’s more equitable growth—such as the demo-
graphic transition and rapid urbanization—need to be better managed.


FIGURE 3  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2018
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $4.6 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,                                                  Agriculture, Fishing,
and Waste Management                  24%       15%                         and Forestry

                                                          5%                  Education


Transportation            8%                              2%      Energy and Extractives

                                                            0%          Financial Sector

Social Protection             6%                             8%                   Health


Public Administration            9%
Information and
Communications Technologies             2%        21%      Industry, Trade, and Services



	                                                                       THE REGIONS 	       51
         Investments in human capital are key to increasing productivity and achieving
      inclusive growth. Investing in the early years, with a focus on fighting malnutrition
      and reducing high stunting rates, remains a regional priority. In Indonesia, condi-
      tional cash transfers under the Family Hope Program have been associated with a
      reduction in severe stunting by 3 percentage points. To build on this success, the
      government, with World Bank financing, will scale up its coverage from 3.5 million
      families in 2015 to 10 million by the end of 2020.
         Having improved overall health outcomes, China faces new challenges, including
      an aging population, an increasing burden of chronic diseases, and fast-rising health
      expenditures. The $600 million Health Reform Program-for-Results aims to tackle
      those challenges by improving hospital services, establishing a people-centered inte-
      grated care model, and creating an enabling policy and institutional environment.




      PROJECT SPOTLIGHT
      Generating opportunities for the people of Lao PDR
      In Lao PDR, the Nam Theun 2 (NT2) Social and Environment Project brought
      together 27 development partners and financiers to help develop a modern, safe,
      and environmentally and socially sustainable hydropower project that could gen-
      erate power and expand opportunities for modern livelihoods.
          NT2 is expected to generate $2 billion in revenues over a 20-year period. These
      revenues flow back to the people of Lao PDR through investments in poverty
      reduction and environmental programs. In addition to revenues invested in educa-
      tion, health, and other social programs, the project covers the protection of large
      areas with rich biodiversity, with the Nakai Nam-Theun Protected Area slated to
      become one of Lao PDR’s first national parks.
          New sources of livelihoods have emerged for the resettled families on the Nakai
      Plateau, with the incomes of 97 percent of households having doubled since
      before the project. In addition to new homes with bathrooms, electricity, and
      rainwater-collection tanks, the project included the construction of schools, health
      centers, and an upgraded district hospital. Today, about 90 percent of children
      aged five to nine attend schools, child mortality has dropped from 120 per 1,000
      before resettlement to 50 per 1,000, and 90 percent of resettled children under
      five are immunized.
          The World Bank is working with the government and other partners to ensure
      that NT2 continues to build on its accomplishments. This includes providing finan-
      cial and technical support to many sectors, including conservation, agriculture,
      fiscal management, and village development.




52	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 5  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND
Total population (millions)	                              1,816	       1,966	       2,068 	
Population growth (annual %)	                               1.0	         0.7	         0.7	
GNI per capita (Atlas method,
                                                            914	 3,767	6,987
current US$)	                                                               	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           6.4	         9.0	         5.8	
Population living below $1.90 a day
                                                           553b	221	 73
(millions)	                                                                              	
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                  73	          75	          77	
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    69	          72	          73	
Youth literacy rate, females
                                                            97	 99	99
(% ages 15–24)	                                                      	
Youth literacy rate, males
                                                            98	 99	99
(% ages 15–24)	                                                      	
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                      4,197	       10,040	 11,689	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
                                                          29.9b	11.2	 3.6
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	                                            	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
                                                            25	 16	12
height for age (% children under 5)c	                                                    	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                          120	79	63
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	                	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
                                                            43	 23	17
(per 1,000 live births)	                                                                 	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
                                                            92	 102	95
(% relevant age group)	                                                                  	
SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate                              82	 79	78
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	                                                               	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
                                                            17	 18	20
women in national parliaments (% total)	                                                 	
SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic water
                                                            78	 89	93
services (% population)	                                                                 	
SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
                                                            60	 70	75
services (% population)	                                             	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
                                                            90	 95	97
(% population)	                                                                          	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
                                                            32	 16	16
(% total final energy consumption)	                                  	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
                                                             2	 29	48
(% population)	                                                      	
Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2017; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.




    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eap and
    data.worldbank.org/country.



	                                                                                              THE REGIONS 	          53
                        Europe and Central Asia

      In fiscal 2018, growth in Europe and Central Asia was stronger than at any time since
      the global financial crisis. Growth was robust across the region, especially in Central
      Europe and Turkey. In 2017, GDP rose 2.7 percent, and annual private consumption
      rose 2.5 percent. Growth is forecast to moderate to 2.3 percent in 2018. However,
      increased capacity utilization, unemployment rates close to their 2007 levels, and
      average inflation now exceeding 2 percent are all signals that regional growth is
      likely to slow further.
          During the economic upswing, many countries in the region increased their
      exports and reduced fiscal deficits, providing a cushion if cyclical headwinds
      materialize. Going forward, however, the region will face additional challenges
      navigating the global tightening of financial conditions and the rising tendencies
      toward protectionism.

      World Bank assistance
      The World Bank approved $4.5 billion in lending to the region for 37 projects in
      fiscal 2018, including $3.6 billion in IBRD loans and $957 million in IDA commit-
      ments. The Bank also signed 35 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with
      11 countries for a total of about $75 million. These agreements provided techni-
      cal advice on issues such as public finance and fiscal reforms, urban planning and
      development, and strengthening education and skills for employment. The Bank’s
      regional strategy seeks to support clients in enhancing productivity and building
      resilience through investments in sustainable and inclusive growth; in human capital
      to ensure people stay healthy, educated, and productive; and to mitigate the impact
      of climate change and natural disasters.

      Promoting sustainable and inclusive growth
      The Bank supports client countries in building solid foundations for macroeco-
      nomic and financial stability, improving governance and institutions, and creating an
      enabling environment for private sector–led growth. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, a
      $60 million project is strengthening the financial sector in the country. In Turkey, the
      Bank provided a $400 million loan to provide better access to finance for women-
      inclusive enterprises and to businesses active in areas with large refugee communities.
          In fiscal 2018, the Bank also provided financial support to boost trade and con-
      nectivity throughout the region, including a $50 million project to improve private
      sector competitiveness in Georgia, a $60 million loan to modernize transport con-
      nectivity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and a $50 million loan to improve regional
      and local roads in Albania. Additionally, the Bank is supporting improved access to
      affordable, quality, and high-speed broadband services in Kosovo through the $25
      million Digital Economy Project, and improving regional digital connectivity infra-
      structure and building a digital economy in the Kyrgyz Republic through the $50
      million Digital Central Asia–South Asia project.


      TABLE 6  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
      REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2016–18
      	                  COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                  DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
      	                FY16	 FY17	FY18	 FY16	FY17	FY18
          IBRD	 7,039	 4,569	3,550	 5,167	 2,799	 4,134
          IDA	 233	 739	957	 365	310	298
      Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2018: $26.5 billion.



54	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Supporting critical investments in human capital
Prioritizing and investing in the systems that help ensure people are healthy, edu-
cated, and connected is essential for economic growth. The World Bank continued
to work with countries to improve the quality of health care systems, supporting
Serbia with $31 million of additional financing to improve access to cancer pre-
vention and care, investing $100 million in emergency medical services in Uzbeki-
stan, and providing a $125 million loan to support the modernization of Belarus’s
health system.
    In Azerbaijan, additional financing of $67 million provided access to basic rural
infrastructure to 95 percent of households with internally displaced persons. In
Kazakhstan, a $67 million loan will improve the quality of and equity in primary and
secondary education in rural and disadvantaged schools.
    The Bank’s knowledge products provide evidence-based solutions and valuable
insights to help support policy makers make well informed decisions to address
development priorities. The report, Growing United: Upgrading Europe’s Con-
vergence Machine, looked at how Europe can boost growth and prosperity for all
citizens at a time when the rise of technology risks leaving behind the poorest
countries, lagging regions, and unskilled workers. The report recommends policies
that ensure people have the right skills to pursue new opportunities and increased
access to quality education and training, and that improve the country’s business
environment to create more jobs and opportunities for people.
    A survey on marginalized Roma in the Western Balkans, jointly conducted by the
World Bank and the United Nations Development Programme and supported by the
European Commission, showed increased school attendance but also a growing gap
between Roma and non-Roma in health, employment, and housing. The results can
help inform policies that address the challenges that Roma people face in Western
Balkan countries.


Building resilience to climate change and natural disasters
The World Bank focused on building resilience to climate change and natural disas-
ters with investments across the region in three areas: low-carbon energy transition,
sustainable land-use management, and climate resilience.
    The Bank is supporting energy efficiency in countries across the region, includ-
ing through a $200 million loan to support energy-saving investments in Uzbekistan
and a $31 million credit to reduce energy consumption and fossil fuel use in pub-
lic buildings in Kosovo. The Bank is also continuing to support low-carbon energy
sources, improving dam safety, and rehabilitating a hydropower plant in Tajikistan
with a $225 million loan and grant, and improving dam safety and efficiency in
Albania with additional financing of $14 million. In Belarus, a $14 million project is


FIGURE 4  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2018
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $4.5 BILLION

Water, Sanitation,                                                 Agriculture, Fishing,
and Waste Management                        1% 3%                          and Forestry

Transportation                        7%               1%                    Education

Social Protection                6%                       24% Energy and Extractives

Public Administration           17%

                                                          18%          Financial Sector
Information and
Communications Technologies      3%

Industry, Trade, and Services              18%    3%                             Health



	                                                                      THE REGIONS 	       55
      working on improving forestry management, while in Moldova, a $31 million project
      is helping to introduce sustainable land management practices.
          The Bank supported disaster risk management development policy loans in
      Serbia and Romania with catastrophe deferred drawdown option loans of $70
      ­
      million and $493 million, respectively. These investments provide rapid access to
      funding for natural disaster response and help strengthen institutional and legal
      frameworks to better manage the physical and fiscal impacts of natural disasters
      when they occur.




      PROJECT SPOTLIGHT
      Building momentum on Uzbekistan’s economic transformation
      Uzbekistan has made rapid progress in adopting major reforms to transform its
      economy. In less than two years, the government has made significant progress
      toward liberalizing its currency, lifting trade and investment barriers, improving
      business regulations, and opening markets to attract private sector investment and
      boost exports. The government has also introduced safety nets to protect its most
      vulnerable people and prioritized citizen engagement.
           To support this transformation, the World Bank has realigned its country strat-
      egy to help the country build a market economy, reform state institutions, broaden
      dialogue with citizens, and invest in human capital. Uzbekistan’s social and eco-
      nomic transformation has also generated new momentum among Central Asian
      countries for greater regional cooperation in energy, transport, water, and eco-
      nomic connectivity.
           In fiscal 2018, the Bank approved $1.4 billion for five new projects in Uzbekistan,
      focusing on energy efficiency, horticulture, and emergency medical services. Over-
      all financing in Uzbekistan amounts to $3.3 billion in existing projects that support
      Uzbekistan’s transition to a market economy, as well as reforms in the transport and
      education sectors, urban development, and water supply and sanitation services.
           The World Bank is also working closely with the government to modernize and
      diversify the massive agricultural sector, which employs millions of people, and
      help the country completely end the use of forced labor.




56	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 7  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND
Total population (millions)	                               393	          399	        416 	
Population growth (annual %)	                               0.0	         0.5	         0.6	
GNI per capita (Atlas method,
                                                          1,783	 7,426	7,370
current US$)	                                                               	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           8.0	         4.6	         3.4	
Population living below $1.90 a day
                                                            28b	11	8
(millions)	                                                                              	
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                  73	          75	          77	
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    63	          66	          69	
Youth literacy rate, females
                                                            98	 99	100
(% ages 15–24)	                                                       	
Youth literacy rate, males
                                                            99	 100	100
(% ages 15–24)	                                                        	
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                      2,693	        3,014	      3,030	
MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
                                                           5.9b	2.4	1.6
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	                                          	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
                                                             _	 _	_
height for age (% children under 5)c	                                                    	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                            56	 29	25
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	                                  	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
                                                            36	 20	14
(per 1,000 live births)	                                                                 	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
                                                            94	 97	98
(% relevant age group)	                                              	
SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate                              73	 73	71
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	                                                               	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
                                                             7	 15	20
women in national parliaments (% total)	                                                 	
SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic water
                                                            93	 95	96
services (% population)	                                             	
SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
                                                            87	 91	93
services (% population)	                                                                 	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
                                                            99	 99	100
(% population)	                                                                              	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
                                                             6	 6	6
(% total final energy consumption)	                                	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
                                                             2	 36	62
(% population)	                                                      	
Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2017; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 Data is not available due to insufficient population coverage in the estimates.




    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/eca and
    data.worldbank.org/country.



	                                                                                                THE REGIONS 	        57
                        Latin America and
                        the Caribbean

      After suffering the global downturn worse than any other region, Latin America and
      the Caribbean turned the corner in fiscal 2018. Excluding Venezuela, average GDP
      in the region grew 1.9 percent in 2017 and is expected to accelerate to 2.6 percent
      in 2018 and 2.8 percent in 2019.
          The World Bank is promoting faster and more equitable growth in the region to
      buttress the profound social transformation seen during the first decade of the 21st
      century, when the commodity boom fueled an expansion that helped cut poverty
      rates by half. Between 2003 and 2016, the share of the population living in extreme
      poverty in the region fell from 24.5 percent to 9.9 percent. Since then, however, the
      pace of poverty reduction and growth of the middle class has stalled.


      World Bank assistance
      The World Bank approved $4.3 billion in lending to the region for 34 projects in
      fiscal 2018, including $3.9 billion in IBRD loans and $428 million in IDA commit-
      ments. The Bank also issued the first-ever multi-country catastrophe bond between
      Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru, valued at more than $1.3 billion, and signed
      18 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with nine countries for a total of
      $5.5 million.
          In fiscal 2018, the Bank’s priorities in the region centered on supporting inclu-
      sive growth through higher productivity and competitiveness, with an emphasis on
      investing in education, health, and other aspects of human capital. It also invested in
      infrastructure and worked to improve countries’ abilities to manage and withstand
      shocks—such as natural disasters, economic upheaval, and crime and violence—
      while promoting greater transparency and accountability. In addition, the World Bank
      prioritized the inclusion of groups that have traditionally faced exclusion, including
      indigenous peoples and rural communities. As countries’ needs often exceed public
      resources, the Bank supported activities and interventions that attracted private
      investment whenever possible.


      Leveraging innovations to support economic recovery
      Natural disasters are a constant threat in the region, which can have detrimental
      impacts on economic growth. Following the devastating 2017 hurricane season,
      the Bank and its partners helped Caribbean countries conduct damage assessments
      and prepare emergency response projects. In Dominica, for example, the Bank
      pledged $115 million to support efforts to build climate resilience. The Bank also
      leveraged innovative solutions to transfer risks to capital markets and offer financial
      protection to participating governments.
          In Haiti, the Bank conducted an Urbanization Review to help lay the roadmap
      for the sustainable development of Haitian cities. The Bank is also supporting the
      Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States to implement the Eastern Caribbean

      TABLE 8  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
      REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2016–18
      	                  COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                  DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
      	                FY16	 FY17	FY18	 FY16	FY17	FY18
          IBRD	 8,035	 5,373	3,898	 5,236	3,885	4,066
          IDA	 183	 503	428	 303	229	223
      Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2018: $28.2 billion.



58	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Oceanscape Policy endorsed by 1    1 Caribbean heads of state. This involves advising
governments on concrete actions to generate sustainable blue growth that balances
economic activity with the preservation of healthy coastal and marine ecosystems.
    Public and private sector investment in infrastructure is a key element of both
growth and resilience. In fiscal 2018, the Bank provided $64 million for sanitation in
Brazil, $24 million for water delivery in Panama, and $17 million for municipal ser-
vices in the Dominican Republic. In addition, a $150 million project helped improve
over 1,500 kilometers of economically vital roads in Argentina, while the $74 million
Paraguay Road Maintenance Project helped the country improve the effectiveness
of road maintenance.


Investing in people to improve lives and the economy
Building up human capital by providing new opportunities to traditionally disadvan-
taged groups improves not only their lives, but also the entire country’s economic
strength. In Mexico, through a $100 million project, the World Bank helped over a
million women, indigenous peoples, and underprivileged and rural residents get
access to credit and savings institutions for the first time.
    The Bank also supported Peru in improving health and nutrition services for
the poor. The $25 million Results in Nutrition Project has helped the government
make major progress in improving health outcomes and decreasing hunger. As a
result, Peru has more than halved malnutrition among children under five, from 28
percent in 2008 to 13.1 percent in 2016. Meanwhile, in Chile, the Bank-supported
the $40 million Tertiary Finance for Results Project III, which helped the government
improve tertiary education by strengthening the links between public funding and
accountability for results.


Employing knowledge to solve countries’ unique challenges
The Bank also provides a host of Reimbursable Advisory Services and technical
assistance to countries in the region. In Colombia, these services supported the
implementation of public sector accounting regulation, agriculture insurance for
small farmers, and preparation of a broad socioemotional program for teachers and
students to improve education. In Mexico, the Bank provided technical assistance
on transport and governance. In Chile, the Bank helped with an assessment of
special economic zones and the social protection system, while in Peru it advised
on housing, improving conditions in urban slums, and strengthening the control
framework for public-private partnerships. The Bank also advised Argentina on
improving health care and Paraguay on forestry, finance, competitiveness, gover-
nance, and education.



FIGURE 5  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2018
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $4.3 BILLION

Water, Sanitation,                                                 Agriculture, Fishing,
and Waste Management                        11%   7%                       and Forestry


Transportation                       15%
                                                         13%                 Education

Social Protection               9%
                                                           12% Energy and Extractives

Public Administration           8%
                                                          2%           Financial Sector
Information and
Communications Technologies           <1%
Industry, Trade, and Services               4%    18%                            Health



	                                                                      THE REGIONS 	       59
         A series of groundbreaking reports and conferences also served as powerful
      convening platforms in the region. These included timely studies such as At a Cross-
      roads: Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean; The Jobs of Tomor-
      row: Technology, Productivity, and Prosperity in Latin America and the Caribbean;
      and Raising the Bar: For Productive Cities in Latin America and the Caribbean.




      PROJECT SPOTLIGHT
      Building resilience to natural disasters with catastrophe bonds
      Last year was a stark reminder that Latin America and the Caribbean is one of the
      most exposed regions to natural disasters. Devastating hurricanes left hundreds of
      victims across the Caribbean. Two earthquakes rattled Mexico. Flooding and land-
      slides followed heavy rains in Colombia and Peru. When such disasters strike, it is
      often the poorest who suffer the most. With these events in mind, the World Bank
      has sought to help countries in the region access greater risk insurance through
      capital markets.
          This year, the Bank issued more than $1.3 billion in catastrophe bonds as insur-
      ance against earthquakes in the Pacific Alliance—an economic and development
      initiative between Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru. The “Cat Bond” issuance was
      the largest of its kind ever placed and the first involving multiple countries. These
      bonds pay investors a premium for a set number of years, with governments receiv-
      ing a payout if a covered disaster happens and bondholders getting the principal
      back if not. This transfers part of the risk of disasters from governments to markets,
      ensuring the quick mobilization of funds and fiscal resilience in the face of disaster.
      To date, the Bank has facilitated nearly $4 billion in risk transactions worldwide.
          The Cat Bonds highlight the fact that building resilience involves more than just
      reducing exposure to threats. It is also crucial to design and implement policies
      that will ensure the well-being of all and allow economic growth to continue after
      a disaster. The Cat Bonds are also a huge step forward for regional integration and
      put Latin America at the vanguard of risk management.




60	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 9  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND
    Total population (millions)	                           460	          525	        568 	
    Population growth (annual %)	                           1.5	         1.2	         1.0	
    GNI per capita (Atlas method,
                                                          3,640	7,657	7,413
    current US$)	                                                          	
    GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                       2.6	         4.3	         0.5	
    Population living below $1.90 a day
                                                            63b	35	28
    (millions)	                                                      	
    Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	              74	          77	          78	
    Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                68	           71	         72	
    Youth literacy rate, females
                                                            95	 98	99
    (% ages 15–24)	                                                  	
    Youth literacy rate, males
                                                            94	 97	98
    (% ages 15–24)	                                                  	
    Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                  1,095	        1,376	      1,530	

    MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
    SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
                                                           11.7b	6.0	4.5
    below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	                                       	
    SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
                                                            17	 12	10
    height for age (% children under 5)c	                            	
    SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                              104	84	70
    estimate, per 100,000 live births)	                 	
    SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
                                                            34	 25	18
    (per 1,000 live births)	                                                             	
    SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
                                                            98	 99	99
    (% relevant age group)	                                          	
    SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
    labor force participation rate                          59	 66	67
    (modeled ILO estimate, %)	                                       	
    SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
                                                            15	 23	30
    women in national parliaments (% total)	                         	
    SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic water
                                                            90	 94	96
    services (% population)	                                         	
    SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
                                                            73	 81	84
    services (% population)	                                                             	
    SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
                                                            91	 96	98
    (% population)	                                                  	
    SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
                                                            31	 31	30
    (% total final energy consumption)	                              	
    SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
                                                             3	 33	55
    (% population)	                                                  	
Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2017; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.




     For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/lac and
     data.worldbank.org/country.



	                                                                                              THE REGIONS 	          61
                        Middle East and
                        North Africa

      Although violence and the consequences of war continue to take their toll in Libya,
      the Syrian Arab Republic, and the Republic of Yemen, the past year has seen several
      positive developments in the Middle East and North Africa region. Recovery and
      reconstruction efforts are underway in Iraq following the liberation of its territory,
      while countries such as the Arab Republic of Egypt and Saudi Arabia have under-
      gone major economic and social reforms. With support from the international com-
      munity, Syrian refugees and host communities in Lebanon and Jordan continued to
      show remarkable resilience, and Libya witnessed a renewed push for solutions to its
      ongoing crisis.
         Aided by reforms and firmer oil prices, regional economic growth is forecast to
      increase from 2 percent in 2017 to 3.1 percent in 2018. This growth will be broad-
      based, with most countries in the region seeing an uptick.


      World Bank assistance
      The World Bank approved $6.4 billion in lending to the region for 26 projects in
      fiscal 2018, including $5.9 billion in IBRD loans and $430 million in IDA commit-
      ments. Revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with nine coun-
      tries, as well as the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), was around $55 million, with
      the program expanding and focusing on key areas of support to the ongoing reform
      process in the GCC countries. The Maximizing Finance for Development approach is
      now an integral part of Bank Group programs in almost all countries in the region,
      with subregional strategies developed for the Maghreb, the Mashreq, and Egypt.
          The Middle East and North Africa regional strategy puts the promotion of peace
      and social stability at its center and continues to guide the Bank’s engagement. The
      strategy’s four pillars focus on forging a new social contract with citizens; increasing
      regional cooperation; building resilience, which includes addressing the challenges
      of forcibly displaced people; and supporting recovery and reconstruction. Many
      Bank programs in the region include more than one of these pillars.


      Renewing the social contract
      Promoting more accountable and more inclusive structures and supporting private
      sector–driven economies to provide greater opportunities remain key regional pri-
      orities for the Bank. In Tunisia, for example, a $60 million project targeted youth
      facing unemployment, another $100 million project focused on early childhood
      development, and a separate $140 million program supported farmers. In Lebanon,
      a $400 million program promoted labor-market reforms and skills training, includ-
      ing for refugees. A $30 million project in the West Bank and Gaza supported fiscal
      measures while strengthening the business environment, and a separate $13 mil-
      lion Innovative Private Sector Development Project further strengthened the role of



      TABLE 10  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
      REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2016–18
      	                  COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                  DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
      	                FY16	 FY17	FY18	 FY16	FY17	FY18
          IBRD	       5,170	 4,869	5,945	 4,427	5,335	3,281
          IDA	          31	 1,011	430	 44	 391	 569
      Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2018: $17.0 billion.



62	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
technology in helping to develop the private sector. In Djibouti, a $15 million project
sought to foster women and youth entrepreneurship and further highlighted the
region’s private sector focus, while in Egypt, a $500 million project supported criti-
cal reforms in the education sector.


Increasing regional cooperation
The Middle East and North Africa is the least integrated region in the world. The
Bank’s activities in the region, therefore, focus on promoting greater cooperation,
efficiency, and interdependence, particularly in the energy and private sectors,
where reforms will enhance cross-border investments and reinforce moves toward
a regional market. In fiscal 2018, a $1.2 billion program in Egypt enhanced fiscal
stabilization and private sector reforms in the energy sector while further reducing
subsidies. In Morocco, a $200 million program enhanced private sector participa-
tion in municipal infrastructure, while another $200 million program supported
private sector activities in agriculture. To promote the expansion of renewable
energy capacity in the country, the Bank also provided $100 million in additional
financing for the Noor Solar Power Project in central Morocco, which promotes
private sector participation.


Building resilience to forced displacement
In countries throughout the region, especially in Jordan, Lebanon, and Iraq, the
forcibly displaced—including refugees and internally displaced persons—continue
to pose challenges for local services. In Jordan, a $200 million program for education
reform will benefit both host communities and refugees in the country. Meanwhile, in
Lebanon, Syrian refugees are among the beneficiaries of a $295 million project
that will improve public transportation in Beirut and the surrounding areas. These
projects all include concessional financing from the Global Concessional Financing
Facility, an initiative launched in 2016 that leverages funding from donor countries
to bridge the financing gap for countries dealing with refugee crises.


Supporting economic recovery and reconstruction
Following the liberation of Iraq from ISIS, the World Bank has focused on recovery
and reconstruction in the country. This effort includes the $300 million Iraq Social
Fund for Development Project focused on small-scale community projects, the
$200 million Iraq Emergency Social Stabilization and Resilience Project focused on
social protection for vulnerable populations, and $400 million in additional financ-
ing for the Emergency Operation for Development Project. Meanwhile, the $210
million Baghdad Water Supply and Sewerage Improvement Project underlines the


FIGURE 6  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2018
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.4 BILLION

Water, Sanitation,                                                  Agriculture, Fishing,
and Waste Management                     8%    2%                           and Forestry

Transportation                      4%                12%                     Education



                                                           16% Energy and Extractives
Social Protection             18%

                                                            1%           Financial Sector

Public Administration         11%                         10%                     Health

Information and
Communications Technologies         1%           17%        Industry, Trade, and Services



	                                                                        THE REGIONS 	      63
      Bank’s commitment to longer-term reforms in Iraq’s water sector, including creat-
      ing the enabling environment for private sector investments.
          Elsewhere in the region, the Bank has expanded support to vulnerable communi-
      ties affected by conflict, most notably in the Republic of Yemen, where a humanitar-
      ian crisis looms. In fiscal 2018, the Republic of Yemen received three grants totaling
      $400 million for health and nutrition, specifically targeting the cholera outbreak,
      urban services, and emergency electricity provision.




      PROJECT SPOTLIGHT
      Enabling Private Sector Participation and Reforming the Energy
      Sector in Egypt
      In 2014, energy subsidies in the Arab Republic of Egypt were 6.6 percent of GDP—
      more than the public expenditure for health, education, and social protection com-
      bined. Daily power outages reached six hours. Political turmoil following 2011 and
      limited inter-ministerial coordination presented additional challenges. The private
      sector, dissuaded by the perception of insurmountable risks and credibility con-
      cerns, had not invested in the sector since 2002.
          This prompted a comprehensive response by the World Bank Group, encom-
      passing a $3.2 billion loan from IBRD, a $200 million guarantee insuring against
      political risk by MIGA, and the largest-ever renewable energy investment by IFC of
      $653 million.
          Between 2014 and 2018, Egypt witnessed a remarkable transformation in its
      energy sector. Subsidies went down to 3.3 percent of GDP, backed by a robust
      social protection mechanism and additional funds made available for social pro-
      grams. Legislation and regulations designed to facilitate private sector participa-
      tion in the renewable energy, electricity, and gas sectors were enacted, leading to
      more than $2 billion in private investments leveraged by IFC and MIGA and 1,500
      megawatts of new solar energy capacity. The program also led to the establish-
      ment of the world’s largest solar park, creating long-term employment for 500
      people in one of Egypt’s poorest regions, largely benefiting the most vulnerable
      members of the population.




64	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 11  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND
    Total population (millions)	                             281	         336	         380 	
    Population growth (annual %)	                            1.9	         1.8	         1.7	
    GNI per capita (Atlas method,
                                                           1,566	 3,949	3,843
    current US$)	                                                                              	
    GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                        2.4	         3.3	         1.8	
    Population living below $1.90 a day
                                                              9b	 8	10c
    (millions)	                                                        	
    Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	               71	           74	         75	
    Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                 68	           70	          71	
    Youth literacy rate, females
                                                             80	 84	87
    (% ages 15–24)	                                                   	
    Youth literacy rate, males
                                                             89	 91	92
    (% ages 15–24)	                                                                        	
    Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                    872	         1,282	       1,418	

    MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
    SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
                                                            3.2b	 2.3	2.7c
    below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	                                         	
    SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
                                                             23	 18	15
    height for age (% children under 5)d	                             	
    SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                              125	99	90
    estimate, per 100,000 live births)	                	
    SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
                                                             46	 30	26
    (per 1,000 live births)	                                                               	
    SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
                                                             81	 91	89
    (% relevant age group)	                                           	
    SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
    labor force participation rate                           24	 26	26
    (modeled ILO estimate, %)	                                                             	
    SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
                                                              4	 11	17
    women in national parliaments (% total)	                                               	
    SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic water
                                                             87	 90	92
    services (% population)	                                                               	
    SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
                                                             83	 86	88
    services (% population)	                                          	
    SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
                                                             91	 95	98
    (% population)	                                                   	
    SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
                                                              3	 3	3
    (% total final energy consumption)	                                                   	
    SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
                                                              1	 21	43
    (% population)	                                                                        	
Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2017; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 Poverty data for the region is from 2013 and may have changed as a result of conflict or fragility in the region.
d.	For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.




     For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/mena and
     data.worldbank.org/country.



	                                                                                                  THE REGIONS 	        65
                        South Asia

      South Asia remains the fastest-growing region in the world, with economic growth
      projected to accelerate from 6.6 percent in 2017 to 6.9 percent in 2018 and 7.1
      percent in 2019, driven by strong private consumption, recovering exports, and
      investments due to policy reforms and infrastructure upgrades. Risks to the outlook
      mainly stem from domestic factors, including weak exports, slow progress on fiscal
      consolidation, high deficits, and disruptions due to natural disasters.
          Robust growth has translated into declining poverty and impressive improve-
      ments in health and education. However, as of 2013, the proportion of people liv-
      ing on less than $1.90 a day was estimated at 14.7 percent, or about 249 million
      people—a third of the global poor. Moreover, many countries in the region suf-
      fer from extreme forms of social exclusion and significant infrastructure gaps. The
      region has also seen the largest refugee influx in modern times, with more than
      690,000 Rohingya refugees fleeing to Bangladesh since August 2017, according to
      United Nations estimates.


      World Bank assistance
      The World Bank approved $10.7 billion in lending to the region for 56 projects in
      fiscal 2018, including $4.5 billion in IBRD loans and $6.2 billion in IDA commitments,
      of which $451 million came from the IDA Scale-Up Facility. The Bank also deliv-
      ered 150 advisory services and analytical products to countries across the region,
      providing technical advice on issues such as energy sector reform, female labor
      force participation, and climate change. The Bank’s regional strategy emphasizes
      sustaining inclusive growth, investing in people, and addressing fragility. It focuses
      on supporting private sector development and job creation, particularly for women;
      investing in sustainable cities and climate-smart agriculture; and strengthening
      inclusion, public institutions, and governance.


      Supporting sustainable growth and creating jobs
      Economic growth in the region has been driven mainly by consumption and infra-
      structure upgrades, and can only be sustained at high levels if both investment and
      exports grow stronger. Moreover, with an estimated 1.5 million people entering the
      job market every month over the next two decades, job creation is essential. To
      address these challenges, the World Bank supports efforts such as the $300 mil-
      lion Punjab Agriculture and Rural Transformation Project in Pakistan, which seeks to
      improve agriculture productivity, raise farmers’ incomes, and create jobs on farms
      and in agribusinesses.
          The World Bank is also helping countries maximize their development resources
      by drawing on private financing and sustainable private sector solutions. The
      first use of the MIGA Guarantee Facility, part of the IDA18 Private Sector Window



      TABLE 12  SOUTH ASIA
      REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2016–18
      	                  COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                  DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
      	                FY16	 FY17	FY18	 FY16	FY17	FY18
          IBRD	       3,640	 2,233	4,508	 1,623	1,454	1,698
          IDA	        4,723	 3,828	 6,153	 4,462	3,970	3,835
      Portfolio of operations under implementation as of June 30, 2018: $52.3 billion.



66	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
operation, supported MIGA guarantees of up to $9 million for private investment in
the Rikweda Fruit Process Company in Afghanistan, a raisin production and process-
ing plant. In India, the World Bank and IFC worked together and attracted private
capital for the development of the 750-megawatt Rewa Ultra Mega Project in the
low-income state of Madhya Pradesh, one of the largest solar plants in the world.
Two World Bank guarantees helped Pakistan access over $1 billion in international
commercial financing in support of policy reforms for growth, competitiveness, and
infrastructure investments, such as the Dasu Hydropower Project.


Investing in human capital and supporting inclusive growth
To strengthen human capital as a driver of growth, the Bank focuses on improv-
ing access to and the quality of education, addressing stunting and malnutrition,
strengthening health systems and services, and supporting safety nets to protect the
poorest. Initiatives such as the $500 million Health Sector Support Project in Ban-
gladesh, the $600 million Sehatmandi Project in Afghanistan, and the $100 million
General Education Modernization Project in Sri Lanka build upon earlier efforts to
improve the quality and accessibility of health and education services in the region.
    At 28 percent, the labor participation of women in South Asia is very low and
has even declined in some countries. To address the factors that are holding women
back, the Bank focuses on improving their skills, promoting financial inclusion, and
changing social norms. One critical barrier to greater female participation in the
labor force is lack of access to safe transportation, which the Bank is addressing
through transport programs in Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan.


Fostering resilience to conflict and climate change
Conflict and fragility risks are increasing in South Asia, resulting in growing dis-
placement and border tensions. The World Bank is working with its partners to
provide basic services to the displaced and hosting communities, such as the recent
$1 14 million project in Pakistan that aims to support families affected by militancy-
related violence, improve child health care, and establish safety net systems in
affected parts of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas. The Bank is also sup-
porting Nepal’s historic transition to a federal democratic republic through a $200
million development policy credit, which includes resources from the IDA18 Risk
Mitigation Regime.
    South Asia is also highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, includ-
ing climate-induced natural disasters and rising sea levels. Progress in South Asia
depends on reducing carbon emissions, changing the energy mix, mitigating
the effects of climate change, and building climate resilience. For example, the



FIGURE 7  SOUTH ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2018
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $10.7 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,                                                  Agriculture, Fishing,
and Waste Management                        7%   13%                        and Forestry

Transportation                     11%


Social Protection                6%                         16%               Education


Public Administration           10%
Information and
                                                         12%      Energy and Extractives
Communications Technologies       2%
                                                       1%               Financial Sector
Industry, Trade, and Services         10%        11%                              Health



	                                                                       THE REGIONS 	       67
      $420 million Maharashtra Project on Climate-Resilient Agriculture in India aims
      to improve smallholder farmers’ capacity to adjust and modify their production
      systems to withstand future impacts from climate events.


      Promoting regional integration
      Regional integration and economic cooperation can enhance the prospects for pov-
      erty reduction and shared growth, yet South Asia remains one of the least integrated
      regions in the world. The Bank therefore focuses on energy and electricity trade,
      transport connectivity, and long-term water security in the region. In Afghanistan,
      the new $51 million Digital Central Asia–South Asia Project is helping to build the
      government’s capacity to deliver digital services and develop regionally integrated
      digital infrastructure. It will also support private sector development by opening the
      telecommunications market.




      PROJECT SPOTLIGHT
      Digital Youth Summit advances Pakistan’s tech revolution
      In April 2018, 5,000 students participated in the annual Digital Youth Summit orga-
      nized in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The summit, spearheaded
      and supported by the World Bank since 2014, grew out of an idea of bringing
      together the next generation of digital innovators to educate and inspire youth in
      a conflict-affected region where 50 percent of people are under 30.
          Given a lack of infrastructure and an anemic private sector in Khyber Pakh-
      tunkhwa, the World Bank and the provincial government are working together
      to promote the digital economy as an avenue for job creation. The prevalence of
      mobile broadband and devices has led to increasing internet connectivity, creat-
      ing opportunities in digital freelancing, entrepreneurship, and business process
      outsourcing (BPO) to drive job creation and boost prosperity for young women
      and men. Several burgeoning local firms have already grown to become successful
      job-creating ventures with clients across Pakistan.
          The summit also brings potential investors from the outsourcing industry to
      showcase new initiatives planned in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa—most notably BPO-
      ready spaces in Peshawar, as well as Pakistan Digital City, an outsourcing facility
      planned in Haripur that will accommodate around 5,000 outsourcing jobs. Both
      the BPO-ready spaces and Pakistan Digital City are being supported by World Bank
      funding and technical assistance, and investors are ready to invest, attracted by the
      abundance of competitive and dynamic labor and available facilities.




68	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 13  SOUTH ASIA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND
Total population (millions)	                              1,387	        1,631	      1,788 	
Population growth (annual %)	                               1.9	         1.4	         1.2	
GNI per capita (Atlas method,
                                                           440	 1,160	1,743
current US$)	                                                              	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           2.2	         7.5	         5.2	
Population living below $1.90 a day
                                                           555b	402	257
(millions)	                                                            	
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                  64	          68	          70	
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    62	          66	          67	
Youth literacy rate, females
                                                            63	 77	86
(% ages 15–24)	                                                      	
Youth literacy rate, males
                                                            80	 87	90
(% ages 15–24)	                                                      	
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                       1,181	      1,969	       2,516	
MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
                                                          38.6b	24.7	15.1
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	                                            	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
                                                            51	 42	35
height for age (% children under 5)c	                                	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                          388	 228	182
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	                    	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
                                                            94	 63	48
(per 1,000 live births)	                                             	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
                                                            70	 88	93
(% relevant age group)	                                                                  	
SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate                              39	 36	36
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	                                                               	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
                                                             8	 20	19
women in national parliaments (% total)	                                                 	
SDG 6.1 Access to at least basic water
                                                            82	 86	88
services (% population)	                                             	
SDG 6.2 Access to at least basic sanitation
                                                            24	 39	46
services (% population)	                                             	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
                                                            57	 75	86
(% population)	                                                                          	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
                                                            53	 42	38
(% total final energy consumption)	                                                      	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
                                                             0	 7	26
(% population)	                                                                          	
Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.	 The most current data available between 2013 and 2017; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.	2002 data. For poverty estimates, see the regional groups on http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/data.aspx.
c.	 For prevalence of stunting, all income levels are covered.




    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/sar and
    data.worldbank.org/country.



	                                                                                              THE REGIONS 	          69
      Strengthening Operations,
      Policies, and Processes




      The World Bank is firmly committed to becoming an organization that is more agile,
      efficient, and effective. Over the past fiscal year, it has continued to improve its
      operations, policies, and processes to better serve its member countries.


      The Agile Bank Program
      The Agile Bank Program was launched in late 2016 to improve ways of working and
      promote a culture of continuous improvement through a staff-driven approach.
      Its goal is to enhance client value through more efficient resource allocation and
      empowered staff.
         The Agile approach is an iterative process to make continuous improvement
      through incremental gains. New ideas are incubated, tested, rolled out if they work,
      and discarded if they do not. In fiscal 2018, a community of 200 Agile Champions—
      from across all operational units—was established to accelerate the testing and
      mainstreaming of the Agile approach. Although the program is still in a relatively
      nascent phase, hundreds of staff were engaged through training, testing of ideas,
      and awareness-raising activities. Task team leaders tested Agile innovations in over
      230 operations, while more than 15 ideas completed the testing phase and are
      being mainstreamed. These include more focused project documentation, stream-
      lined meetings, and a more efficient way to co-create solutions with clients. Dele-
      gated restructuring and a new multiphase programmatic approach to lending were
      mainstreamed and influenced by the Agile Program. Preliminary data from a subset
      of pilot projects show potential improvements on project quality, staff time rede-
      ployed to higher value activities, and faster delivery of projects.


      Simplifying the way the Bank works
      The World Bank has simplified the way its staff works through streamlining, stan-
      dardizing, and automating processes to make systems more user-friendly and infor-
      mation more easily accessible. Among these measures, expenditure management
      processes have been simplified; 20 human resources processes have been auto-
      mated; an eSignature solution has been introduced to accelerate the signing of
      legal documents; apps have been developed to facilitate approvals, transactions,
      and access to operational and administrative policies; and current budget informa-
      tion has been made available to all budget holders online. The Bank’s IT infrastruc-
      ture has been improved through new collaboration tools, a personalized workspace,
      and a simplified and decluttered intranet, while technology such as robotics is
      being leveraged to render transaction-heavy processes more efficient. The Bank is
      also implementing a shared services strategy to find further efficiencies.


70	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Improving the design and use of trust funds
The World Bank manages a portfolio of 751 trust funds, which serve as an import-
ant source of development finance and partnership. Complementing IDA and IBRD
financing, trust funds account for about 10 percent of the Bank’s disbursements
to its clients, and they are critical to the knowledge agenda, financing about two-
thirds of all Advisory Services and Analytics activities. Although they provide vital
support, the purpose, focus, and alignment with the World Bank’s top priorities vary
among trust funds. The largest of them are clearly linked to high priorities for the
Bank. The long tail of smaller, highly customized trust funds—the 70 percent that
account for only 7 percent of the total value of the Bank’s trust fund portfolio—are
more fragmented, making a clear link to priorities and managing tradeoffs more
difficult. They also have higher transaction costs for their establishment, fundrais-
ing, governance, and reporting requirements.
    The World Bank has been working to strengthen the link between funding and
strategic priorities and to improve efficiencies by organizing its portfolio around two
main instruments: larger trust funded programs (“Umbrella 2.0”), with a strong focus
on results; and simpler, more nimble trust funds using fully standardized governance,
reporting, and results features. The larger programs would lower transaction costs
through coordinated governance and reporting, and elevate the dialogue with part-
ners around shared priorities and mutually desirable outcomes. The Bank is imple-
menting these reforms in an iterative process. Roll-out of the new instruments will
start with a pilot phase in the second half of calendar year 2018, with lessons learned
informing the final design of the program, before a Bank-wide launch in mid-2019.


    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/en/publication/trust-fund
    -annual-report-2017.



The World Bank Environmental and Social Framework
The World Bank is launching a new Environmental and Social Framework (ESF)
in October 2018. The ESF will progressively replace the current Safeguard Poli-
cies for Investment Project Finance operations, with the two operating in parallel
for about seven years. The ESF offers broader and more systematic coverage of
environmental and social risks, including issues such as labor, climate change, and
stakeholder engagement.
    Ahead of the launch, intensive preparation and trainings have been imple-
mented. Bank environmental and social specialists are working with government
officials, project implementation staff, and key stakeholders—including civil soci-
ety, the private sector, universities and training centers, and in-country bilateral
agencies—to deepen their understanding of the ESF and its requirements. Inter-
nally, a management information system to track and manage environmental and
social risks is being developed, while guidance materials, good practice notes, tem-
plates, and other resources are being created and will be updated over time based
upon implementation experience.
    Training is being offered to Bank management and staff and includes eLearning
and in-person workshops on application of the ESF through case studies. More
than 900 staff have completed the training. The Bank is also working with develop-
ment partners to harmonize environmental and social risk management approaches
across institutions.


    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/esf.


	                        STRENGTHENING OPERATIONS, POLICIES, AND PROCESSES 	              71
      The World Bank’s Grievance Redress Service
      The Grievance Redress Service (GRS) is an avenue for people and communities who
      believe a World Bank–funded project has caused or will likely cause them harm to
      raise their concerns directly at the Bank’s corporate level. By fostering dialogue and
      acting as a facilitator in conflict resolution, the GRS embodies the Bank’s emphasis
      on proactive problem-solving and has become an effective complement to mech-
      anisms at the project level and the Inspection Panel. Since its creation in 2015,
      the GRS has collaborated with operational teams across the Bank in working with
      complainants to understand their concerns, and identify and monitor actions to
      resolve them. Building on its growing experience and track record, the GRS is well
      positioned to support operational teams in early identification, assessment, and
      resolution of complaints and in channeling knowledge garnered through this work
      to help identify systemic issues and devise appropriate solutions.



       For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/grs.




      The World Bank Procurement Framework
      The World Bank’s Procurement Framework, effective since 2016, plays a strategic
      role in helping countries achieve better development outcomes in implementing
      Investment Project Finance operations. It uses a fit-for-purpose approach to allow
      countries to develop procurement strategies that are tailored to their specific needs,
      unique characteristics, diverse markets, and project development objectives.
         Progress has been made in the implementation of the new framework. All new
      projects using the framework now prepare Project Procurement Strategies for
      Development, strategy documents that assess a project’s operating context, the
      potential impact on procurement, and market conditions, and help to develop
      procurement arrangements based on these assessments. The use of Alternative
      Procurement Arrangements, one of the framework’s new features to help coun-
      tries strengthen their national institutions and improve efficiency, is also underway.
      Bhutan’s Thimphu Thromde and India’s Power Grid are among the first borrower
      agencies whose procurement rules and procedures shall be relied upon in future
      World Bank–financed investment projects. Another new feature is the Hands-On
      Expanded Implementation Support, which helps to expedite project implementa-
      tion by offering additional Bank procurement support as appropriate. This arrange-
      ment has been used in an emergency health project in Papua New Guinea and
      a disaster risk management project in Myanmar, and is planned for use in other
      countries, especially those with fragile or conflict-affected environments.
         To date, 202 investment projects valued at $20 billion are or will be subject to
      the new Procurement Framework, along with 107 small recipient-executed trust
      fund investment projects worth $137 million. To ensure smooth implementation,
      several guidance notes to operational teams, borrowers, and the private sector have
      been developed. Numerous global outreach efforts have taken place to disseminate
      the framework’s new features, and participating companies consistently confirm
      that it has helped to create a stronger enabling environment for business.



        For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/procurement.




72	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Maintaining a Socially and
Environmentally Responsible
Institution




The World Bank is committed to ensuring that the institution is on a sustainable
path. By implementing its Corporate Responsibility Strategic Plan, the Bank system-
atically addresses environmental impacts from day-to-day operations, utilizing a
set of Sustainability Principles as its guide. This commitment is also reflected in the
workplace environment that the Bank aims to create with its People Strategy and in
the expectations that it sets for staff. These concepts are embedded in the World
Bank Group’s (WBG) Core Values, which were refreshed this fiscal year.


Our values
The WBG concluded an extensive internal consultation to revisit its Core Values,
which define how Bank Group staff engage with partners and each other. They are:

•  Impact—We help our clients solve their greatest development challenges.
•  Integrity—We do what is right.
•  Respect—We care for our people, our clients, our partners, and our planet.
•  Teamwork—We work together to achieve our goals.
•  Innovation—We learn and adapt to find better ways of doing things.

    A new Code of Conduct to integrate these values into the Bank Group’s culture
and work is being prepared and staff trainings will be revised.


Our people
The World Bank’s 12,216 full-time staff are the source of the solutions to the most
pressing development challenges. The current WBG People Strategy aims to build a
workforce with the right skills, in the right place, at the right time, and who can offer
the best solutions to clients, and to strengthen the employment value proposition to
make the World Bank the best place to work in development.
    Working in challenging environments. The World Bank is on track to meet
its IDA18 commitment to increase its footprint in fragile, conflict-, and violence-
affected countries by 150 staff by the end of fiscal 2020. Support and incentives for
staff working in the most difficult places have been strengthened by tailored learn-
ing programs, close monitoring and management of career development, compen-
sation commensurate with the assumed risks, and enhanced counseling support
and security infrastructure.
    Increasing diversity and inclusion. In fiscal 2018, the World Bank Group
received the Economic Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE) global certification



	    MAINTAINING A SOCIALLY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION 	                   73
      for both its headquarters and country offices. The World Bank’s headquarters com-
      pleted the EDGE recertification by demonstrating progress in the areas of senior
      management gender parity, effectiveness of flexible work policies, promotion of
      equal pay for equivalent work, and inclusive culture. The Bank also established the
      Disability Advocacy and Resource Group as an affinity network for staff and family
      members with disabilities to promote better integration into the WBG community,
      create a sense of belonging, and encourage institutional support and acceptance.
         Addressing harassment. Gender equality is one of the World Bank Group’s stra-
      tegic priorities. Anyone who commits sexual harassment, exploitation, or abuse is in
      clear contradiction of the Bank Group’s values. Although rules banning sexual mis-
      conduct are in place, the Bank Group is conducting an external review to ensure that
      they remain in line with best practices. The Bank Group has recently clarified staff
      rules regarding sexual misconduct, exploitation, or abuse. Staff members have also
      been encouraged to more readily report cases of sexual harassment. Complainants
      are provided with the necessary tools and support to assist them in recovering and
      moving forward after experiencing such forms of misconduct. Preventing sexual mis-
      conduct is linked to the Bank Group’s core values of integrity, respect, and teamwork.
         Supporting health and wellness. In a proactive approach to employee health,
      the World Bank Group introduced online health and wellness services to all eligible
      staff, retirees, and their dependents. The program is expected to improve personal
      health outcomes by providing health risk management support. An onsite primary
      clinic was established at headquarters that provides primary care services to staff,
      dependents, and retirees, as well as urgent and preventative services to visiting
      country office staff and dependents. A 24/7 multilingual crisis counseling hotline
      was also launched to provide support to WBG staff and dependents worldwide.
         Refreshing learning resources. New staff-learning curriculums were launched,
      aligned with the Bank’s corporate priorities. The curriculums offer interactive activi-
      ties to raise staff awareness, operationalize corporate initiatives, and further embed
      learning into the Bank’s culture. Module topics include, for example, Maximizing
      Finance for Development; the new Environmental and Social Framework; the new
      Procurement Framework; the World Bank Group Products Learning program; and


      TABLE 14  WORLD BANK (IBRD/IDA) STAFF DATA, FISCAL 2016–18
      INDICATOR	                                     FY16	      FY17	      FY18	     Related Indicators

      Total full-time staff	                        11,421	    11,897	 12,216	       GRI 401; SDG 8
      Non-US based (%)	                              41.0	      42.0	      42.6	
      Short-term consultants/temporaries
       (FTEs)	                                       4,757	 4,948	 4,810	
      Employee engagement (%)	                        73	        80	        —	
      Diversity index	                               0.89	      0.91	      0.92	     GRI 405; SDG 8
      Female managers (%)	                            37.5	     39.0	      41.5	
      Managers from developing
        countries (%)	                               43.5	      43.3	      43.1	
      Female technical staff (grade GF+, %)	         43.9	      44.2	      44.5	
      Sub-Saharan/Caribbean technical
        staff (grade GF+, %)	                        12.2	      12.9	      13.3	
      Average days of training per staff,
        at headquarters	                              3.3	       3.7	      4.3	      GRI 404; SDG 8
      Average days of training per staff,
        in country offices	                           3.5	       4.2	      3.9	
      Note: — = not available; FTE = full-time equivalent (staff); GF+ = salary grade GF or higher, that
      is, professional; GRI = Global Reporting Initiative. There was no Engagement Survey in fiscal 2018.	




74	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Staff Conduct Essentials, including sexual harassment and conflict resolution. In
addition, as part of the Knowledge Management Action Plan to improve institutional
knowledge sharing, the Bank provides Knowledge Packages to project leaders at
the outset of new operations. This automated service, which uses machine-learning
technology, bundles highly-relevant, well-tailored knowledge for staff to prepare
the best operations for clients. To date, 540 such packages have been delivered.
      Representing staff voice. Staff rights and interests are represented by the Staff
Association (SA). More than 11,800 WBG staff and consultants globally are members
of the SA. To strengthen its global reach, the SA continues to strengthen its Country
Office Staff Associations in 90 countries through its pilot program of Regional Vol-
unteer Counselors. In fiscal 2018, the SA engaged in dialogue with human resources
and senior management, observing staff concerns about the compensation meth-
odology to protect the employee value proposition and enhance career growth. It
also focused on organizational pulse checks on issues ranging from sexual harass-
ment to health coverage, advocating to strengthen staff rights.


Our places
The World Bank actively manages the environmental, social, and economic impacts
of its internal business operations by striving for net positive impacts on the ecosys-
tems, communities, and economies where it has offices.
      Being climate aware. The World Bank measures, reduces, offsets, and reports
on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its facilities, major meetings, and cor-
porate air travel. The World Bank surpassed its GHG emissions target of reducing
facilities-based emissions by 10 percent between 2010 and 2017 and aims to intro-
duce a new target in the coming year. However, between June 2016 and July 2017,
total GHG emissions increased by 4 percent from the previous year, in part due to
improved data accountability from country offices and increased business travel
in support of the Bank’s global operations. To offset direct and indirect carbon
emissions not curtailed, the Bank purchased and retired credits totaling 117,667
metric tons CO2 equivalent covering fiscal 2017. In addition, the Bank purchased and
retired Renewable Energy Credits equivalent to the electricity use at its Washington,
DC, offices. Details are available in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) disclosure
305, and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2018 Questionnaire.



TABLE 15  SELECTED WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS, FISCAL 2016–18
    INDICATOR	                                 FY16	      FY17	      FY18	     Related Indicators

    Absolute GHG emissions (metric tons 				                                   GRI 305; CDP
      of CO2 equivalent)a	              143,066	 148,184	 —	                   C6; SDG 13
    Global energy use (GJ)b	             492,626	506,156	 —	 GRI 302; CDP
    Global energy use intensity (GJ/m2)b	0.80	0.81	 —	 C8.2; SDG 7
    Waste diverted from landfill (%)c 	          57	       57	        57	      GRI 306; SDG 12
    Total PCW paper use (both copy
      paper and print shop, %)c 	                62	       60	        50	      GRI 301; SDG 12
Note: — = not available; CDP = Carbon Disclosure Project; CDP CC = CDP’s Climate Change
indicators; GHG = greenhouse gas; GJ = gigajoule; GJ/m2 = gigajoule per square meter; GRI =
Global Reporting Initiative; PCW = postconsumer waste.
a.	Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide and include Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions
    and lag by one fiscal year. Due to changes in emissions factors and errors within the data
    management system, the World Bank Group base year calculations have been restated, and
    details have been captured in the Inventory Management Plan, available on the Corporate
    Responsibility website.
b.	Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide and include electricity, stationary combustion,
    and mobile combustion.
c.	 Data are for Washington, DC, offices only.


	      MAINTAINING A SOCIALLY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION 	                         75
         Designing sustainable sites. In fiscal 2018, the World Bank Group Islamabad
      office earned LEED Gold certification, joining nine other Bank offices with simi-
      lar certified sustainable building standards. Overall there was a slight increase in
      energy use in the Bank’s 135 global locations mainly due to greater reliance on
      onsite generator fuel in the Afghanistan office and higher electricity use in the
      London and Chennai offices.
         Improving waste diversion. In fiscal 2018, the Bank piloted a bin-less waste
      removal system and surveyed waste management practices in its Washington, DC,
      offices. To date, the bin-less pilot has increased the amount of waste that is recycled
      and composted, with only 20 percent sent to the landfill. Results from this pilot and
      the previously implemented central sorting and composting program are informing
      a new HQ-wide waste management standard. Across the Washington, DC, offices,
      the waste diversion rate remained at 57 percent in fiscal 2018. Waste disposal rates
      in country offices are available based on country context and currently anecdotal.
      The Bank is working to strengthen this data point.
         Building a principled supply chain. In line with institutional commitments to
      gender equality, the World Bank Group announced a goal of doubling corporate
      procurement from women-owned businesses to 7 percent of total procurement
      spend by 2023. This focus on supplier diversity is one component of a sustainable
      procurement framework currently under development to integrate sustainability
      throughout the corporate procurement process. In fiscal 2018, the Bank Group was
      also awarded a 2018 Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT)
      Purchaser Award at the two-star level by the Green Electronics Council, a program
      recognizing excellence in the procurement of sustainable electronics.




       For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility.




76	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Ensuring Accountability and
Monitoring Operations




The World Bank holds itself accountable to its clients and shareholders through insti-
tutional mechanisms that monitor operational performance. These include the Cor-
porate Scorecard, the IDA Results Measurement System, and regular opportunities
to discuss progress on operations with the Bank’s Executive Directors. The Bank also
benefits from the expertise of key units within and independent of the institution.


Independent Evaluation Group
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) aims to strengthen the World Bank Group’s
development effectiveness through evaluations that assess results and performance
and recommend improvements. IEG’s evaluations contribute to accountability and
learning and inform the Bank Group’s new directions, policies and procedures, and
country partnership frameworks. IEG’s Results and Performance of the World Bank
Group 2017 report assessed the Bank Group’s efforts to mainstream environmental
sustainability in its country- and project-level work, showing a 4 percent increase
in mainstreaming environmental sustainability across its activities. The report also
found that 73 percent of World Bank projects completed between fiscal 2014–16
achieved moderately satisfactory or better development outcome ratings. This rep-
resents a 3 percent improvement from the previous review period (fiscal 2011–13)
but remains below the target of 75 percent.
     In fiscal 2018, IEG completed 10 major evaluations, each of which assessed the
World Bank Group’s performance and identified lessons for improving Bank Group
operations regarding a theme, sector, or corporate process. IEG also prepared two
country program evaluations (on Rwanda and Mexico), which reviewed the effec-
tiveness of World Bank Group development support over the last 10 years and
extracted lessons for future engagements in these and similar countries.



    For more information and IEG’s annual report, visit ieg.worldbankgroup.org.




Inspection Panel
The Inspection Panel was established by the World Bank’s Executive Directors as an
independent complaints mechanism for people and communities who believe that
they have been, or are likely to be, harmed by a project funded by the IBRD or IDA.
The panel is composed of three members from different countries who are chosen
for their international development expertise, and a small secretariat.


	                      ENSURING ACCOUNTABILIT Y AND MONITORING OPERATIONS 	              77
         During fiscal 2018, the panel received seven complaints and delivered to the
      Board an investigation report on a case from the Democratic Republic of Congo.
      Additionally, the World Bank’s Global Gender-Based Violence (GBV) Task Force,
      created following the panel’s 2016 investigation into the Uganda Transport Sec-
      tor Development Project, released its recommendations on how to prevent and
      address GBV in Bank-supported projects. As part of its role in promoting institu-
      tional learning and improving the development effectiveness of Bank operations,
      the panel delivered the fourth report in its series drawing on lessons from its nearly
      25-year caseload. The latest report covered cases involving the issues of consulta-
      tion, participation, and disclosure of information.


       For more information and the Inspection Panel’s annual report, visit
       www.worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.



      Integrity Vice Presidency
      The Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) investigates World Bank Group–financed proj-
      ects for sanctionable practices, including fraud and corruption; pursues sanctions;
      identifies integrity risks; and draws lessons for future operations, reflecting the Bank
      Group’s ongoing commitment to fight corruption and prevent it before it occurs.
      INT’s Integrity Compliance Office engages with sanctioned companies that are
      working toward meeting conditions for release from sanctions. INT has strength-
      ened its preventive role through efforts such as hosting integrity compliance work-
      shops and working closely with WBG task team leaders to design measures to
      mitigate fraud and corruption risks in projects.
         INT plays a fundamental role in the World Bank Group’s robust two-tiered adju-
      dicative system designed to fight corruption and protect the integrity of Bank
      Group financing while offering suspected parties an opportunity to respond to
      the allegations against them. The system’s adjudicators—with the Bank’s Office of
      Suspension and Debarment and IFC’s and MIGA’s counterparts at the first tier, and
      the WBG Sanctions Board at the second tier—review sanctions cases brought by
      INT, provide due process to suspected parties, and suspend and sanction firms and
      individuals found to have engaged in misconduct. In fiscal 2018, the World Bank
      Group sanctioned 83 firms and individuals and recognized 73 cross-debarments
      from other multilateral development banks (MDBs). Sixty-six Bank Group debar-
      ments were eligible for recognition by other MDBs in fiscal 2018.


       For more information and INT’s annual report, visit
       www.worldbank.org/integrity.



      Internal Audit Vice Presidency
      The Internal Audit Vice Presidency (IAD) reviews the World Bank Group’s processes
      from an independent and objective standpoint to help improve its operations. In
      alignment with the Bank Group’s strategy, IAD conducts reviews of new initiatives
      and the most significant risks to the organization. Through the reviews, IAD pro-
      vides advice on the Bank Group’s risk management capability, and identifies gaps
      and weaknesses in internal controls. It works with management to develop correc-
      tive action plans, and follows up on those plans to ensure they are implemented by
      the agreed date.




78	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
     In fiscal 2018, IAD conducted assurance and advisory reviews in development
operations, corporate processes, and information technology and data manage-
ment. Some topics that were covered include the Bank’s Anti-Money Laundering
and Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML-CFT) program, corporate procure-
ment, and information security.


    For more information and IAD’s annual and quarterly reports, visit
    www.worldbank.org/internalaudit.




The World Bank Policy on Access to Information
Introduced in 2010, the World Bank’s Policy on Access to Information (AI Policy)
has made it a more effective development partner. Based on the concept that any
information in the Bank’s possession should be accessible to the public, except
for that which falls under a defined list of exceptions, the AI Policy remains the
standard for international development institutions. It has also provided the basis
for the accompanying open initiatives—including Open Data, Open Finances, the
Open Knowledge Repository, and the Open Archives—all of which make the Bank’s
work more transparent, accessible, and accountable.
     For requests that are denied, the public can appeal by alleging a violation of
policy and/or public interest. The internal Access to Information Committee serves
as the first level for all appeals, and its decisions are final for appeals alleging a pub-
lic interest ground. A second and final recourse for appeals alleging a violation of
policy is available through the external and independent Appeals Board, consisting
of three international experts.
     In fiscal 2018, the Bank handled 675 public access requests for information and
received more than 3.5 million visits to and 20 million downloads from the Docu-
ments and Reports database.


    For more information and to submit public access requests for information to
    the World Bank, visit www.worldbank.org/en/access-to-information.




	                      ENSURING ACCOUNTABILIT Y AND MONITORING OPERATIONS 	                   79
      Deploying Resources Strategically


      Prioritizing strategic interventions across the World Bank Group
      The World Bank’s principal institutions—the International Bank for Reconstruction
      and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—
      work in ever-closer coordination with the International Finance Corporation (IFC)
      and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) to leverage the collective
      strength of the World Bank Group (WBG) for the benefit of its partner countries.
      The comparative advantage of the WBG comes from the powerful combination of
      country depth and global breadth, public and private sector instruments and rela-
      tionships, multisectoral knowledge, and the ability to mobilize and leverage financ-
      ing. Collaboration across IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA has grown over time, and spans a
      range of activities at the regional, country, sector, and thematic levels.
         World Bank experts are organized across teams of Global Practices, which focus
      on key technical areas of development, as well as Global Themes, composed of
      teams working to deliver on cross-cutting corporate priority areas, such as climate
      change, gender, fragility, infrastructure, public private partnerships, and guaran-
      tees. Collaboration across these teams allow for the development of comprehensive
      solutions for clients. The Bank’s teams work together with country-based staff, IFC,
      MIGA, and country partners to prioritize the WBG’s program of financial, analytical,
      advisory, and convening support, based on the Bank Group’s comparative advan-
      tage, the client’s priorities, and in response to development challenges highlighted
      in the Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD).
         The SCD identifies the barriers to eliminating extreme poverty and boosting
      shared prosperity within a country, and is carried out by the WBG before develop-
      ing a new partnership framework with a country. The diagnostic guides the devel-
      opment of the Country Partnership Framework (CPF), which outlines the strategic
      interventions and support on which the WBG and partner country will engage. This
      process has been in place since July 2014, and as of the end of this fiscal year, the
      WBG has prepared SCDs in 90 countries and new CPFs in 57 countries.


      Maintaining budget discipline to maximize the use of
      financial resources
      The World Bank Group aligns its resources through an annual strategic planning,
      budgeting, and performance review exercise, called the “W” process for its three
      top-down decision points and two bottom-up input phases:

      W1: 	
           Considering external factors and clients’ demands, senior management sets
            strategic planning priorities.
      W2: 	 Vice-presidential units (VPUs) review and respond to corporate priorities.
      W3: 	
           Senior management refines the guidance on priorities for each World Bank
            Group institution.
      W4: 	
           VPUs develop work programs in response to determined priorities and
            planned budget envelopes.
      W5: 	
           Senior management for each institution separately review VPU-level allo-
            cations and agree on aggregate budget proposals. The Board reviews and
            approves budgets for the next fiscal year.


80	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
    The World Bank Group has made significant progress in aligning its budget to
address development priorities, to reinforce selectivity and efficient delivery, and
to maintain budget sustainability. It has done so through a combination of reve-
nue expansion and spending containment measures that include completing an
Expenditure Review that saved $400 million. The World Bank has also implemented
new sustainability principles and budget indicators that allow for administrative
expenses to be covered by revenues generated from operations, and realigned its
budget with strategic priorities. The Bank Group is committed to continued finan-
cial sustainability, strategic alignment, and efficiency.
    During the fiscal 2019–21 planning period, the Bank Group will focus on prior-
ities arising from the organization’s goals of ending extreme poverty and boost-
ing shared prosperity, as set out in its Forward Look strategy. Specific priorities
include: support for client-facing work, particularly for the IDA18 scale-up and areas
affected by fragility, conflict, and violence, and for meeting the IBRD capital increase
policy commitments; the Bank Group–wide partnership to crowd in private sec-
tor investment and create new markets to maximize finance for development; a
renewed focus on human capital and on enhancing the Bank Group’s leadership
on global issues; and improvement of the business model for greater effectiveness
and efficiency.


IBRD financial commitments and services
IBRD is a global development cooperative owned by its 189 member countries.
As the largest multilateral development bank in the world, it provides loans, guar-
antees, risk management products, and advisory services to middle-income and
­
creditworthy low-income countries, and coordinates responses to regional and
global challenges.
    In fiscal 2018, new IBRD lending commitments amounted to $23.0 billion for
124 operations, of which two were IBRD and IDA blended operations.


TABLE 16  IBRD COMMITMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2014–18
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

REGION	                                  FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17	FY18

Africa	                                   420	1,209	 669	 1,163	 1,120
East Asia and Pacific	                  4,181	 4,539	 5,176	 4,404	 3,981
Europe and Central Asia	                4,729	 6,679	 7,039	 4,569	 3,550
Latin America and the Caribbean	        4,609	 5,709	 8,035	 5,373	 3,898
Middle East and North Africa	           2,588	 3,294	 5,170	 4,869	 5,945
South Asia	                             2,077	2,098	3,640	2,233	4,508
Total	                                 18,604	23,528	29,729	 22,611	23,002



TABLE 17  IBRD DISBURSEMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2014–18
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

REGION	                                  FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17	FY18

Africa	                                   335	 816	874	427	734
East Asia and Pacific	                  3,397	 3,596	 5,205	 3,961	 3,476
Europe and Central Asia	                6,536	 5,829	 5,167	 2,799	 4,134
Latin America and the Caribbean	        5,662	 5,726	 5,236	 3,885	 4,066
Middle East and North Africa	           1,666	 1,779	 4,427	 5,335	 3,281
South Asia	                             1,165	1,266	1,623	1,454	1,698
Total	                                 18,761	 19,012	22,532	 17,861	 17,389


	                                            DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	           81
         For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
      the World Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the
      sectors and themes into which it directs its resources. Sector codes reflect high-
      level groupings of economic activities based on the types of goods and services
      produced, and are used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by
      the Bank’s intervention. Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-
      supported activities and are used to capture the Bank’s support to the Sustainable
      Development Goals.




      TABLE 18  IBRD COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2014–18
      MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

      SECTOR	                                        FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17	FY18

      Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	             829	   843	   561	   754	 2,561
      Education	                                    1,192	1,496	1,788	 1,074	1,685
      Energy and Extractives	                       2,359	 3,361	 4,599	 4,434	 3,084
      Financial Sector	                             1,360	3,433	2,657	1,879	 764
      Health	                                         793	 893	 1,181	 1,189	2,204
      Industry, Trade, and Services 	               1,106	 1,684	 3,348	 2,694	 3,416
      Information and Communications
       Technologies	                                  262	    90	   194	    503	   324
      Public Administration 	                       4,162	 3,175	  5,111	 4,754	 2,189
      Social Protection 	                           1,006	 2,687	 1,393	    778	 2,091
      Transportation	                               4,089	3,202	4,569	2,551	 2,074
      Water, Sanitation, and Waste
         Management	                                1,447	2,664	 4,192	2,000	 2,610
      Total	                                      18,604	23,528	29,729	 22,611	23,002
      Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories
      have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year
      data reported here have been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match
      figures published in previous annual reports. Please visit www.projects.worldbank.org/sector for more
      information on changes.




      TABLE 19  IBRD COMMITMENTS BY THEME, FISCAL 2017–18
      MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

      THEME	                                                                          FY17	FY18

      Economic Policy	                                                               1,677	  1,124
      Environment and Natural Resources Management 	                                 7,237	 10,409
      Finance	                                                                       3,330	2,501
      Human Development and Gender 	                                                 2,687	  6,641
      Private Sector Development 	                                                   5,741	  4,945
      Public Sector Management	                                                      3,516	  1,353
      Social Development and Protection 	                                              939	  2,844
      Urban and Rural Development	                                                   5,937	  8,593
      Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an inter-
      nal data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied
      to multiple theme categories, figures organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year commitment
      totals, and therefore should not be summed. Past fiscal year theme data have been remapped but
      not revised according to the new methodology. As they are no longer directly comparable, historical
      data are not included here. Please visit www.projects.worldbank.org/theme for more information on
      changes.




82	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 20  IBRD TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2018
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
    COUNTRY	              COMMITMENTS	COUNTRY	                            COMMITMENTS

    India	                        3,453	Iraq	                                      1,110
    Egypt, Arab Rep.	             2,180	 Argentina	                               1,000
    Indonesia	                    1,800	Tunisia	                                    930
    China	                        1,788	Pakistan	                                   855
    Turkey	                       1,492	Colombia	                                   702



IBRD financial resources and financial model
To fund development projects in member countries, IBRD finances its loans from its
own equity and from money borrowed in the capital markets through the issuance
of IBRD bonds. IBRD is rated Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by Standard & Poor’s, and
investors view its bonds as high-quality securities. Its funding strategy is aimed at
achieving the best long-term value on a sustainable basis for borrowing members.
IBRD’s ability to intermediate the funds it raises in international capital markets to
developing member countries is important in helping to achieve its goals.
      All IBRD bonds support sustainable development. IBRD issues its securities
through both global offerings and bond issues tailored to the needs of specific mar-
kets or investor types. Its bonds connect the private and public sectors to the IBRD’s
development goals through investors such as asset managers, insurance companies,
pension funds, central banks, corporations, and bank treasuries from around the
world. IBRD issues bonds to investors in various currencies, maturities, and markets,
and at fixed and variable terms. It often opens new markets for international inves-
tors by issuing new products or bonds in emerging market currencies. IBRD’s annual
funding volumes vary from year to year.
      IBRD’s strategy has enabled it to borrow at favorable market terms and pass the
savings on to its borrowing members. Funds not immediately deployed for lending
are held in IBRD’s investment portfolio to provide liquidity for its operations. In fiscal
2018, IBRD raised US dollar equivalent (USDeq) $36.0 billion by issuing bonds in
27 currencies.
      As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn
enough income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activ-
ities. Of fiscal 2018 allocable net income, the Executive Directors recommended
to the Board of Governors the transfer of $248 million to IDA and the allocation of
$913 million to the General Reserve. As part of its lending, borrowing, and investment
activities, IBRD is exposed to market, counterparty, country credit, and operational



FIGURE 8  IBRD BUSINESS MODEL


                                    Equity
                                                                                   IDA and trust funds




                                    Loans
     Borrowings




                                                                       Income




                                Investments



                        Other development activities




	                                             DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	                        83
      TABLE 21  IBRD KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2014–18
      MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES

      INDICATOR	                                    FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17	FY18

      Lending highlights					
       Commitmentsa	         18,604	23,528	29,729	 22,61 1	23,002
       Gross disbursementsb	 18,761	 19,012	22,532	 17,861	 17,389
       Net disbursementsb	    8,948	 9,999	13,197	 8,731	 5,638

      Reported basis					
       Income statement					
       Board of Governors-approved
         and other transfers	      (676)	 (715)	 (705)	 (497)	 (178)
       Net income/(loss)	          (978)	 (786)	   495	 (237)	  698

        Balance sheet					
        Total assets	             358,883	343,225	 371,260	405,898	403,056
        Net investment portfolio	  42,708	 45,105	 51,760	 71,667	 73,492
        Net loans outstanding	    151,978	 155,040	 167,643	 177,422	 183,588
        Borrowing portfolio	      152,643	 158,853	 178,231	 207,144	 213,652

      Allocable income					
       Allocable income	           769	 686	 593	 795	 1,161
       Allocated as follows:					
         General Reservec	           0	 36	 96	672	 913
         International Development
         Associationd	             635	650	497	123	248
          Surplus	                 134	0	0	0	0

      Capital adequacy				
       Usable equity e	             40,467	40,195	39,424	41,720	43,518
       Equity-to-loans ratio (%) f	   25.7	 25.1	22.7	22.8	22.9
      Note: For a complete presentation of fiscal year data, see the full financial statements: www
      .worldbank.org/financialresults.
      a.	Commitments include guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities that have been approved
          by the Executive Directors of the World Bank.
      b.	 Amounts include transactions with the International Finance Corporation and loan origination fees.
      c.	The June 30, 2018, amount represents the proposed transfer to the General Reserve from fiscal
          2018 net income, which was approved on August 9, 2018, by the Executive Directors.
      d.	On August 9, 2018, the Executive Directors recommended to the Board of Governors of the Inter-
          national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) a transfer of $248 million to the Inter-
          national Development Association.
      e.	Usable equity is comprised of usable paid-in capital and elements of retained earnings and
          reserves.
      f.	Equity-to-loans ratio compares IBRD’s usable equity against its current exposures to evaluate its
          capital adequacy. The current minimum threshold is 20 percent.



      risks. The World Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer leads the risk oversight function
      and supports the institutional decision-making process via dedicated risk commit-
      tees. In addition, IBRD has put in place a strong risk management framework, which
      supports management in its oversight functions. The framework is designed to
      enable and support IBRD in achieving its goals in a financially sustainable manner.
      One summary measure of IBRD’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is
      closely managed in line with its financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 22.9
      percent as of June 30, 2018.
         At the 2018 Spring Meetings, the Development Committee of the Board of Gov-
      ernors endorsed a package of measures that include a $13 billion paid-in capital
      increase for the World Bank Group, including $7.5 billion for IBRD, as well as a $52.6
      billion increase in callable capital for IBRD. The boost in capital is augmented by a
      broad range of internal measures to create an even stronger World Bank Group.


84	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
Draft resolutions on the capital increase were sent to the Governors for formal
approval in June 2018. As of June 30, 2018, the cumulative subscribed capital of
IBRD totaled $274.7 billion, including $16.5 billion paid-in capital.



    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/ibrd.




IDA financial commitments and services
The International Development Association (IDA) is the world’s largest multilateral
source of concessional financing for the poorest countries. It provides financing in
the form of development loans, grants, and guarantees to support these countries’
efforts to increase economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve the living con-
ditions of the poor.
     In fiscal 2018, 75 countries were eligible for IDA assistance. In addition, three
countries—Bolivia, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam, which graduated at the end of the IDA17
cycle—are receiving exceptional transitional support from IDA. New IDA lending
commitments amounted to $24.0 billion for 207 operations, of which two were
IBRD and IDA blended operations. These commitments included $18.5 billion in
credits, $5.0 billion in grants, and $463 million in guarantees. In addition, 12 proj-
ects and one program were supported under the IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector
Window (PSW) for a total of $185 million.



TABLE 22  IDA COMMITMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2014–18
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

REGION	                                    FY14	 FY15	 FY16	FY17	FY18

Africa	                                  10,193	 10,360	 8,677	10,679	 15,411
East Asia and Pacific	                     2,131	 1,803	 2,324	 2,703	    631
Europe and Central Asia	                    798	    527	   233	   739	    957
Latin America and the Caribbean	            460	    315	   183	   503	   428
Middle East and North Africa	               199	    198	    31	  1,011	  430
South Asia	                               8,458	  5,762	 4,723	 3,828	  6,153
Total	                                  22,239	 18,966	 16,171	19,463a	24,010b
   Figure does not include the commitment of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency
a. 
   Financing Facility.
   Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA
b. 
   has exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in derivatives.




TABLE 23  IDA DISBURSEMENTS, BY REGION, FISCAL 2014–18
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

REGION	                                     FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17	FY18

Africa	                                    6,604	 6,595	 6,813	6,623	 8,206
East Asia and Pacific	                     1,459	 1,499	 1,204	 1,145	 1,252
Europe and Central Asia	                     519	   314	   365	   310	   298
Latin America and the Caribbean	             306	   383	   303	   229	   223
Middle East and North Africa	                273	   194	    44	   391	   569
South Asia	                                4,271	 3,919	 4,462	 3,970	 3,835
Total	                                    13,432	 12,905	 13,191	12,668a	14,383
   Figure does not include the disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency
a. 
   Financing Facility.



	                                                DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	               85
          For monitoring, reporting, and better decision making about its commitments,
      the World Bank applies a taxonomy of codes to all lending operations to reflect the
      sectors and themes into which it directs its resources. Sector codes reflect high-
      level groupings of economic activities based on the types of goods and services
      produced, and are used to indicate which part of the economy is supported by
      the Bank’s intervention. Theme codes reflect the goals and objectives of Bank-sup-
      ported activities and are used to capture the Bank’s support to the Sustainable
      Development Goals.



      TABLE 24  IDA COMMITMENTS BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2014–18 
      MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

      SECTOR	                                        FY14	 FY15	 FY16	FY17a	FY18

      Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	          2,382	 2,525	           1,849	 2,025	 1,442
      Education	                                   2,426	 2,124	           1,431	1,773	 2,836
      Energy and Extractives	                      4,438	 1,461	           2,814	 1,891	 4,028
      Financial Sector	                              669	   661	             443	 1,227	   546
      Health	                                        758	 2,197	           1,191	1,246	 2,062
      Industry, Trade, and Services 	                850	   687	             841	 1,541	 1,991
      Information and Communications
       Technologies	                                 266	   265	    78	   519	   419
      Public Administration 	                      2,624	 2,744	 1,500	 1,954	 5,013
      Social Protection 	                          1,515	 1,928	 2,475	 1,913	 2,112
      Transportation	                              3,187	 2,191	2,277	  3,271	1,455
       Water, Sanitation, and Waste
        Management	                                 3,125	     2,183	      1,271	 2,102	          2,105
       Total	                                    22,239	 18,966	 16,171	19,463 	24,010b     a


      Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector categories
      have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal
      year data reported here have been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not
      match figures published in previous annual reports. Please visit www.projects.worldbank.org/sector
      for more information on changes.
         Fiscal 2017 IDA sector breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency
      a. 
         Financing Facility.
      b. Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which
          IDA has exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in derivatives.




      TABLE 25  IDA COMMITMENTS BY THEME: FISCAL 2017–18
      MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

      THEME	FY17a	FY18

      Economic Policy	                                                             1,791	   468
      Environment and Natural Resources Management 	                               5,766	 9,491
      Finance	                                                                     1,507	1,642
      Human Development and Gender 	                                               6,471	 7,509
      Private Sector Development 	                                                 4,837	 4,240
      Public Sector Management	                                                    1,936	 3,827
      Social Development and Protection 	                                          2,544	 2,980
      Urban and Rural Development	                                                 8,352	 8,654
      Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an
      internal data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can
      be applied to multiple theme categories, figures organized by theme do not add up to fiscal year
      commitment totals, and therefore should not be summed. Past fiscal year theme data have been
      remapped but not revised according to the new methodology. As they are no longer directly compa-
      rable, historical data are not included here. Please visit www.projects.worldbank.org/theme for more
      information on changes.
         Fiscal 2017 IDA theme breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency
      a. 
         Financing Facility.



86	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
TABLE 26  IDA TOP COUNTRY BORROWERS, FISCAL 2018
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
    COUNTRY	            COMMITMENTS	COUNTRY	                           COMMITMENTS

    Ethiopia	                    3,122	 Côte d’Ivoire	                                                      987
    Bangladesh	                  2,991	Tanzania	                                                            955
    Nigeria	                     2,586	Uzbekistan	                                                          740
    Pakistan	                    1,948	Nepal	                                                               706
    Kenya	                       1,280	Uganda	                                                              640


IDA financial resources and financial model
Traditionally, IDA has been funded largely by contributions from high- and middle-
income partner countries. Additional financing comes from transfers from IBRD’s
net income, grants from IFC, and borrowers’ repayments of earlier IDA credits. As
part of the groundbreaking IDA18 package, IDA shareholders agreed to transform
IDA’s financing model, leveraging its strong capital base to pioneer a new model for
development finance that combines donor funding with funding raised in the cap-
ital markets. IDA received its first-ever public credit rating—triple-A—in 2016. IDA’s
financial strength is based on its robust capital position and shareholder support,
as well as on its prudent financial policies and practices, which help to maintain its
triple-A credit rating.
    On April 17, 2018, for the first time, IDA issued $1.5 billion of debt in the inter-
national capital markets. This inaugural IDA bond received strong reception in the
market, with total orders reaching $4.6 billion from around the world. IDA’s borrow-
ing program will enable IDA to significantly scale up its support toward achieving
the Sustainable Development Goals, while offering investors an efficient way to
contribute to global development.
    Every three years, development partners meet to review IDA’s policies, assess
its financial capacity, agree on the amount of financing for the next replenish-
ment period, and commit to additional contributions of equity that are required
to meet IDA’s objectives and development goals. The Financing Framework for the
IDA18 Replenishment, which covers fiscal 2018–2020, is managed predominantly
in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs). US dollar equivalent figures given here are cal-
culated using the IDA18 reference exchange rates. Development partners agreed
to a financing envelope of $75 billion (equivalent to SDR 53 billion) to provide
credits, grants, and guarantees to IDA’s client countries. Of this amount, $63.5 bil-
lion is expected to be used on concessional terms, $9 billion on IBRD terms for the
Scale-Up Facility and transitional support, and $2.5 billion for the PSW. IDA admin-
istrative expenses are recovered primarily through the net charges and interest paid
by recipient countries.


FIGURE 9  IDA BUSINESS MODEL
                                                                             Reﬂows and operating results




      Borrowings                  Non-concessional lending


                                          Investments



        Equity
                               Concessional lending and grants




	                                            DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	                                  87
      FIGURE 10  RECENT IDA REPLENISHMENTS
      BILLIONS OF DOLLARS

                            26.4                                26.1
                                                                                                        23.1
                                                                                     21.1                            22.2

         14.6                                  14.9


                      5.3
                3.0                                   3.2 4.5          3.5                        4.1          3.9
                                   n.a. n.a.                                  n.a.          0.6

                 IDA16 FY12–14                        IDA17 FY15–17                     IDA18 FY18–20
          IDA internal resourcesa     Donor contributionsb                             Market debt
          IBRD and IFC transfers      Concessional partner loans
          Donor compensation for MDRI debt forgiveness

       Note: n.a. = not applicable. Data reﬂect ﬁnal agreed upon replenishment reports and exchange rates used
       during the replenishment discussions.
       a. IDA internal resources include principal repayments, and investment income.
       b. Net of structural ﬁnancing gap. Includes contributions to HIPC.




      TABLE 27  IDA KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2014–18
      MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

       INDICATOR	                                       FY14	 FY15	 FY16	 FY17	FY18

      Development operations					
       Commitments of loans, grants,
         and guarantees	             22,239	 18,966	 16,171	 19,513a	24,010b
       Gross disbursements of loans
         and grants	                 13,432	 12,905	 13,191	 12,718a	14,383
       Net disbursements of loans
         and grants	                  9,878	  8,820	 8,806	   8,154	  9,290

      Balance sheet					
       Total assets	             183,445	 178,685	 180,475	 197,041	 206,330
       Net investment portfolio	  28,300	  28,418	 29,908	 29,673	 33,735
       Net loans outstanding	    132,010	 126,760	 132,825	 138,351	 145,656
       Borrowings	                     0	 2,150	2,906	 3,660	7,305
       Total equity	             153,749	 147,149	 154,700	 158,476	 163,945

      Income statement					
        Interest revenue, net of
          borrowing expenses	        1,468	    1,435	   1,453	   1,521	   1,647
        Transfers from affiliated
          organizations and others	     881	     993	     990	     599	     203
        Development grants	         (2,645)	  (2,319)	 (1,232)	 (2,577)	 (4,969)
        Net income/(loss)	           (1,612)	   (731)	    371	  (2,296)	 (5,231)

      Capital Adequacy
       Deployable strategic capital
        ratio	                                           n.a.	               n.a.	   n.a.	 37.2%	 37.4%
      Note: n.a. = not applicable. For a complete presentations of fiscal year data, see the full financial
      statements: www.worldbank.org/financialresults.
         Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
      a.	
         Emergency Financing Facility.
         Figure does not include $185 million in approved IDA18 IFC-MIGA PSW instruments, of which IDA
      b.	
         has exposure of $36 million in guarantees and $9 million in derivatives.




88	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
     To support IDA18 financing, a total of 55 partners—five of which are new or
re-engaged contributing partners—have agreed to provide SDR 16.1 billion (equiv-
alent to $22.6 billion) in grants, of which SDR 0.9 billion ($1.2 billion) is the grant
element from concessional partner loan contributions. Partners are also providing
SDR 3.6 billion ($5.1 billion) in concessional partner loans, or SDR 2.7 billion ($3.8
billion) excluding the grant element of the loans, and SDR 2.9 billion ($4.1 billion) in
compensation for debt relief under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative.
     IDA18’s effectiveness was achieved in November 2017, when 60 percent of the
partner Instruments of Commitment (IoCs) and concessional loan agreements were
received. As of June 30, 2018, 48 partners had submitted IDA18 IoCs and conces-
sional loan agreements. Resources in the amount of SDR 29.0 billion (equivalent
to $40.6 billion) have been released and made available for commitments to date.



    For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/ida.




Focusing on the implications of global political and economic
policy uncertainties
The World Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer monitors the global political and eco-
nomic impacts that could affect the institution’s finances. In fiscal 2018, economic
growth in advanced economies reaccelerated, while activity in developing coun-
tries also rebounded. Uncertainty, however, remained significant, with the potential
for financial market turbulence from the following possible areas.
     Policy uncertainty in some advanced and larger developing economies contin-
ues to present an overarching risk, and there is a significant chance that economic
activity could diverge from the forecast of continued strengthening of global activ-
ity. Similarly, geopolitical tensions remain elevated, with potential impacts on finan-
cial market confidence and volatility.
     Trade growth is picking up after two years of marked weakness, although this
comes against the backdrop of new protectionist measures, prompting two key
concerns: first, whether measures are narrowly focused and largely bilateral or
whether they will be applied more generally; second, whether affected countries
respond with retaliatory trade measures setting off a cycle of escalation. Coun-
tries with open economies and dependent on trade, including many low-income
countries, would be among the most vulnerable. Increased protectionism could also
impact foreign direct investment flows to developing countries.
     The policy stance of major central banks as they move at varying paces to normal-
ize monetary policy is another source of uncertainty. Market interest rate expectations
could adjust abruptly in response to higher inflation or fiscal policy developments,
affecting both interest rates and risk appetite. The most vulnerable countries are
those dependent on investments to finance large current accounts and/or fiscal
imbalances. Divergence from monetary policy expectations could also lead to further
exchange rate movements. Corporate sectors that need to service large unhedged
foreign currency borrowing could face stress in the face of sharp exchange rate
moves. In some countries, large contingent liabilities could also be a source of risk.




	                                            DEPLOYING RESOURCES STRATEGICALLY 	           89
Committed to Results

The World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by provid-
ing financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private sectors. Deliver-
ing integrated solutions to help countries address their development challenges requires a
focus on results. In recent years, the Bank has made important contributions across many
areas to support development results achieved by its partner countries.



 For more information, visit www.worldbank.org/results.




1 	 Afghanistan: Since 2008, more than          7 	 Chile: First-year student retention
      150,000 teachers—of whom 35                   in tertiary education institutions
      percent were women—were trained               increased from 68.4 percent in 201  1
      as part of efforts to increase equitable      to 73.8 percent in 2016, resulting
      access to quality basic education,            in larger numbers of professionals
      especially for girls.                         joining the work force and raising their
                                                    standard of living.
2 	 Albania: Energy sector distribution
      losses decreased from 49 percent           8 	 China: Nearly 5 million people and 78
      in 2013 to 31 percent in 2015. Over           towns and villages in Jiangsu Province
      the same period, the energy sector’s          directly benefited from improved
      billing collection rate increased from        water supply and wastewater services,
      78 percent to 98 percent.                     as well as improved water quality
                                                    standards, between 2009 and 2015.
3 	 Bangladesh: Between 2011 and
      2016, more than 22,000 additional          9 	 Croatia: Between 2009 and 2015,
      classrooms were constructed in                more than 230,000 people in 23
      remote and underprivileged areas to           municipalities benefited from more
      reduce overcrowding in schools.               efficient and sustainable water
                                                    services.
4 	 Brazil: Between 2010 and 2017,
      average total annual sales for small-      10 	 Djibouti: Since 2008, more than
      farmer organizations in Santa Catarina        37,000 people in one of the poorest
      increased by 64 percent, and 64.5             neighborhoods in Djibouti City
      percent of beneficiaries saw an               directly benefited from access to basic
      increase in household income.                 services, urban mobility, and flood
                                                    management.
5 	 Burkina Faso: Between 2009 and
      2016, about 610,000 people gained          11 	 Dominican Republic: From 2008 to
      access to piped water, 440,000 people         2016, following two tropical storms
      gained access to improved sanitation,         in 2007, 24 irrigation schemes were
      and 120,000 students benefited from           rehabilitated, benefiting nearly 19,000
      improved school sanitation.                   farmers, and Aguacate power plant’s
                                                    generation capacity was restored or
6 	 Cambodia: Since 2008, around 470
                                                    expanded, benefiting nearly 600,000
      kilometers of Cambodia’s national
                                                    inhabitants.
      and provincial road network were
      rehabilitated, resulting in a reduction         Arab Republic of Egypt: From 2012
                                                 12 	 
      in travel time from 2 hours to 1.6            to 2017, more than 120,000 short-
      hours per 100 kilometers.                     term jobs were created, of which 35
                                                    percent benefited women and 70
                                                    percent benefited youth, as part of an
                                                    emergency employment program.




90	      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Countries with active
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD or IDA operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No active IBRD or IDA project,
                                                                                                                                                                           Russian Federation                                                                                                                      ineligible, or no data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Note: Data represents the IBRD/IDA active portfolio as of June 30, 2018.
                                                                                                                  Russian Fed.
                                                                                                                         Poland Belarus
                                                                                                                                      Ukraine     23           Kazakhstan                               Mongolia
                                                                                                                                        Moldova
                                                                                                                                      Romania
                                                                                                                                               Georgia      Uzbekistan Kyrgyz Rep.
                                                                                                                                     Bulgaria
                                                                                                                                            Armenia    Azerbaijan
                                                                                                                                        Turkey                         Tajikistan
                                                                                                                                                 29                                                                                China
                                                                                                                  Tunisia                                           Afghanistan
                                                                                                                                    Lebanon
                                                                                            Morocco                         21                      Iraq              1                            Bhutan                           8
                                                                                                                                                Jordan                    Pakistan
                                                                                                                                       Arab                                                Nepal
                                                                                                                                      Rep. of           20                 25
             17                                                                                                                       Egypt      12                                       18     Bangladesh
 Mexico                       Haiti                                                                                                                                                                    Myanmar
                       Jamaica                                                Cabo                                                                                                       India                                       Lao
                    Belize                                                    Verde    Mauritania
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P .D.R.
                     Honduras                                          15                             Mali   Niger                                        Rep. of                                   3
     Guatemala
                                                                                    Senegal                                                                                                                                        Thailand Vietnam
13                                                                      The Gambia                                Chad                                    Yemen                                                                                                                                       Marshall Islands
      El Salvador     Nicaragua                                                                  Burkina                                                                                                                                Cambodia   30                          Federated States
                                                                      Guinea-Bissau               Faso                                                  Djibouti                                                                                        Philippines
 24                                                                                    Guinea            Nigeria                      14                                                                                                                                        of Micronesia
         Costa Rica                                                                           Côte                  Central South                                                                Sri
                                                   Guyana                   Sierra Leone                                             Ethiopia       10                                                                              6
                Panama                                                                       d’Ivoire               African Sudan                                                                Lanka
                                                                                     Liberia              Cameroon Rep.                                                                                                                                                  Palau
                              Colombia                                                         Ghana                                                                                     Maldives
                                                                                        5        Togo 16                       Uganda         27     28                                                                                                                                                          Kiribati
                    Ecuador                                                                     Benin      Gabon                    Kenya                                                                                                                                                         Nauru
                                                                                                            Rep. of     Rwanda
                                                                                     Equatorial Guinea              Dem.  Rep.              Seychelles                                                                                             19                               26
                                                                                São Tomé and Príncipe        Congo              Burundi                                                                                                                                            Papua          Solomon                                  Kiribati
                                                                                                                     of Congo                                                                                                                           Indonesia
                                                                                                                                 Tanzania Comoros                                                                                                                                   New            Islands
                              Peru                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Guinea                    Tuvalu
                                                       Brazil                                                                                                                                                                                                    Timor-Leste
                                                                                                                       Angola
                                                                                                                                    Zambia Malawi                                                                                                                                                                       Samoa
                                                             4                                                                                               22
                                         Bolivia                                                                                                      Madagascar                                                                                                                            Vanuatu              Fiji
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tonga
                                                                                                                             Botswana      Mozambique
                                               Paraguay
                                                                        Dominican                                                               Eswatini                                    Poland
                                                                        Republic




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bulgaria Romania Ukraine
                                                                                                        Antigua                  South        Lesotho
                                                                                                        and                      Africa
                                                            Uruguay      11                             Barbuda
                                      Chile                                             St. Kitts
                                                                                       and Nevis                                                                                     9
                                         7    Argentina
                                                                                             Dominica
                                                                                                                                                                                  Croatia
                                                                                            St. Lucia                                                                        Bosnia and Serbia
                                                                                                                                                                            Herzegovina
                                                                                 St. Vincent and
                                                                                 the Grenadines                                                                                         Kosovo
                                                                                                        Grenada                                                              Montenegro
                                                                                                                                                                                   Albania
                                                                                                                                                                              2            FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                      Macedonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 43838 | AUGUST 2018


     13 El Salvador: From 2010 to 2016, more                                              more than 50,000 new land titles were                                                                22 Madagascar: Since 2015, over 113,000                                                            26 Papua New Guinea: Since 2010,
          than 40,000 beneficiaries—of whom 70                                            awarded, improving land tenure security.                                                                  children in about 600 schools in the                                                               around 17,500 young Papua New
          percent were women and 30 percent                                                                                                                                                         south have received meals at school,                                                               Guineans have completed life skills
                                                                                      18 India: Since 1993, more than 260,000
          were youth—in poor urban areas received                                                                                                                                                   helping them to stay in school in spite                                                            training and un-dertaken more than
                                                                                          hectares of unproductive lands in Uttar
          income support.                                                                                                                                                                           of drought conditions in the area.                                                                 760,000 labor days.
                                                                                          Pradesh were cultivated, and over 425,000
     14 Ethiopia: Between 2006 and 2016, the                                              poor families have benefited from a three-                                                           23 Moldova: Between 2003 and 2013, over                                                            27 Rwanda: National access to the
          primary net enrollment rate increased                                           to six-fold increase in crop yields.                                                                      1,000 business start-ups were launched                                                             electricity grid increased from about
          from just over 79 percent to more than                                                                                                                                                    and $30 million was disbursed to rural                                                             6 percent in 2009 to more than 24
                                                                                      19 Indonesia: From 2007 to 2015, nearly
          99 per cent, while the ratio of girls to boys                                                                                                                                             entrepreneurs and start-ups, helping                                                               percent by December 2016.
                                                                                          1 million children received immunizations,
          in grades 1–8 increased from 0.84 to 0.92.                                                                                                                                                create over 5,600 new jobs.
                                                                                          2.3 million pregnant women received                                                                                                                                                                     28 Tanzania: Between 2007 and 2015,
     15 The Gambia: Between 2010 and 2015, the                                            iron supplements, and over 218,000                                                                   24 Nicaragua: Between 2012 and 2017,                                                                    more than 5 million people gained
          days required to receive a business license                                     community health volunteers were trained.                                                                 nearly 18,000 families benefited from                                                              access to improved sanitation.
          was reduced from 27 to 3, paving the                                                                                                                                                      a social protection project in 26
                                                                                      20 Jordan: Since 2013, an ongoing project to                                                                                                                                                                29 Turkey: Between 2003 and 2011,
          way for more than 10,000 new enterprise                                                                                                                                                   municipalities, and public primary
                                                                                          address increased service demands due to                                                                                                                                                                     health insurance coverage for the
          registrations.                                                                                                                                                                            school retention rates increased from
                                                                                          refugee inflows has benefited more than                                                                                                                                                                      poorest decile increased from 24
                                                                                                                                                                                                    85 percent to 90 percent.
     16 Ghana: Since 2010, more than 1 million                                            2 million Jordanians and close to 250,000                                                                                                                                                                    percent to 85 percent.
          beneficiaries—of whom 55 percent were                                           Syrian refugees.                                                                                     25 Pakistan: Between 2017 and 2018,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30 Vietnam: Between 2006 and 2014,
          women—benefited from short-term                                                                                                                                                           school enrollment in Punjab increased
                                                                                      21 Lebanon: The World Bank has worked                                                                                                                                                                            800,000 people benefited from better
          employment opportunities, cash transfer                                                                                                                                                   from 11.3 million to 12.3 million
                                                                                          with Lebanon since 2003 to regenerate                                                                                                                                                                        access to improved sanitation.
          grants, and strengthened safety net                                                                                                                                                       students, and roughly 100,000 teachers
                                                                                          historic cities such as Byblos, where every
          systems.                                                                                                                                                                                  were hired through a competitive,
                                                                                          $1 invested through a Bank-supported
                                                                                                                                                                                                    meritocratic hiring system.
     17 Honduras: Between 2011 and 2017, about                                            project has secured $7 of private invest-
          90,000 urban and rural households were                                          ment, all in locally owned small and
          registered in a parcel-based system, and                                        medium enterprises.
World Bank Annual Report 2018

Financial Statements incorporated by reference. The Management’s Discussion and
Analysis and Audited Financial Statements of IBRD and IDA (“Financial Statements”)
shall be deemed to be incorporated in and to form part of this Annual Report. The
Financial Statements may be access at http://www.worldbank.org/financialresults.


Additional IBRD and IDA financial, lending, and organizational information is avail-
able on the World Bank Annual Report 2018 website: http://www.worldbank
.org/annualreport.
For more information on the World Bank or its publicly-available data and
knowledge resources, visit online:
•   Finances One: https://financesapp.worldbank.org/
•   Corporate Scorecard: http://scorecard.worldbank.org
•   World Bank Open Data: http://data.worldbank.org
•   Open Knowledge Repository: http://openknowledge.worldbank.org
•   World Bank Corporate Responsibility: http://www.worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility
•   World Bank Access to Information: http://www.worldbank.org/en/access-to-information


Production credits. The World Bank Annual Report 2018 was produced by the World Bank Group’s External
and Corporate Relations unit, under the direction of Jeremy Hillman in the Corporate Communications
department, with editorial coordination by Daniel Nikolits and Leslie Yun. Design by Naylor Design, Inc.
Typesetting by BMWW. Translation by the World Bank’s Translation and Interpretation Services. Printing by
Professional Graphics Printing Co. (Laurel, MD, USA) and PT Paragonatama Jaya (Jakarta, Indonesia).
Photography credits. Cover (clockwise from top-left): Pavel Kondrashin/World Bank; Dana Smillie/World Bank;
Farhana Asnap/World Bank; Curt Carnemark/World Bank; Maria Fleischmann/World Bank; Trevor Samson/
World Bank; Page 3: Marcia Juzga/World Bank; Page 10: Grant Ellis/World Bank; Page 13: Boris Balabanov/
World Bank; Page 17: Dominic Chavez/World Bank; Page 19: Abbas Farzami/Rumi Consultancy/World
Bank; Page 20: Hendri Lombard/World Bank; Page 23: Sarah Farhat/World Bank; Page 26: Ishaq Anis/Rumi
Consultancy/World Bank; Page 29: A’Melody Lee/World Bank; Page 31: Tanvir Murad Topu/World Bank; Page
32: Dominic Chavez/World Bank; Page 42: Grant Ellis/World Bank; Page 48: Eric Wamanji/Rococo PR & Media/
World Bank; Page 52: NTPC/World Bank; Page 56: Mirzo Ibragimov/World Bank; Page 60: Jessica Castillo
Belmont/World Bank; Page 64: Ebset

This publication follows recommended standards for paper use set by the Green Press Initiative. The paper
contains postconsumer fiber, is certified FSC® and EcoLogo, and is manufactured using renewable biogas
energy and elemental chlorine-free processing.

© 2018 International Bank for Reconstruction            Attribution—Please cite the work as follows: World
and Development / The World Bank                        Bank. 2018. World Bank Annual Report 2018.
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433                  Washington, DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/978-
Telephone: 202-473-1000                                 1-4648-1296-5. License: Creative Commons
Internet: www.worldbank.org                             Attribution–NonCommercial–NoDerivatives 3.0
                                                        IGO (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO).
Some rights reserved                                    Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
1 2 3 4 21 20 19 18                                     commercial purposes.
                                                        No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform,
This work is a product of the staff of The World
                                                        or build upon this work.
Bank. The boundaries, colors, denominations, and
other information shown on any map in this work do      Third-party content—The World Bank does not
not imply any judgment on the part of The World         necessarily own each component of the content
Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or    contained within the work. The World Bank therefore
the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.       does not warrant that the use of any third-party-
   Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered     owned individual component or part contained
to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges     in the work will not infringe on the rights of those
and immunities of The World Bank, all of which are      third parties. The risk of claims resulting from such
specifically reserved.                                  infringement rests solely with you. If you wish to re-
                                                        use a component of the work, it is your responsibility
Rights and Permissions                                  to determine whether permission is needed for that
                 This work is available under the       re-use and to obtain permission from the copyright
                 Creative Commons Attribution–          owner. Examples of components can include, but are
                 NonCommercial–NoDerivatives            not limited to, tables, figures, or images.
3.0 IGO license (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO) http://               All queries on rights and licenses should be
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/igo.          addressed to World Bank Publications, The World
Under the Creative Commons–NonCommercial–               Bank Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
NoDerivatives license, you are free to copy,            20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@
distribute, and transmit this work, for noncommercial   worldbank.org.
purposes only, under the following conditions:
                                                        ISBN: 978-1-4648-1296-5
                                                        eISBN: 978-1-4648-1297-2
                                                        doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-1296-5
The World Bank comprises the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Associ-
ation (IDA). The organization’s mission is to end extreme poverty and
boost shared prosperity in a sustainable way.


In recent years, the World Bank has supported
clients in reaching the following results:


             3.5 million hectares
        of land provided with irrigation services



                        76,120 kilometers
                        roads constructed or rehabilitated



                273 million people
                 provided with essential health,
              nutrition, and population services



                       1.8 million people
                       and micro, small, and medium
                       enterprises reached with financial services



                11 million teachers
                            recruited or trained



                       47 million people
                       provided with access to an improved
                       water source



         44 million beneficiaries
          covered by social safety net programs



         The selected global results represented above were
         reported by World Bank clients with the support of
         Bank-financed operations between 2015 and 2017.

             www.worldbank.org/annualreport




                                                                     SKU: 211296
