Annual Report 2015
Contents
  2 World Bank Group 2015 Summary Results
  2 Message from the President of the World Bank Group and
    Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors
  8 Message from the Board of Executive Directors
 11 Working to End Extreme Poverty and Promote Shared Prosperity
 12 Managing Operations, Risks, and Resources to Meet the Goals
 15 Addressing the Toughest Development Challenges
 16 Promoting Growth, Jobs, and the Private Sector
 18 Investing in Critical Infrastructure
20 Confronting Climate Change and Sustaining Natural Resources
22 Advancing Inclusive Development and Opportunities for All
24 Building Resilience and Managing Risks
29 The Regions
54 The Roles and Resources of IBRD and IDA
60 Committed to Results

KEY BOXES
 10 IBRD and IDA: Our People
26 The Diversity of Development: World Bank Global Engagement
27 Conducting Business in a Sustainable Manner
28 Ensuring Accountability and Improving Operations at the World Bank

KEY TABLES
57 IBRD and IDA: Fiscal 2015 Facts and Figures
58 Operational Summary: Fiscal 2011–15
59 World Bank Lending by Theme and Sector: Fiscal 2011–15


This Annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2014, to June 30, 2015, has
been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—
collectively known as the World Bank—in accordance with the respective bylaws of
the two institutions. Dr. Jim Yong Kim, President of the World Bank Group and Chairman
of the Board of Executive Directors, has submitted this report, together with the
accompanying administrative budgets and audited financial statements, to the Board
of Governors.

Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.

All dollar amounts used in this Annual Report are current U.S. dollars unless other-
wise specified. As a result of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to totals and
percentages in figures may not add to 100.

The terminology used in this report is very precise. The term World Bank and the
abbreviated Bank refer only to IBRD and IDA. The term World Bank Group and the
abbreviated Bank Group refer to the collective work of IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA.
                               $135 billion
                                                                                                                  $400 billion
                                Global development
                                community provides                                                                Remittances
                                each year                                                                         2013
                OFFI
            An im



                                              Official development
                                                                                                                                                                      $778 billion
              por ta
                 CIAL D

                                              assistance must catalyze
                                              and leverage new
                                                                                                                                                                      Foreign direct
                                              development resources.
                    nt




                                                                                                                                                                      investment 2013
                                                                                                                   C   E
                 s




                                                                                                                 N         ding
                       ource o




                                                                                                               A         un
                        E V E L O ding for th




                                                                                                             I N ce of f
                                                                                                            F our
                                                                                                                s




                                                                                                        R
                               f fun




                                                                                       I VAT E S E C TO

                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                     tia
                                   PME




                                                                                                   en
                                                                                                                           To unlock these resources,




                                                                                          largest pot
                                                                                                                           countries must improve the
                                       N T poor




                                                                                                                           business climate, develop
                                                                                                                           local capital markets, and
                                            A S es t




                                                                                                                           mitigate investment risk.
                                             e




                                                                                                    The
                                               S I co




                                                                                     R
                                                  ST




                                                                                   P


                                                       N
                                                     A




                                           un               CE
                                                t ri
                                                       es
DOM
        ES  TIC
T he l
      arge        RES
          st av          OUR
               ailab
                    l e so      CES
                          urce
                               of f
                                    und
                                        in                       g fo
                                                                        r co
                                                                            unt
                                                                                  ries                                       FIN
                                                                                       'd    eve
                                                                                                      lop
                                                                                                                                   AN
                                                                                                         me                             CI
         To unlock these resources,                                                                         nt
                                                                                                               pla                           NG
                                                                                                                  ns
         countries must build effective
                                                                                                                                                   FO
         tax regimes and government
                                                                                                                                                        R
         institutions, and improve public
         spending.
                                                                                                                                                            DE
                                                                                                                                                                 VE
                                                                                                                                                                      LO
                                                                                                                                                                           PM
                                                                                                                                                                                EN
                                                                                                                                                                                     T
Financing the Post-2015
Sustainable Development Agenda



O
             verall, 2015 is set to be a pivotal year in global development aspirations.
             With the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) expiring at year’s end, a
             new post-2015 development agenda is being designed: the Sustainable
             Development Goals (SDGs) encourage every country to end poverty and
enhance social and economic development in a sustainable manner. The SDGs will
spur new strategies and provide greater incentives for better governance—all
designed to give the poor more opportunities to succeed. Yet channeling the financ-
ing needed to achieve them will not be accomplished with a business-as-usual
approach.
    Official development assistance (ODA) will remain an important source of external
public financing for the poorest countries. Yet going forward, the current billions of
dollars of ODA must be used more strategically to leverage and catalyze trillions of
dollars in investment of all kinds: public and private, domestic and global, in capital
and capacity. To reach the needed trillions in investments, additional flows must
come from mobilizing public domestic resources—the source of the most substantial
development spending—and from private sector finance and investment—the larg-
est potential source of additional funding.
    Through their unique business models, the World Bank Group and other multilat-
eral development banks marshal financing along with policy advice and knowledge,
and work with governments for sustainable development. Together they partner to
improve the climate for development within countries in diverse and wide-ranging
ways: by providing policy advice and assistance to improve public institutions and
increase domestic resource mobilization; by leveraging resources from shareholder
contributions and from financial markets; and by promoting investment and attract-
ing private capital to developing economies.
    Even more than obtaining financing, achieving the SDGs will require a global
change in mind sets, approaches, and accountabilities to reflect and transform the
reality of complex and varied development challenges. The next 15 years will demand
nothing less than all of our best efforts.


The World Bank Annual Report 2015
This Annual Report focuses on how two of the World Bank Group’s institutions—the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International
Development Association (IDA)—are partnering with countries to end extreme pov-
erty by 2030, promote shared prosperity, and support the global sustainable devel-
opment agenda.
    The following websites and additional links throughout the report are provided for
further information.

   Annual Report 2015: worldbank.org/annualreport
   Corporate Scorecard: worldbank.org/corporatescorecard
   World Bank Results: worldbank.org/results
   World Bank Open Data: data.worldbank.org
   Corporate Responsibility: worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility




                                                                       INTRODUCTION 	      1
      WORLD BANK GROUP 2015 SUMMARY RESULTS
       Message from the President of the World Bank Group and
       Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors




This has been a pivotal year for global
development. The international community’s
decisions in 2015 will have long-term impacts
on the world’s ability to reach our goal of
ending extreme poverty by 2030.

      Today, nearly 1 billion people still live on less than $1.25 a day. This is a stagger-
      ing number, but it is important to remember that over the past 25 years, the
      world has reduced the rate of extreme poverty by two-thirds. Over that time,
      many countries have succeeded in making the seemingly impossible possible.
         Ending extreme poverty by 2030 will be difficult but entirely possible. For
      decades, the World Bank Group’s principal institutions—the International Bank
      for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development
      Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multi­
      lateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)—have distilled and analyzed our
      global experience in fighting poverty. We have learned from our experience
      what has worked for development and what has not in specific contexts, and
      some clear patterns have emerged.
         Evidence shows that great gains can be made through the strategy of
      “grow, invest, and insure.” We must promote strong, sustainable, and inclusive
      economic growth; we must invest in people—especially in health and educa-
      tion; and we must build social safety nets and protections against natural
      disasters and pandemics to prevent people from plunging into extreme poverty.
         We also know that as an institution, the World Bank Group needs to better
      meet the evolving needs of low- and middle-income countries. In a world where
      capital is more easily available, we must emphasize our greatest strengths—the
      marriage of our vast knowledge with innovative financing to deliver programs
      that have the greatest impact on the poorest. Our aim is to help countries
      translate global experience into practical know-how to solve their most difficult
      ­
      problems.
         This year, the World Bank Group committed nearly $60 billion in loans,
      grants, equity investments, and guarantees to its members and private busi-
      nesses. IBRD delivered record amounts of financing for any year except at the
      height of the global financial crisis, with commitments totaling $23.5 billion.
      And IDA, the World Bank’s fund for the poorest, has just had the strongest first
      year of a replenishment cycle ever, committing $19.0 billion. Thanks to our
      determined and dedicated staff, we have been able to strengthen our perfor-
      mance and ensure that the development knowledge and expertise within our
      institution moves more easily around the globe.
   As the world seeks to go from billions to trillions of dollars in development
finance—with sources of financing from high-, middle-, and low-income
countries—the work of our entire World Bank Group will be critical to driving
private sector investment to emerging markets and fragile countries. IFC and
MIGA, two of our institutions focused on private sector development, are
strengthening their efforts in this regard. This year, IFC provided about
$17.7 billion in financing for private sector development, about $7.1 billion of
which was mobilized from investment partners. MIGA issued $2.8 billion
in political risk and credit enhancement guarantees underpinning various
investments, including in much-needed infrastructure projects.
   Nearly 1 billion people living in extreme poverty want an equal opportunity
for a better life. They are counting on policies and programs that give them a
chance. Governments must seize this moment. Our private sector partners must
explore new investments. The World Bank Group, our multilateral development
bank partners, and our new partners on the horizon must all work together to
not let this opportunity slip away and collaborate with real conviction. Working
together, we can promote inclusive and sustainable growth, as well as opportu-
nity for the poor and the vulnerable. We can be the generation that ended
extreme poverty.




DR. JIM YONG KIM
President of the World Bank Group
and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors




        “Working together, we
         can promote inclusive
     and sustainable growth,
        as well as opportunity
            for the poor and the
  vulnerable. We can be the
        generation that ended
                extreme poverty.”




                                        	                    2015 SUMMARY RESULTS 	   3
Global Commitments
The World Bank Group maintained strong support for developing countries over the past
year as the organization focused on delivering results more quickly, increasing its relevance
for clients and partners, and bringing global solutions to local challenges.




                                                 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN



                                                           $10
                                                          BILLION




$60
BILLION
in loans, grants, equity investments,
and guarantees to partner countries
and private businesses.

Total includes multiregional and global
projects. Regional breakdowns reflect
World Bank country classifications.
               EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA



                      $10
                     BILLION                           EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC



                                                             $9
                                                         BILLION




                      $5
                     BILLION              $11
           MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
                                          BILLION
                                          SOUTH ASIA



   $15
  BILLION
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA




                      	                   2015 SUMMARY RESULTS 	               5
Our Impact
The World Bank Group leveraged its strengths, expertise, and resources to help countries and
other partners make a real impact on development—by driving economic growth, promoting
inclusiveness, and ensuring sustainability.




DRIVING ECONOMIC GROWTH
IBRD/IDA                                       IFC                          MIGA

27,700 kilometers                              2.5 million                  100,325
of roads constructed or rehabilitated          jobs provided                jobs provided

49 million                                     237 million                  $14.7 billion
people and micro, small, and medium            customers supplied with      in new loans issued by
enterprises reached with financial             phone connections            MIGA clients
services




PROMOTING INCLUSIVENESS
IBRD/IDA                                      IFC                           MIGA

123 million                                   3.4 million                   21.8 million
people received health, nutrition,            farmers assisted              people provided
and population services                                                     access to power

14.5 million                                  3.5 million                   142 million
beneficiaries covered by social               students received             people provided
safety net programs                           educational benefits          access to transport




ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY
IBRD/IDA                                      IFC                           MIGA

41 million                                    9.7 million                   4 million
tons of CO2 equivalent emissions              metric tons of                people provided
expected to be reduced with support           greenhouse emissions          access to clean water
of special climate instruments                expected to be reduced as
                                              a result of IFC investments
                                              in fiscal 2015

34                                            $19.5 billion                 $3.0 billion
countries with strengthened public            in government revenues        in government revenues
financial management systems                  generated by IFC clients      generated by MIGA
                                                                            clients
The Institutions of the World Bank Group
The World Bank Group is one of the world’s largest sources of funding and knowledge for
developing countries, consisting of five institutions with a common commitment to reducing
poverty, increasing shared prosperity, and promoting sustainable development.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Lends to governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries
International Development Association (IDA)
Provides interest-free loans, or credits, and grants to governments of the poorest countries
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
Provides loans, equity, and advisory services to stimulate private sector investment in developing
countries
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
Provides political risk insurance and credit enhancement to investors and lenders to facilitate
foreign direct investment in emerging economies
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
Provides international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes



WORLD BANK GROUP FINANCING FOR PARTNER COUNTRIES
BY FISCAL YEAR, MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
	                2011	2012	2013	2014	2015
WORLD BANK GROUP					
Commitmentsa	                           56,424	 51,221	50,232	 58,190	 59,776
Disbursements 	    b
                                        42,028	42,390	40,570	44,398	44,582

IBRD					
Commitments	                            26,737	20,582	15,249	18,604	23,528
Disbursements	                          21,879	19,777	16,030	 18,761	 19,012

IDA					
Commitments	                            16,269	 14,753	16,298	22,239	18,966
Disbursements	                          10,282	 11,061	11,228	13,432	12,905

IFC					
Commitmentsc	                             7,491	 9,241	11,008	 9,967	10,539
Disbursements	                            6,715	 7,981	 9,971	8,904	9,264

MIGA					
Gross issuance	                           2,099	         2,657	          2,781	         3,155	         2,828

Recipient-Executed Trust Funds					
Commitments	                              3,828	3,988	4,897	4,225	 3,914
Disbursements	                            3,152	3,571	3,341	3,301	3,401
a. Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross issuance.
    RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants, and therefore total WBG commitments differ from the
    amounts reported in the WBG Corporate Scorecard, which includes only a subset of trust-funded activities.
b.  Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
c. Long-term commitments for IFC’s own account. Does not include short-term finance or funds mobilized from
    other investors.




                                            	                              2015 SUMMARY RESULTS 	                 7
     Message from the
     Board of Executive Directors


        T
                  he 25 resident Executive Directors, representing the World Bank’s 188 mem-
                  ber countries, are responsible for the conduct of the general operations
                  of the World Bank under delegated powers from the Board of Governors.
                  The World Bank comprises both the International Bank for Reconstruction
        and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA). The
        Executive Directors select a President, who serves as Chair of the Board. The current
        Board term is from November 2014 to October 2016.
            Executive Directors fulfill an important role in guiding the general operations and
        strategic direction of the entire World Bank Group, and they represent member
        countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They consider and decide on proposals
        made by the President for IBRD and IDA loans, credits, grants, and guarantees; new
        policies; the administrative budget; and other operational and financial matters.
        They also discuss Country Partnership Frameworks—the central tool by which man-
        agement and the Board review and guide the Bank Group’s engagement with client
        countries and support for development programs. Moreover, Executive Directors are
        responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors an audit of accounts, an
        administrative budget, and the World Bank’s Annual Report on fiscal year results.
            Executive Directors serve on one or more standing committees: the Audit Com-
        mittee, the Budget Committee, the Committee on Development Effectiveness, the
        Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters, and the Human Resources
        Committee. These committees help the Board to discharge its oversight responsibil-
        ities through in-depth examinations of policies and practices. The Executive Direc-
        tors’ Steering Committee meets to discuss the Board’s strategic work program.
            Directors periodically travel to member countries to gain firsthand knowledge
        about a country’s economic and social challenges, visit project activities financed by
        IBRD and IDA, and discuss with government officials their assessment of the collab-
        oration with the Bank Group. In 2015, Directors visited Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
        Malawi, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.
            The Board, through its committees, regularly engages on the effectiveness of the
        activities of IBRD and IDA with the independent Inspection Panel and the Indepen-
        dent Evaluation Group, which report directly to the Board.

        Board achievements of 2015
        Highlights of the committees’ work this year include the Audit Committee’s consul-
        tation with management on measures to improve the financial sustainability and
        lending capacity of the World Bank, and the Budget Committee’s support to
        the budget process and guidance on the expenditure review. The Committee on
        Development Effectiveness was involved in discussions on reviews of some impor­
        tant Bank instruments, such as safeguards and procurement policies, and the
        Program-for-Results lending. The Committee on Governance and Administrative


8	      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Seated (left to right): Hervé de Villeroché, France; Patrizio Pagano, Italy; Subhash Chandra Garg,
India; Merza Hasan (Dean), Kuwait; Rionald Silaban, Indonesia; Masahiro Kan, Japan; Gwen Hines,
United Kingdom; Nasir Mahmood Khosa, Pakistan.
Standing (left to right): Jose A. Rojas R., Venezuela, RB; Frank Heemskerk, Netherlands; Ursula Müller,
Germany; Jörg Frieden, Switzerland; Louis Rene Peter Larose, Seychelles; Franciscus Godts, Belgium;
Shixin Chen, China; Alister Smith, Canada; Satu Santala, Finland; Ana Dias Lourenco, Angola; Khalid
Alkhudairy, Saudi Arabia; Sung-Soo Eun, Korea, Rep.; Alex Foxley, Chile; Antonio Silveira, Brazil;
Mohamed Sikieh Kayad, Djibouti; Andrei Lushin, Russian Federation.
Not pictured: Matthew McGuire, United States.



Matters covered discussions on the 2015 Shareholding Review. The Human
Resources Committee considered various activities related to the new World Bank
Group Strategy, including talent and performance management, global mobility,
and the contract architecture of the Bank Group.
    The focus of the Board is to help the Bank achieve the objectives of reducing
poverty and boosting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner. During fiscal 2015,
it has done this by engaging management on interactions with partners, such as
those with the United Nations and Group of 20 on such issues as climate change
and the response to the Ebola epidemic, as well as on the post-2015 development
agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals, creation of the Global Infrastruc-
ture Facility, and replenishment of the Global Environment Facility.
    The Board uses several approaches to oversee and guide management on
achieving the Bank’s objectives. Following last year’s approval of the World Bank
Group Strategy, in fiscal 2015 the Board discussed the World Bank Group Corporate
Scorecard, strategic planning, the Policy and Procedure Framework, diversity and
inclusion, the budget and expenditure review, among others. It also deliberated on
important operational instruments such as the new country engagement model,
Program-for-Results, regional updates, Doing Business, South-South Knowledge
exchange, extractive industries, and the impact of the oil price fluctuations. The
Board reviewed the results and operational implications of the World Development
Report 2015 on Mind, Society, and Behavior, while deliberating the proposed con-
cept for the WDR 2016 on the Internet for Development.
    Furthermore, the Executive Directors approved several crisis or emergency
responses for a wide range of clients, including Burkina Faso, India, Liberia, Nepal,
Pakistan, the Solomon Islands, Ukraine, and West Bank and Gaza. The Board also
welcomed the Independent Evaluation Group’s review of the results and perfor-
mance of the World Bank Group, and the Inspection Panel’s reports concerning
Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Nigeria, Paraguay, and Uzbekistan.
    The Board discussed several papers that were considered by the Board of Gover-
nors during the Annual and Spring Meetings, including “From Billions to Trillions:
Transforming Development Finance—Post-2015 Financing for Development: Multi-
lateral Development Finance,” “Update on Implementation of the Gender Equality
Agenda at the World Bank Group,” “Promoting Shared Prosperity in an Unequal
World: Key Challenges and the Role of the World Bank Group,” and the “Global
Monitoring Report 2014/2015: Ending Poverty and Sharing Prosperity—Overview.”
    Overall, the Board approved approximately $42.5 billion in financial assistance in
fiscal 2015, comprising about $23.5 billion in IBRD lending and about $19.0 billion
in IDA support. The Directors also reviewed 39 Country Partnership Framework
products. The Board approved an administrative budget for the World Bank of $2.5
billion for fiscal 2016.


                                          	INTRODUCTION 	                                                 9
      IBRD and IDA: Our people
      Composed of some 1   1,933 full-time staff members (table 1) of 172 nationalities who
      work across 136 countries, the World Bank’s workforce is a global one in every sense
      of the word. The richness of the backgrounds and experience of Bank staff contin-
      ues to be a hallmark of the products and services that clients seek.
          The World Bank has a significant global footprint, with 40 percent of staff now
      working outside the United States. In terms of diversity, nationals of developing
      countries account for 61 percent of all staff and 42 percent of managers. Women
      currently account for 52 percent of all staff and 38 percent of managers, and
      Sub-Saharan African and Caribbean nationals represent 15 percent of all staff and
      12 percent of managers.
          Human Resources (HR) staff support the Bank in employing the right people in
      the right place with the right skills at the right time. The core content of the HR
      strategy is organized around the following five objectives:

          •  Building a culture of performance and accountability
          •  Driving a more effective organization
          •  Fostering a more diverse and inclusive workforce
          •  Creating career opportunities
          •  Ensuring HR excellence and business-driven delivery.

          The past year has seen significant progress in the areas of performance and tal-
      ent man­  agement, strategic staff planning, career development, the global mobility
      framework, and compensation—all of which strengthen the employment value
      proposition for Bank staff. Looking ahead, the institutional contract architecture is
      adapting to the Bank’s business needs to ensure that it has the organizational capa-
      bilities to deliver on the goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared
      prosperity.
          As the Bank continues to retool to increase its delivery and responsiveness to
      clients, HR has played a pivotal role in the transition of staff from the earlier structure
      to the new Global Practices.


      TABLE 1  WORLD BANK STAFF*
      Total full-time staff	              11,933      Country offices	                      127
       Managerial	                           503      Headquarter satellite offices	          8
       Technical	                          8,462      Staff based outside the
       Administrative	                     2,968      United States	                       40%
      Short-term consultants	                           Country Directors/Managers	        96%
        (full-time equivalent) 	           4,262
      	 * As of June 30, 2015




10	         THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
NIGERIA © Arne Hoel/World Bank




                                 Working to End Extreme Poverty
                                 and Promote Shared Prosperity



                                 A
                                             ll of the work at the World Bank Group is anchored in two
                                             goals: ending extreme poverty—reducing the share of the
                                             global population living in extreme poverty to 3 percent by
                                             the year 2030—and promoting shared prosperity—increasing
                                 the income of the bottom 40 percent of the population in each country—in
                                 a sustainable manner.
                                    These goals must be pursued in parallel if we want to see real and contin-
                                 ual progress. It is not enough to lift people just above the extreme poverty
                                 line. We need to ensure that they continue on an upward path and have the
                                 opportunities they need to move toward better lives and to escape poverty
                                 and marginalization for good.
                                    With nearly 1 billion people still living on less than $1.25 a day, some say
                                 it’s impossible to end extreme poverty—especially in just 15 years. But past
                                 success and the lessons from years of experience about what has worked in
                                 a particular context—and what has not—suggest that it is possible. The task
                                 will be challenging, and business as usual will not be enough to reach that
                                 target. It will be important to promote growth that is sustained and inclusive;
                                 to invest in more and better jobs, quality education, good health care, mod-
                                 ern infrastructure, and more-equal opportunities for all; and to develop
                                 effective social protection and labor systems to ensure that the most vulner-
                                 able can persevere in the face of economic shocks or natural disasters.
                                    The World Bank Group remains a committed partner in global efforts to
                                 bring sustainable growth, inclusive opportunity, and greater prosperity to
                                 the world’s poorest, and to realize this historic opportunity to end poverty
                                 within a generation.

                                                    	INTRODUCTION 	                                          11
      Managing Operations, Risks, and
      Resources to Meet the Goals


        R
                    eaching the ambitious goals will require the World Bank Group’s commit-
                    ment to the world’s best ideas, knowledge, and experience in develop-
                    ment. The Bank Group’s new operating model, launched on July 1, 2014,
                    stems directly from this commitment. Country-based teams remain the
        chief interface with clients in this model and are responsible for developing coun-
        try and regional strategies. They foster selectivity in country programs, ensure that
        these programs account for country context and political economy, and integrate
        public and private sector solutions. To support the country-based programs and
        marshal the best development knowledge available, the Bank Group created Global
        Practices and Cross-Cutting Solutions Areas. Global Practices provide world-class,
        integrated, evidence-based solutions to help clients address their most complex
        challenges. Cross-Cutting Solutions Areas focus the Bank Group’s resources on cor-
        porate priorities.
            These new efforts allow the Bank Group to identify and deliver solutions that are
        based on country demand and to integrate the best global technical expertise with
        country knowledge in order to develop multisectoral solutions. They help to deliver
        solutions that integrate the public and private sectors, capture and leverage knowl-
        edge, and build global leadership. Because solutions to development challenges
        rarely involve just a single issue, a hallmark of the new structure is cross-practice
        collaboration. Additionally, the fact that technical teams are truly global means that
        staff can work more easily across regions. Adjustments are under way to clarify
        accountability and simplify processes.
            In its first year of implementation, the new model facilitated important improve-
        ments in the Bank Group’s work. Of course, the ultimate measure of success is
        whether clients achieve the development results that the solutions are designed
        to deliver. To determine if this is the case, management is monitoring effec-
        tiveness through internal accountability mechanisms, real-time client feedback,
        midcourse evaluation of country programs, and the World Bank Group Corporate
        Scorecard, which tracks performance toward achieving the institution’s goals. (See
        worldbank.org/corporatescorecard.)
            Also critical to clients’ achievement of results is the Bank Group’s new approach
        to country engagement. The new model is more systematic, evidence based, selec-
        tive, and tightly focused on helping member countries to achieve the goals of end-
        ing extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner.
            Starting from countries’ own visions of their development goals—determined
        through country-led strategies and processes that include citizen engagement and
        stakeholder consultations—the Bank, IFC, and MIGA jointly develop Country Part­
        nership Frameworks. The framework lays out a program of interventions and solu-
        tions to assist a country in achieving its development goals. Underpinning and
        informing the framework is a Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD), which identifies
        areas where progress will have the greatest impact on achieving the goals. As
        of the end of the fiscal year, 37 SCDs had been planned or completed, across all
        regions. (See worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/country-strategies#3.)
            A country’s development goals, the priorities identified in the SCD, and the Bank
        Group’s comparative advantage determine the development program in each coun-




12	      THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
try. This country engagement approach is supported by Performance and Learning
Reviews, which identify lessons learned and steer midcourse corrections, and Com-
pletion and Learning Reviews, which capture end-of-cycle learning. Both reviews
contribute to the Bank Group’s knowledge base and enhance the development
effectiveness of future programs.


Pursuing the goals while managing the risks
Improved client services—that will ultimately help the World Bank Group deliver on
its goals—can only happen within a strong risk management culture and framework
that preserves the Bank Group’s reputation and financial sustainability in an increas-
ingly uncertain and challenging environment. The Bank Group’s approach involves
actively taking, while carefully managing, risks in pursuing its objectives. It seeks to
ensure that risks are adequately assessed, measured, monitored, and reported so
that corrective action, if necessary, can be taken in a timely manner and impacts
mitigated. As the environment changes and as new risks emerge, this process will
evolve.
    The Bank Group faces a variety of risks related to development impacts, environ-
mental and social safeguards, integrity, and financial management. It manages them
through a customized risk rating and regular monitoring system as well as through
engagement with clients. It manages other risks, including financial and operational
risks, using leading industry practices and standards adapted to the Bank Group’s
purposes.
    The external challenges are many. They include a low interest rate environment,
which affects income; the impact of low oil prices on some country clients; geo­
political tensions, which affect some of the Bank Group’s areas of operation; the risks
of economic slowdown, which are facing some developing countries; and policy
normalization in developed markets, which can heighten volatility in currencies and
capital flows to some emerging market economies. Finally, the Bank Group contin-
ues to face operational risks, including the growing threat of data and information
security breaches and external events that can impact business continuity and the
physical security of its staff.
    As both a development and a financial institution, the World Bank Group faces
special challenges in the current environment. Initiatives in 2015 on financing for
development, the Sustainable Development Goals, and climate change will affect
the development agenda for years to come. The emergence of new multilateral
development institutions creates both opportunities and challenges for creative
partnerships and requires fresh thinking about the financial structure of the World
Bank Group.
    These changes are occurring against a backdrop of major internal organizational
reform and an uncertain external environment. Internal reform is being stabilized,
although the impact on staff and program delivery still needs to be carefully man-
aged. Budgeting effectively and securing resources for financial sustainability will
also be key components of building stability.


Budgeting effectively across the World Bank Group
During the fiscal 2016–18 planning period, the World Bank Group will grow and
improve client services based on the business models and drivers of financial sus-
tainability for each of its institutions and the needs of their different client bases.
Selectivity in operations and efficiency through enhanced service coordination will
guide this growth. And growth will continue to be affected by a global context that
is challenging but still presents opportunities, and by a Bank Group financial situa-
tion that is improving but remains constrained. In addition, a strong business model,
partnerships, and management of resources will be key for the Bank Group’s finan-
cial sustainability.




                                    	                                 2015 OVERVIEW 	      13
                The World Bank Group aligns its resources using a streamlined “W” process for
            strategic planning, budgeting, and performance review. The five points of the “W”
            represent specific decision points in the process.
            W1:	Senior management sets strategic planning priorities for the World Bank
                 Group.
            W2:	Management at the vice presidential unit (VPU) level reviews and responds to
                 corporate priorities.
            W3:	Senior management refines the guidance on priorities and determines the
                 programs and three-year, unit-level budget envelopes for each institution
                 within the World Bank Group.
            W4:	VPU-level management develops work programs and staffing plans in
                 response to determined priorities and budget envelopes.
            W5:	Final funding decisions conclude the planning for the subsequent three fiscal
                 years. The Board confirms and formally approves the VPU budget envelopes
                 and work programs.


            Increasing resources by identifying potential savings
            This fiscal year the World Bank Group concluded an expenditure review, which was
            intended to strengthen its financial base, create space to grow, and fulfill the com-
            mitment to shareholders to ensure the institution’s financial sustainability. The
            review identified savings of $404 million over three years—8 percent of the World
            Bank Group’s total expenditures (table 2). Because almost three-quarters of the sav-
            ings comes from reductions in general service and administrative costs—including
            increasing the efficiency of real estate, country management units, front offices,
            and management and administrative support—the impact on client services will
            be minimal.



TABLE 2  RESULTS OF THE WORLD BANK GROUP EXPENDITURE REVIEW
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
	              DATE	                           MEASURE                          ESTIMATED SAVINGS 
	     January 2014	Immediate (including travel, compensation, and benefits)	           $110
	        May 2014	Bank Group–wide (including corporate procurement,
                   short-term consultant rates, and renegotiation of IT
                   contracts)	$54
	 September 2014	Finance, technology, and corporate (including upgrading
                  IT services and other savings in institutional, governance,
                  and administrative units)	                                             $84
	     October 2014	Board-managed budgets (including Independent
                    Evaluation Group)	                                                    $8
	     January 2015	Operations (including consolidation of country management
                    units, real estate savings, and efficiencies in analytical and
                    advisory services)	                                                 $100
	     January 2015	Additional Group–wide (including global airline contracts and
                    sales tax exemptions)	                                               $48
TOTAL ESTIMATED SAVINGS	$404
Note: IT = information technology.




14	         THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
BANGLADESH © Ismail Ferdous/World Bank




                                         BANGLADESH © Ismail Ferdous/World Bank




                                                                                  Addressing the Toughest
                                                                                  Development Challenges



                                                                                  T
                                                                                              here is no single blueprint for countries in their efforts to end
                                                                                              extreme poverty and to promote shared prosperity in a sus-
                                                                                              tainable manner. Strategies to reach the least well-off must be
                                                                                              tailored to each country’s context, based on solid evidence pro-
                                                                                  vided by the latest data and analysis and on the needs of the people.
                                                                                      The World Bank Group partners with countries to take on these chal-
                                                                                  lenges in a number of ways. These include funding projects that can have
                                                                                  transformational impacts on communities, collecting and analyzing the
                                                                                  critical data and evidence needed to ensure these programs reach the
                                                                                  poorest and most vulnerable, and helping governments to create more-
                                                                                  inclusive and more-effective policies that can benefit entire populations.
                                                                                      As you will read in the pages that follow, the World Bank works across
                                                                                  intersecting and complex sectors. Examples include increasing agricultural
                                                                                  productivity and building infrastructure that provides access to energy,
                                                                                  irrigation, and markets; promoting freer trade that provides greater access
                                                                                  to markets for the poor and enabling entrepreneurs in low- and middle-
                                                                                  income countries to grow their businesses and create new jobs; investing
                                                                                  in both health care and education, especially for women and children; and
                                                                                  implementing social safety nets and providing social insurance, includ-
                                                                                  ing initiatives that protect against the impacts of natural disasters and
                                                                                  pandemics.
                                                                                      In working across these diverse topics, the World Bank aims to help
                                                                                  developing countries find solutions to the toughest global and local devel-
                                                                                  opment challenges.

                                                                                  In the texts that follow, the term World Bank and the abbreviated Bank refer only to
                                                                                  IBRD and IDA. The term World Bank Group and the abbreviated Bank Group refer
                                                                                  to the collective work of IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA.
                                                                                                          	INTRODUCTION 	                                           15
Promoting Growth, Jobs, and the
Private Sector


      G
                   overnments and the private sector around the world are seeking more
                   effective ways of enhancing the investment climate, improving competi-
                   tiveness, boosting the volume and value of trade, and fostering innova-
                   tion and entrepreneurship—all elements of successful growth strategies.
      The World Bank serves as a trusted partner for countries that seek to develop
      dynamic and resilient economies, expand market opportunities, and enable private
      initiative. Combined with the work of IFC and MIGA, the World Bank can offer com-
      prehensive solutions to this pursuit of sustainable growth.
          While economic growth does not automatically include comparable employment
      growth, jobs are nonetheless central to the goals of sustainably ending poverty and
      boosting shared prosperity. For the poor and the vulnerable, jobs are the main route
      out of poverty. Yet more than 1 billion people of working age are not participating
      at all in the formal labor force. Most of these are women, who even when they do
      work, are often streamed into informal, less-secure, and lower-paid sectors while also
      performing unpaid care work. Another 200 million people are unemployed, includ-
      ing 75 million youth. At least an additional 600 million jobs are needed globally by
      2030 to keep employment rates stable and to keep up with population growth.
          In fiscal 2015, the Bank began implementing a new “whole-of-government
      approach” to jobs while also working closely with the private sector. The goals are to
      help design and deliver comprehensive, integrated, and high-impact jobs strategies
      that involve all relevant sectors in client countries, and to advance global knowledge
      about the most effective policies and actions for creating good, sustainable jobs. As
      a first step, the Bank developed, and piloted in 15 countries, a multisectoral jobs
      diagnostic tool that identifies constraints and opportunities for employment.  The
      aim is to provide the knowledge that policy makers, civil society, and the private
      sector need to identify opportunities for creating more, better, and more-inclusive
      jobs. Together with other partners, the Bank also set up the Solutions for Youth
      Employment Coalition late in 2014 to help address youth unemployment.
          Governments can also reduce bureaucratic and legal constraints on inclusive
      private sector–led growth. Equipping policy makers to help establish the proper
      environment for job creation is imperative. The World Bank Group does this by col-
      laborating with donors, partners, and international organizations to invest in three
      areas: adequate and timely data collection, cross-sectoral diagnostic tools, and a
      smooth flow of practical knowledge based on country experience.
          Bank Group–supported projects to strengthen the business environment in client
      countries include the $9.5 million East African Community Investment ­     Climate Pro-
      gram, which facilitates regional trade and investment by improving legal and regu-
      latory frameworks for doing business and by strengthening capacity to implement
      the East African Common Market Protocol. In India, the Ease of Doing Business Pro-
      gram is a $4.3 million engagement over fiscal 2015–18, supporting the govern-
      ment’s ambitious program to reduce excessive bureaucracy and rent-seeking
      opportunities, increase the transparency and predictability of government interac-
      tions with the private sector, and strengthen regulations such as insolvency proceed-
      ings to preserve greater economic value. A World Bank guarantee is also helping the
      Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to raise from the private sector
      an initial €50 million of a €250 million funding program to support lending to small
      and medium-size exporters and foreign exchange earners facing limited financing
      options since the global financial crisis.

16	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
    The World Bank, MIGA, and IFC work hand-in-hand with governments and the
private sector to build resilient and inclusive financial systems and to develop local
capital markets. An essential step for job creation is providing access to finance for
small and medium-size enterprises, which create four out of five new jobs. The Bank
Group works with countries to find innovative ways to unlock sources of capital for
local businesses. For example, Liberia, with the help of IFC, started a collateral regis-
try in 2014 to securitize movable assets, enabling farmers and entrepreneurs to use
such assets as collateral to borrow money. In less than a year since its launch—most
of which was during the Ebola crisis—$227 million in loans was registered.
    The recent financial crisis demonstrated the need for strengthened international
standards for financial resilience. The World Bank contributes to such standards and
helps clients to comply with them. In fiscal 2015, the Bank, jointly with the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund, conducted 10 Financial Sector Assessment Program reviews
to help countries identify and correct vulnerabilities in their financial systems. Com-
bating money laundering and terrorism financing, including the recovery of stolen
assets, are also critical to the Bank’s work. In fiscal 2015, the Bank worked with more
than 20 countries to undertake national risk assessments in these areas and to design
strategies to mitigate potential vulnerabilities.
    Agriculture is a critical component of growth. Global demand for food is pro-
jected to grow over the next 15 years—including increases around 60 percent in
Sub-Saharan Africa and 30 percent in South Asia. Poor farmers need to be better
linked to markets to benefit from such growth. Increasing productivity among female
agricultural workers, for instance, will be an important focus. They account for half of
the agricultural labor force in Sub-Saharan Africa, but they farm plots that are 20–30
percent less productive as a result of less access to productive inputs. And because
most of the world’s poor still live in rural areas, boosting agriculture-based incomes
is essential and can be a main driver of poverty reduction. For example, led by agri-
cultural growth, the percentage of Ethiopians living in poverty fell by nearly one-
third, from 44 percent in 2000 to 30 percent in 201      1.
    In fiscal 2015, the World Bank’s new commitments to agriculture, including fish-
ing and forestry projects, totaled $3.0 billion. The Bank helps poor farmers to grow
more food that is safe and nutritious, to both feed themselves and sell to markets,
thus raising farmer incomes and reducing hunger. These efforts help to link farmers
to markets, create jobs through agro­   processing, and support innovation to improve
yields in the face of a changing climate.



 YEMEN © Foad Al Harazi/World Bank




                                      	INTRODUCTION 	                                       17
 Investing in Critical Infrastructure



      I
          nfrastructure development—in the energy, water, transport, and information and
          communication technology sectors—is critical to create growth oppor­           tunities
          and to reduce poverty. Providing affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy, for
          example, to the 1.1 billion people who live without it—and modern cooking
      solutions to the 2.9 billion people who use wood or other biomass as household
      fuel—is vital to ending poverty and boosting shared prosperity in a sustainable
      manner.
          Energy poverty has been stubbornly persistent, especially in the “high energy
      deficit” regions of Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, where two-thirds of the World
      ­
      Bank Group’s energy financing is targeted. The whole of Sub-Saharan Africa, with a
      population of around 1 billion, consumes only 145 terawatt hours of electricity a year,
      which is equivalent to about one incandescent light bulb per person for three hours
      a day. The Bank Group’s energy direction emphasizes expanding access to modern
      energy services, and accelerating energy efficiency gains and renewable energy
      expansion.
          Fiscal 2015 energy investments emphasized clean, renewable energy generation
      and distribution. For example, $400 million in financing for the second phase of
      Morocco’s concentrated solar power plant supports the government’s strategy to
      reduce dependence on imported fossil fuels. A $200 million IDA credit supports
      construction of a regional transmission network to enable electricity trade among
      the western African countries of The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, and Senegal.
      The network will enable these countries to connect to more-sustainable and cost-
      effective energy resources such as hydropower and natural gas. A new World Bank
      initiative to end routine gas flaring at oil production sites seeks to harness this wasted
      resource for energy while protecting the environment.
          Bank Group energy investments also work to make electricity affordable for all. In
      Kenya, an electricity modernization project will improve the financial viability of the
      national power utility and expand energy infrastructure so that 630,000 Kenyans
      obtain access to electricity and existing consumers have better-quality services.
          A rapidly growing share of disadvantaged people live in cities, and although the
      majority of the world’s poor still live in rural areas, the urban population is expected
      to increase globally by 2 billion in the next 15 years. These new urban residents will
      need access to affordable housing, transport, and sanitation in a livable, resilient
      environment protected from disasters and the impacts of climate change—with jobs
      and opportunities for all.

18	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC © Dmitry Motinov/World Bank

    A notable achievement during fiscal 2015 is the conclusion of the 10-year Viet-
nam Urban Upgrading Project, which improved the lives of 7.5 million residents,
including 2 million living in 200 low-income neighborhoods of Can Tho, Hai Phong,
Ho Chi Minh City, and Nam Dinh. The project provided better water and sewerage
connections, as well as improved roads, sewers, lakes, canals, and bridges. The
affected communities helped to design and implement their local projects.
    Today 2.4 billion people lack access to sanitation, at least 663 million people lack
access to safe drinking water, and by 2025, about 1.8 billion people will be living in
places with absolute water scarcity. In fiscal 2015, the Bank committed $3.4 billion to
increase access to improved water, sanitation, and agricultural water services and to
help manage increasingly scarce water resources. For example, in Myanmar, a $100
million project integrated across agriculture, water, transport, and disaster risk man-
agement stands to benefit millions of poor people whose lives depend on sustain-
able management of the Ayeyarwady River. Further, an increased understanding of
the multisectoral nature of water management is reflected in such initiatives
as Thirsty Energy, which helps countries to better integrate their planning for water
and energy resources.
    Like energy and water, transport and information and communication technol-
ogy (ICT) are at the center of economic and social development, connecting people
to jobs, markets, and social services. Transport and ICT are also at the core of global
discussions on road safety, climate change, Sustainable Development Goals, and
financing for development. Yet critical challenges of accessibility, affordability, and
sustainability remain. Today 1 billion people still lack access to an all-weather road,
and 3 billion, to the Internet. High costs exclude the bottom 40 percent from the full
benefits of physical and virtual connectivity. And transport accounts for 23 percent
of total greenhouse gas emissions; road crashes kill 1.3 million and injure some 50
million people every year—90 percent of whom are in low- and middle-income
countries; and urban congestion reduces global GDP by more than 8 percent.
    Transport lending accounts for 21 percent of the Bank’s total active portfolio, and
three-quarters of World Bank projects include an ICT component. Efforts to build
safer, cleaner, and more-affordable transportation include implementing suburban
rail and metro projects in Brazil; expanding bus ridership by 40 percent in Wuhan,
China; and helping to improve road safety along road networks in India. In the São
Paulo Metropolitan Region of Brazil, for example, 150,000 low-income families now
have access to an additional 2.5 million jobs thanks to projects that expanded urban
mobility.
    ICT and data management are helping to better map travel patterns and users’
needs, engaging citizens and improving the quality of transport. Expanding access
to broadband service is also essential; for example, the Bank has helped Mozambique
double the share of people with Internet coverage, from 35 percent in 201        1 to 75
percent in 2014.
    Increasingly over the past two decades, the Bank Group has provided financing
and advice to clients on public-private partnerships (PPPs) and their impact on infra-
structure and service delivery—particularly in emerging markets. As long-term con-
tractual arrangements between public and private entities for providing public assets
or services, PPPs can help to promote development by pairing the expertise and
capacity of the private sector with the public policy objectives of the government.
    The Bank Group’s support spans the PPP project cycle, but there is a special focus
on collaboration to improve global knowledge about PPPs, to support project selec-
tion and prioritization, and to convene expertise. Working jointly with other multi­
lateral development banks in fiscal 2015, the Bank Group helped to launch the PPP
Knowledge Lab, a website containing quantitative and qualitative information about
PPPs and private infrastructure. The Bank Group also launched a MOOC (massive
open online course) to introduce real-world PPP cases to a diverse audience, as well
as a webinar series on PPPs in South Asia and on transparency and accountability in
PPPs. Engagements in Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kosovo, Tanzania, Vietnam, and Zambia
have developed appropriate legal, regulatory, and institutional frameworks, as well as
a major regional power transmission line project between Central Asia and South Asia.


                                    	                                 2015 OVERVIEW 	      19
 Confronting Climate Change and
 Sustaining Natural Resources



      F
               rom forests to dry lands, coastal mangroves to the ocean depths, and aqui-
               fers to the ozone layer, the natural capital required for continued economic
               growth and improved human welfare faces unprecedented levels of threat.
               At the same time, healthy and productive ecosystems are the backbone of
      development. They support hundreds of millions of rural families; provide the air,
      water, and soil on which we all depend; generate significant tax revenue; and form
      a precious buffer against extreme events and climate change. Conversely, degraded
      areas perpetuate poverty and increase exposure to risks, while pollution from all
      sources claims an estimated 9 million lives each year.
          In all of its work, the World Bank Group tries to strengthen the management of
      natural resources, reduce the burden of pollution, ensure food security, and help
      countries to make well-informed and sustainable development choices. Yet one
      challenge—climate change—transcends all others. It is a fundamental threat to peo-
      ple and the planet, and must be addressed if the goal of ending extreme poverty is
      to be achieved. The Bank Group’s work on climate change supports clean develop-
      ment pathways and focuses on five key areas: building low-carbon, climate-resilient
      cities; promoting climate-smart agriculture and nurturing forest landscapes; acceler-
      ating energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy; supporting work to
      end fossil fuel subsidies; and developing carbon pricing to get prices right for reduc-
      ing emissions.
          The Bank Group has been a strong advocate for an ambitious agreement at the
      UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties conference
      in Paris in December 2015. Given the disproportionate impact of climate change on
      the poor and the most vulnerable, all IDA operations are now screened for short- and
      long-term climate and disaster risks.
          Recent Bank-supported projects have included the more than 1,000 micro-
      hydropower plants built in Nepal since 2007 that deliver clean, renewable power to
      communities in 52 districts across the country. A project in Rwanda has distributed
      800,000 compact fluorescent lamps, which are up to 75 percent more efficient than
      incandescent bulbs, to more than 200,000 households—representing nearly 1.5 mil-
      lion people. Lending in the amount of $400 million to China for the China Energy
      Efficiency Financing Program aims to encourage Chinese commercial banks to finance
      energy efficiency projects. Such projects are expected to reduce energy consumption
      by 2.1 million tons of coal equivalent and CO2 emissions by 5.1 million tons per year.
          The World Bank’s Treasury also engages climate issues through such initiatives as
      its green bonds program, which supports climate-related projects like increasing
      energy efficiency and developing renewable energy. From 2008 up to June 30,
      2015, IBRD—among the world’s largest issuers of green bonds—has issued more
      than $8.4 billion in bonds in 18 currencies, which support 80 projects in 26 member
      countries. In fiscal 2015, this included 36 new transactions and six increases to
      previous transactions. Among the highlights were $600 million in its largest U.S.
      dollar benchmark transaction, the longest-dated green bond in a 30-year euro-
      denominated transaction, and more than $535 million through ethical equity
      index–linked bonds for retail investors in Asia, Europe, and the United States.
          Climate change is projected to reduce crop yields by 15–20 percent in the poor-
      est regions if temperatures rise above 2 degrees Celsius. These are also the areas
      where food demand is expected to increase the most. More climate-smart agricul-

20	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
                                          ture is needed to ensure higher productivity, greater climate resilience, and reduced
                                          carbon emissions. In Mali, a project is helping 175,000 farmers to revitalize produc-
                                          tivity by adopting new technologies, livestock feeding practices, and crop varieties.
                                          In India’s Karnataka state, new technologies and approaches to managing scarce
                                          water resources and making better planting decisions are benefiting 167,000 farm
                                          households, including 80,000 women.
                                              In Côte d’Ivoire, a Bank project is financing equipment, research centers, and
                                          training to boost rice production. More than 50,000 rice farmers—25 percent of
                                          whom are women—have benefited from larger harvests. Seed productivity has
                                          improved in 36 percent of irrigated rice areas and is expected to yield 219,000 tons
                                          of rice. World Bank support also comes in the form of global knowledge applied to
                                          individual country challenges. Technical assistance has helped Tanzania, for exam-
                                          ple, to consider the likely impacts of climate change in its agricultural and urban
                                          planning, assess the vulnerability of its coastal resources and communities to warm-
                                          ing and rising seas, and understand the economic costs of mismanaging water for
                                          the next generation of hydropower.
                                              This year, the World Bank launched a new program on Pollution Management
                                          and Environmental Health to help client countries in reducing air-, land- and water-
                                          based pollution and its impacts on health. The program will initially help such
                                          fast-urbanizing countries as China, the Arab Republic of Egypt, India, Nigeria, and
                                          South Africa to improve air-quality management in order to reduce deadly pollution.
                                          Many of the policies, tools, and technologies for addressing pollution already exist
                                          and could, if implemented at scale, save millions of lives while boosting quality of life
                                          and productivity in both urban and rural areas.
                                              Improved governance is also expected to create more opportunity for socially and
                                          environmentally responsible investment from the private sector. For example, the
                                          World Bank is working in Pacific Island countries to strengthen tuna fisheries man-
                                          agement, create conservation incentives for distant-water fishing nations, and attract
                                          private investment. And in West Africa, the Bank is helping countries to reap increased
                                          benefits from their fisheries by improving governance. Comprehensive fisheries reg-
                                          ulation and the creation of the country’s first monitoring center has helped Liberia to
                                          cut illegal fishing in half, collect almost $6 million in fines, and preserve an important
                                          source of livelihood and food security right through the Ebola crisis.




                                               Reducing the World Bank’s environmental footprint

                                               The World Bank is committed to environmental stewardship. As part of this com-
                                               mitment, the Bank accounts for its external impact by continually managing its
                                               environmental and social resources. The Bank measures, reduces, offsets, and
                                               reports on the greenhouse gas emissions asso­      ciated with its global facilities, major
                                               meetings, and air travel.
                                                   Total emissions for the Bank’s global facilities, including those for business travel
                                               and major meetings, were approximately 165,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide
                                               equivalent in fiscal 2014, the most recent data available. This is a decrease from fis-
                                               cal 2013 due in part to reduced business travel, electricity use, and generator use.
RWANDA © Simone D. McCourtie/World Bank




                                               To maintain carbon neutrality, the Bank purchases offsets for corporate emissions
                                               that cannot be reduced—Certified Emissions Reduction and Voluntary Emissions
                                               Reduction credits for facilities and travel and Renewable Energy Certificates for
                                               electricity consumption. In fiscal 2015, the Bank maintained carbon neutrality with
                                               a combination of Certified and Voluntary Emissions Reductions from energy effi-
                                               ciency and renewable energy projects in India and Uganda.




                                                                               	INTRODUCTION 	                                               21
 Advancing Inclusive Development and
 Opportunities for All



      N
                  o society can achieve its potential or meet the vast challenges of the 21st
                  century without the full and equal participation of all its people—whether
                  in education or the labor force, financial access or health care. For the
                  World Bank Group, helping countries to build healthier, more-equitable,
      and inclusive societies, with opportunities for everyone to achieve his or her poten-
      tial, is central to achieving the goals of sustainably ending extreme poverty and
      boosting shared prosperity.
          With its aim of universal health coverage, the Bank Group is working with devel-
      oping countries to provide quality, affordable health care to everyone—regardless of
      ability to pay—thereby reducing the financial risks associated with ill health and
      increasing equity. The Bank Group provides financing, state-of-the-art analysis, and
      policy advice to help countries to expand access to quality, affordable health care; to
      protect people from falling into poverty or becoming poorer because of illness; and
      to promote investments in all sectors that form the foundation of healthy societies.
          A key component of the Bank Group’s overall health care strategy is results-based
      financing, an innovative approach to expanding the quality and reach of health care
      services in the poorest countries by linking financing to results. This approach pays
      for outputs and outcomes rather than simply for inputs or processes—for example,
      increasing the percentage of women receiving antenatal care or having trained
      health care workers deliver their babies.
          In line with its commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals by
      2015, the Bank Group also focuses on preventing HIV/AIDS and other communicable
      diseases and scaling up support for early childhood nutrition. The Bank Group,
      along with the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, UBS (United Bank of Switzer-
      land) Optimus Foundation, the U.K. Department for International Development, and
      UNICEF, announced the Power of Nutrition fund, which aims to unlock $1 billion to
      tackle child undernutrition in some of the world’s poorest countries.
          In September 2014, the Bank Group and the governments of Canada, Norway,
      and the United States announced the creation of an innovative Global Financing
      Facility for reproductive, maternal, newborn, child, and adolescent health. The facility
      mobilizes support for developing countries’ plans to advance women’s and children’s
      health care. With a formal launch date in July 2015, this breakthrough partnership
      aims to help countries to scale up financing for evidence-based health interventions,
      including family planning and nutrition. The facility also supports the transition to
      long-term, sustainable domestic financing as countries grow from low- to middle-
      income economies, and helps countries to expand civil registration and vital statistics
      efforts to register every pregnancy, every birth, and every death by 2030.
          Education is one of the surest ways of ending extreme poverty, yet today 121
      million children remain out of primary and lower secondary school—and 250 million
      have not learned to read or write, despite many having been to school. Reaching
      these children requires smart, evidence-based solutions. The World Bank’s total edu-
      cation investment is now more than $14 billion. The Bank also provides cutting-edge
      research and impact evaluations to guide policy making. In Angola, for example, the
      Bank’s analysis of the education system helped to pave the way for large-scale
      reform of student assessment. In addition, evidence shows that linking education
      financing to results works. Over the past five years, the World Bank Group’s results-



22	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
based financing grew to about $2.5 billion. The Bank Group has pledged to double
results-based financing to $5 billion over the next five years.
    Women play a vital role in driving the robust, shared growth needed to build
resilient societies, but in many parts of the world, their potential, participation, and
productive capacity are undervalued and untapped. Further, many women and girls
lack or cannot exercise basic rights, freedoms, and opportunities, and face discrim-
inatory laws and norms that constrain their time and choices. More than one in three
women worldwide face gender-based violence.
    Through its lending, knowledge, and convening power, the Bank Group is work-
ing to lift constraints and empower women and girls globally. In Brazil, for example,
a $500 million loan to update and interconnect Rio de Janeiro’s urban transport
system has been designed to also deliver a range of economic and legal resources
to women: centers in five major stations that offer legal, medical, child care, and
counseling support to those affected by domestic violence; onboard domestic vio-
lence counseling units on six train lines; and broad anti–domestic-violence aware-
ness campaigns periodically undertaken by the SuperVia system.
    The Bank Group is also committed to collecting more and better data about
women and girls, such as information on their paid and unpaid work, access to bank
accounts, and ownership or control over productive assets. It is partnering with oth-
ers to scale up the collection of vital statistics: marriage and divorce registrations
expand the ability of women and girls to own and inherit property, while birth and
marriage registrations can help to prevent early and forced marriage.
    More than 2 billion adults—men and women—still lack access to formal financial
services. The Bank Group has set an ambitious goal of achieving universal financial
access by 2020. This goal envisions that adults worldwide will have access to a trans-
action account to store money and to send and receive payments, enabling all peo-
ple to manage risks, increase income, and move out of poverty. In April 2015, the
Bank Group and a broad coalition of development and private sector partners made
concrete commitments to reach financially excluded adults by 2020. The Bank
Group itself committed to enabling 1 billion adults to gain access to a transaction
account. The Bank, together with the BIS (Bank for International Settlements) Com-
mittee on Payments and Market Infrastructures, launched a task force on the pay-
ment aspects of financial inclusion. The task force is charged with developing
guidance for financial authorities, policy makers, and the private sector on how to
shape their efforts to advance access to transaction accounts. Its work will be the
foundation for the achievement of universal financial access.
    Islamic finance can also expand the number of adults with financial access and
enhance overall financial sector development. It promotes risk sharing, connects the
financial sector with the real economy, and emphasizes financial inclusion and social
welfare. The Bank’s involvement in Islamic finance is linked to its work on reducing
poverty, expanding access to finance, and building financial sector stability and
resilience. In fiscal 2015, the Bank helped Egypt and Turkey to design Sharia-
compliant frameworks to expand financing for small and medium-size enterprises.



    Increasing citizen engagement and committing to 100 percent
    beneficiary feedback
    Long-term development and prosperity require effective, trustworthy, and transparent public
    sector institutions that sustain citizen confidence. Citizen engagement is indispensable to the
    honest give-and-take that shapes effective project planning. The World Bank Group has pur-
    sued a number of programs to enhance the effectiveness of development projects through
    citizen engagement. In Kenya and Pakistan, projects to improve service delivery and account-
    ability use technology that provides direct links for real-time customer feedback. This year, the
    Bank Group also developed and implemented a Strategic Framework for Mainstreaming Citizen
    Engagement in World Bank Group Operations, with the goal of achieving 100 percent benefi-
    ciary feedback by 2018 in World Bank–supported projects with clearly definable beneficiaries.




                                    	                                  2015 OVERVIEW 	           23
 Building Resilience and Managing Risks



      I
          n the effort to reach the Bank Group’s goals, it is important to recognize that it
          is not enough to address the causes of extreme poverty. There must also be sys-
          tems in place that buffer individuals from the effects of shocks and disasters that
          can reverse the progress made in lifting people out of poverty. Building societies’
      resilience requires addressing the challenges of fragility, conflict, and violence where
      they occur, mitigating and managing the effects of natural disasters, and ensuring
      that adequate social safety nets are in place.
          It is estimated that by 2030, half of the world’s extreme poor will live in countries
      affected by fragility, conflict, and violence. This challenge is widespread, not con-
      fined to low-income countries. The past few years have seen a spike in conflicts,
      with an increase in casualties and 50 million people displaced globally, the highest
      level since the end of World War II. Violence and conflict also threaten shared pros-
      perity: Homicide rates in countries with a Gini (inequality) index greater than 0.45
      are four times higher than the homicide rates in more-equal societies.
          Building the knowledge base to address these challenges is critical. At the World
      Bank Fragility, Conflict, and Violence Forum in February 2015, more than 200 speak-
      ers shared their expertise on topics ranging from Ebola, the private sector, youth
      voices, and resilience to redefining fragility. Among the Bank’s analytical works this
      year, The Challenge of Stability and Security in West Africa identified key lessons in
      the dynamics of resilience against political violence and civil war.
          To ensure that programs, implementation arrangements, and risk and results
      frameworks are responsive to fragility, conflict, and violence, the Bank is preparing
      fragility analyses for 18 Systematic Country Diagnostics in low-income, fragile and
      conflict-affected–situation countries as well as in middle-income countries facing
      fragility, which will inform Country Partnership Frameworks.
          The Bank is also working with partners, including the United Nations, to pro-
      mote a more effective and sustainable international response to fragility. UN
      Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and President Kim’s joint visit to the Horn of Africa
      in October 2014 contributed to strengthening collaboration on regional and country
      strategies.
          The World Bank Group continues to support development of the private sector
      and job opportunities in fragile and conflict-affected situations. A new employment
      diagnostic tool has been created and is being used in South Sudan and Afghanistan.
      An analysis of the dynamics of labor markets in countries with refugees from the
      Syrian crisis was conducted to mitigate the impact on host communities and to
      identify policy options.


24	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
 PHILIPPINES © Danilo Victoriano/World Bank


    Natural disasters hurt the poor and vulnerable the most, and the impacts of
disasters will continue to rise with the exacerbating trend of climate change. Helping
countries to mitigate the risks of disasters is a key global challenge to ensure devel-
opment gains. In collaboration with the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and
Recovery, the Bank is working to advance risk identification, risk reduction, pre-
paredness, and resilient recovery, as well as financial protection through disaster risk
financing and insurance.
    The World Bank started supporting countries on risk financing in the early 2000s.
Today the Bank is active in more than 40 countries. In fiscal 2015, the Bank leveraged
$3.4 billion in risk financing solutions to vulnerable countries, and expanded disaster
risk financing to additional countries and regions, such as Central America and 10
countries in Africa. The Bank’s goal is to improve a society’s—including governments,
businesses, and households—financial resilience against natural disasters. The Bank
also helps countries to develop financial protection strategies to plan for when disas-
ter strikes. With the Bank’s support, Panama in 2014 became the first country to
implement a comprehensive framework for disaster risk financing and insurance.
    Social protection programs and social safety nets can have direct, positive
impacts on poor families by helping them to improve productivity, cope with shocks,
invest in the health care and education of their children, and protect the aging pop-
ulation. Helping governments to move from fragmented and inefficient programs to
better-targeted, social protection systems is central to the effort. Well-designed
social protection and labor programs are cost-effective, costing countries only about
1.0–1.5 percent of GDP.
    Annual lending for social safety nets in the world’s poorest countries averaged
$648 million from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2014—twice the volume of its lending in this
sector to middle-income countries over the same period. These resources support
social safety net programs, including cash transfers, labor-intensive public works, and
school feeding programs. Cash transfers increasingly are an important safety net tool,
particularly in postconflict and fragile societies. These programs cushion the impact of
income shocks and aid the drive to end extreme poverty and achieve shared prosper-
ity in a sustainable manner. The Bank is also scaling up social safety nets, with $32 mil-
lion of financing for the Ebola-affected countries of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.




    The World Bank Group’s emergency response to the West Africa Ebola crisis
    The World Bank Group’s response to the Ebola crisis encompasses stopping the spread of
    infections, improving public health systems throughout West Africa, and helping countries
    to cope with the economic impact. The Bank Group is working closely with affected coun-
    tries to get to zero Ebola cases and plan for recovery. The plan for recovery includes get-
    ting children back to school, farmers back to their fields, businesses back up and running,
    and investors back to the countries. The Bank’s work with affected countries also includes
    building stronger health care systems.
        The Bank Group mobilized more than $1.6 billion to date in financing for Ebola response
    and recovery efforts. This includes nearly $1.2 billion from IDA and $450 million from IFC
    to enable trade, investment, and employment in the affected countries of Guinea, Liberia,
    and Sierra Leone. To revive agriculture and avert hunger in the Ebola-hit countries of West
    Africa, the Bank Group helped to deliver fertilizer and a record 10,500 tons of maize, cow-
    pea, and rice seed for up to 200,000 farmers in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. The seeds
    were delivered in time for the April 2015 planting season.
        With the lessons of Ebola in mind, the Bank Group is currently developing a plan for a
    new pandemic emergency facility that would enable resources to flow quickly when and
    where outbreaks occur. (See worldbank.org/ebolaresponse.)




                                      	                                 2015 OVERVIEW 	      25
      The diversity of development: World Bank
      global engagement
      As the world reflects on the Millennium Development Goals and refines a new sustain-
      able development agenda, it is evident now more than ever that development is no
      longer the work of traditional actors and donors alone. Achieving positive development
      outcomes will increasingly rely on engagement with a diversity of stakeholders.
          The World Bank Group’s global outreach over the past year has reflected this reality.
      Fiscal 2015 was an important year for strengthening existing partnerships and finding
      innovative ways to build new ones.
          World Bank collaboration with the United Nations continues to grow stronger. The
      UN called on the Bank to play a leadership role in shaping the way the post-2015
      agenda will be financed. The Bank has already made important strides toward unlock-
      ing nontraditional sources of development finance and moving beyond official devel-
      opment assistance alone.
          The Bank forged an alliance this year with Action/2015, a global coalition of 1,200
      civil society organizations in 125 countries. At the Spring Meetings, leaders of the
      Action/2015 coalition joined President Kim and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
      onstage at a high-energy advocacy event, urging participants to mobilize support for
      people and the planet.
          When more than 200 parliamentarians from 80 countries convened for the Bank’s
      largest-ever Global Parliamentary Conference, their focus was the post-2015 agenda.
      They discussed the key role that legislators play in translating global development goals
      into actionable policies. (See worldbank.org/parliamentarians.) A group of 35 leaders
      from the world’s major faiths and faith-based organizations gathered at the Bank in
      February to discuss ways to strengthen partnerships to combat poverty. In April, reli-
      gious leaders launched a moral imperative to end extreme poverty by 2030, which
      outlines their commitment to this goal and will galvanize global efforts around it.
          World Bank advocacy efforts have extended beyond the walls of the institution, rec-
      ognizing the need to stimulate greater citizen engagement in the development process
      to achieve the 2030 goal. This spring, the Bank partnered with the Global Poverty Proj-
      ect and Earth Day 2015 on a public advocacy–driven music festival to raise awareness
      and inspire action to end extreme poverty and protect our planet. A crowd of more
      than 250,000 gathered on the National Mall in Washington, DC, and millions more




26	        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
watched online as global leaders delivered major development commitments that can
improve the lives of nearly 100 million people.
    The World Bank Group’s convening power and its leadership around resource
mobilization proved to be critical in its support of the global community’s response
to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. This work depended on forging successful part-
nerships with governments, UN agencies, the private sector, civil society, and beyond.
The Bank also helped to stimulate engagement and collaboration on the topic of
jobs. The 2014 Foundations Advisory Council meeting sparked an ongoing conversa-
tion with prominent foundation leaders on jobs; and it has resulted in jobs-focused
partnerships and initiatives around youth, technology, and gender-based violence. (See
worldbank.org/foundations.)
    Collaboration with civil society to refine Bank Group operational policies has been
scaled up. In the most extensive consultation exercise ever conducted by the World
Bank, civil society representatives and other stakeholders from 65 countries participated
in a review of the Bank’s environmental and social safeguards. Civil society organizations
have provided important contributions to this ongoing process, which will result in an
evolution of policies and ensure alignment with international best practice on environ-
mental and social protections. Civil society also continues to engage in other key policy
dialogues and strategic collaboration initiatives. (See worldbank.org/civilsociety.)
    Results from the Bank’s Country Opinion Survey, which surveys stakeholders from 40
client countries every year, reveal the effects of its increasing efforts to engage with
clients, partners, and other stakeholders. In the most recent survey, stakeholders who
said they collaborate with the World Bank were significantly more positive than those
who did not about nearly every area of our work, including how the Bank operates and
engages on the ground and its overall effectiveness, relevance, openness, and respon-
siveness. (See countrysurveys.worldbank.org.)




Conducting business in a sustainable manner
Sustainability is an overarching theme that frames the goals of the World Bank Group.
A sustainable path to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity would man-
age the resources of the planet for future generations, ensure social inclusion, and
adopt fiscally responsible policies that limit future debt burden.
    The World Bank is equally committed to sustainability in its daily activities. This
means engaging in business practices that enhance the well-being of staff while pro-
tecting the ecosystems, communities, and economies in which the Bank operates.
Reducing the environmental impact from internal activities, for example, is intrinsically
linked to sustainable development because environmental degradation impacts the
world’s poor the most. The Bank is also committed to ensuring the diversity, health, and
safety of staff, consultants, and contractors to safeguard its most valuable business
resource—its talented employees. This year’s Sustainability Review explores these and
other themes of corporate responsibility.  
    The Bank’s Sustainability Review 2015 complements the financial and operational
data presented in the Annual Report. The review uses the international standard for
sustainability reporting—the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)—and is available in XBRL
format. Employing GRI guidelines and stakeholder perspectives, the Bank discloses the
most material aspects of its environmental, social, and financial activities. This transpar-
ency supports the Bank’s business model, and enables it to better promote and deliver
on its mission. (See worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility.)




 WASHINGTON, DC © Simone McCourtie/World Bank


                                   	                                 2015 OVERVIEW 	           27
      Ensuring accountability and improving
      operations at the World Bank
      To ensure that it holds itself accountable to its clients and shareholders and main-
      tains the highest performance standards in development, the World Bank works
      with the Inspection Panel and the Independent Evaluation Group, both of which
      operate independently from Bank management.
          The Inspection Panel, established to ensure greater accountability at the World
      Bank, is an independent complaints mechanism for people who believe their liveli-
      hoods or the environment have been, or are likely to be, harmed by an IBRD- or
      IDA-financed project. It also promotes institutional learning and helps to improve
      the development effectiveness of Bank operations. The panel is composed of three
      members from different countries, selected for their international development
      expertise, and a small secretariat. During fiscal 2015, the panel received nine com-
      plaints and carried out investigations or sought expedited problem solving in
      Bank-financed projects in Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Nepal, Nigeria, and Paraguay. (See
      worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.)
          Evaluation enhances accountability and informs the formulation of new direc-
      tions, policies, and procedures, as well as country and sector strategies, for the World
      Bank Group’s work. The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assesses the results
      of work from across the entire Bank Group and offers recommendations for improve-
      ment. These efforts translate findings into results, thus enhancing the Bank Group’s
      contributions to development results by ensuring both accountability and learning.
      IEG’s most recent annual review discusses how the Bank Group integrated the
      Millennium Development Goals into its strategies while also pursuing a broader
      approach to poverty reduction. (See ieg.worldbank.org.)
          The World Bank ensures the integrity of Bank-financed projects and the efficacy
      of internal operations through the work of two of its units—the Integrity Vice Pres-
      idency and the Internal Audit Vice Presidency—both of which report directly to the
      World Bank Group President.
          The Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) is mandated to prevent, deter, investigate,
      and manage litigation relating to fraud and corruption in Bank-financed projects. As
      a result of INT’s investigations, during fiscal 2015, the Bank sanctioned 74 entities
      and agreed on 11 settlements with companies involved in sanctionable practices.
      The Bank, together with other participating multilateral development banks, recog-
      nized 76 cross-debarments. Increasingly multijurisdictional and complex, investiga-
      tions are helping the Bank to tackle risks associated with certain sectors and
      high-value contracts. INT also advises on the design and implementation of risk
      mitigation and monitoring tools. This year, INT hosted the third Biennial Meeting of
      the International Corruption Hunters Alliance. More than 300 senior officials of anti-
      corruption agencies attended the meeting, which focused on illicit financial flows,
      transnational bribery, new financial investigative techniques, collective action with
      the private sector, and wildlife crime. (See worldbank.org/integrity.)
          The Internal Audit Vice Presidency (IAD) has an independent and objective
      assurance advisory function designed to add value by improving World Bank Group
      operations. IAD primarily focuses on assessing whether governance, risk manage-
      ment, and control processes of the Bank Group are effective in achieving the orga-
      nization’s goals. IAD also provides advice to management in developing control
      solutions, and monitors the implementation of management actions to mitigate
      risks and strengthen controls. In fiscal 2015, IAD focused on key areas in the Bank
      Group strategy and the institutional change agenda. This included auditing the
      Bank’s monitoring the delivery of analytical and advisory services; auditing the
      implementation of the new human resources information system; advising manage-
      ment on the staffing approach for country management units, in the context of the
      broader expenditure review; and advising on the Bank Group’s adoption of cloud
      computing.




28	        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
The Regions



T
           he World Bank today operates out of 135 offices worldwide. An increased
           presence in client countries is helping the Bank to better understand, work
           more effectively with, and provide more timely services to its partners in those
           countries. Ninety-six percent of Country Directors/Country Managers and
40 percent of staff are based in countries within each of the six geographical regions.
The following section highlights the major goals achieved, projects undertaken, strat-
egies revised, and publications produced in fiscal 2015. For more information, visit
worldbank.org/countries.



TABLE 3
FISCAL 2015 COMMITMENTS
	                                         IBRD 	        IDA	      TOTAL IBRD/IDA	 TOTAL IBRD/IDA
REGION	                               ($ MILLIONS)	 ($ MILLIONS)	  ($ MILLIONS)	 SHARE (PERCENT)
 Africa                                  1,209        10,360         11,569            27
 East Asia and Pacific                   4,539         1,803          6,342            15
 Europe and Central Asia                 6,679           527          7,207            17
 Latin America and the Caribbean         5,709           315          6,024            14
 Middle East and North Africa            3,294           198          3,492             8
 South Asia                              2,098         5,762          7,860            18
 Total                                  23,528        18,966         42,495           100




TABLE 4
FISCAL 2015 DISBURSEMENTS
	                                         IBRD 	        IDA	      TOTAL IBRD/IDA	 TOTAL IBRD/IDA
REGION	                               ($ MILLIONS)	 ($ MILLIONS)	  ($ MILLIONS)	 SHARE (PERCENT)
 Africa                                    816        6,595            7,411          23
 East Asia and Pacific                   3,596        1,499           5,094           16
 Europe and Central Asia                 5,829          314           6,144           19
 Latin America and the Caribbean         5,726          383            6,110          19
 Middle East and North Africa            1,779          194           1,974            6
 South Asia                              1,266        3,919           5,185           16
 Total                                  19,012       12,905          31,918          100

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2015: $191.9 billion.
Africa


      G
                  rowth in Sub-Saharan Africa will slow to 4.1 percent in 2015, down from
                  4.5 percent in 2014. The downturn largely reflects the decline in the
                  prices of oil and other commodities. Growth will remain strong in most
                  low-income countries, however, thanks to infrastructure investment and
      agriculture expansion, although lower commodity prices will dampen activity in
      countries that export metals and other key commodities. Continued expansion of
      nonoil sectors, particularly services, is expected to lift growth in 2016 and beyond.
      Growth is expected to increase in lower-middle- and upper-middle-income coun-
      tries, propelled by higher public investment and the recovery of tourism.

      World Bank assistance
      The Bank approved $1   1.6 billion for the region for 103 projects this fiscal year. Sup-
      port included $1.2 billion in IBRD loans and $10.4 billion in IDA commitments. The
      leading sectors were Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($3.0 billion); Health
      and Other Social Services ($2.8 billion); and Transportation ($1.2 billion).
         World Bank activity in Africa included supporting regional integration, address-
      ing development-related drivers of fragility and conflict, increasing access to power,
      supporting small farmers and boosting agricultural productivity, as well as designing
      and implementing economic recovery plans in the countries affected by the Ebola
      epidemic.

      Fostering regional integration
      Regional integration in Africa remains a critical piece of the Bank’s work to improve
      connectivity, leverage economies of scale, and enhance productivity. This fiscal year
      regional integration continued to move forward, with subregional initiatives to
      address the drivers of fragility and conflict in the Great Lakes, the Sahel, and the Horn
      of Africa. This year, Sub-Saharan Africa’s regional integration–related lending was
      about $2.3 billion.
          IDA assistance finances regional infrastructure (energy, transport, irrigation, infor-
      mation and communication technology); sexual and gender-based antiviolence and
      women’s health initiatives; trade and economic integration; and regional public
      goods, such as disease surveillance laboratories. Approved projects include support
      to improve access to essential productive assets, services, and markets for pastoralists
      and agropastoralists across six Sahel countries; and support to power pools, such as
      the South Africa Power Pool, which create regional markets for electricity to boost
      generation, lower costs, and improve competitiveness.

      Increasing access to power
      Inadequate power remains the greatest infrastructure obstacle in Africa. Increasing
      access to affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy is therefore a primary objective

30	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015

 UGANDA © Sarah Farhat/World Bank




of the Bank’s work in the region. Projects focus on developing hydro-                    COUNTRIES
power and other forms of sustainable power to increase energy produc-                    ELIGIBLE FOR
                                                                                         WORLD BANK
tion and benefit millions of Africans.
                                                                                         BORROWING*
    IBRD is partnering with IFC and MIGA to support a joint energy busi-
                                                                                         Angola
ness plan for Nigeria by leveraging the full range of the World Bank
                                                                                         Benin
Group’s products and expertise to attract private investment. The plan                   Botswana
will support the country’s energy reform program and help it to increase                 Burkina Faso
installed generation capacity by about 1,000 megawatts. The Bank is                      Burundi
also supporting the 80-megawatt Regional Rusumo Falls Hydroelectric                      Cabo Verde
                                                                                         Cameroon
Project in Burundi, Rwanda, and Tanzania. The Bank approved support
                                                                                         Central African
for an interconnector project to facilitate electricity trade between The                   Republic
Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, and Senegal.                                              Chad
                                                                                         Comoros
                                                                                         Democratic Republic
Adapting to climate change and managing disaster risk                                       of Congo
Climate change is taking a toll on Africa—and it is hitting the region’s                 Republic of Congo
                                                                                         Côte d’Ivoire
poor the hardest. Rainfall volatility has increased in the Sahel and other
                                                                                         Equatorial Guinea
dry lands, where water resources are continuously depleted. Natural                      Ethiopia
disasters, such as droughts in East Africa and floods and cyclones in                    Gabon
southern Africa, are increasing in frequency and intensity. Investing in                 The Gambia
climate change adaptation techniques and disaster risk management                        Ghana
                                                                                         Guinea
remains a top priority. In fiscal 2015, the World Bank’s Board of Executive
                                                                                         Guinea-Bissau
Directors approved a $300 million IDA credit for the Dar es Salaam                       Kenya
Metropolitan Development Project in Tanzania, which will improve key                     Lesotho
services to address flooding, urban mobility, and basic infrastructure in                Liberia
low-income communities for 1.5 million residents.                                        Madagascar
                                                                                         Malawi
                                                                                         Mali
Raising agricultural productivity and output                                             Mauritania
There is a continuing need to accelerate progress in boosting agricultural               Mauritius
                                                                                         Mozambique
productivity and output in Africa. The Bank is assisting smallholders—
                                                                                         Namibia
through programs that finance investment in improved technologies,                       Niger
rural financial services, and better access to markets. It is spurring                   Nigeria
increased agribusiness investments and efforts to improve land and                       Rwanda
water management by adopting modern irrigation practices, preventing                     São Tomé and
                                                                                            Príncipe
conflicts over water resources, and implementing climate-smart agri-
                                                                                         Senegal
culture solutions. It is supporting country-led efforts by linking farmers               Seychelles
to markets and reducing risk and vulnerability, increasing rural employ-                 Sierra Leone
ment, and making agriculture more environmentally sustainable. Proj-                     South Africa
ects approved this fiscal year include joint Bank-IFC support to develop                 South Sudan
                                                                                         Swaziland
commercially oriented and competitive value chains in Cameroon, and
                                                                                         Tanzania
support to increase and intensify the productivity of the Rwandan agri-                  Togo
cultural and livestock sectors.                                                          Uganda
                                                                                         Zambia
Responding to and recovering from the Ebola epidemic                                     *as of June 30, 2015

The Bank Group mobilized more than $1.6 billion in assistance to
Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone following the outbreak of Ebola in
2014. The initial emergency response from IDA, most of it in the form of grants,
is helping the three countries to provide treatment and care, contain and prevent
the spread of infections, allow communities to cope with the economic impact
of the crisis, and improve public health systems.


TABLE 5  AFRICA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2013–15
	                             COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                      DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
	                           FY13	 FY14	FY15	                               FY13	 FY14	 FY15
    IBRD	                   42	 420	1,209	                                 429	 335a	816
    IDA	                   8,203	 10,193	10,360	                          5,799	 6,604	 6,595
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2015: $52.0 billion.
a. Figure revised from Annual Report 2014 because of rounding.


                                         	                                       THE REGIONS 	            31
FIGURE 1  AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $11.6 BILLION

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection             7%   8%                 Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry


                                                               6%                                  Education
Transportation                            11%
                                                                    9%                    Energy and Mining

                                                                    6%                               Finance
Public Administration,
Law, and Justice                    26%

Information and Communications                1%
Industry and Trade                                 3%      24%              Health and Other Social Services




FIGURE 2  AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $11.6 BILLION

Urban Development                                   8%   4%                         Economic Management

                                                                                   Environment and Natural
Trade and Integration                         6%                 5%                 Resources Management
Social Protection and
                                    12%                                                 Financial and Private
Risk Management
                                                                      15%               Sector Development

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion              2%
                                                                    22%                Human Development
Rural Development                    13%


Rule of Law                                   <1%        12%                      Public Sector Governance




Nigeria State Health Investment Project


B
      etter health care for women and children in low-income households is a formidable challenge
      in Nigeria. Annually, around 900,000 children under age five and women die from easily
      preventable causes, accounting for 13 percent of all under-five deaths and 14 percent of all
maternal deaths worldwide. Although Nigeria has numerous primary health centers and a relatively
high level of investment in health care, good-quality basic health services are not easily available
to poor people.
    To improve the situation, the government launched the Nigeria State Health Investment Project
in 2012. It is a five-year, $171 million program funded by IDA and the Health Results Innovation
Trust Fund, and strengthens the health care system using performance-based financing. The result
of pilots in three states—Adamawa, Ondo, and Nasarawa—has been a threefold increase in the
performance of health care facilities. Now more women go for antenatal care, more skilled birth
attendants are available during delivery, and more children are being immunized. In the past year,
immunization coverage increased from 24 percent to 50 percent in Adamawa, 49 percent to
59 percent in Ondo, and 41 percent to 46 percent in Nasarawa. Similarly, institutional deliveries
increased from 29 percent to 40 percent in Adamawa, 20 percent to 26 percent in Ondo, and 27
percent to 46 percent in Nasarawa.
    Following the three successful pilots, the World Bank continued its long-term commitment by
approving additional financing in June 2014 to expand the reach of the project to 937 facilities
in 52 local areas.

                                          	                                  THE REGIONS 	              32
TABLE 6  AFRICA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2008	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	                                664	        819	       961
Population growth (annual %)	                               2.7	        2.7	        2.7
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	                 501	       1,131	     1,720
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           0.7	        2.2	        1.6
Population living on less than $1.25 a
  day (millions)	                                          386b	403	416
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                   51	         55	        58
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    49	          53	        56
Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	                62	          —	         64
Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	                  76	          —	         75
Labor participation rate, females
(% population ages 15+)	                                    62	          63	        64
Labor participation rate, males
(% population ages 15+)	                                    77	          76	        77
Proportion of seats held by women in
national parliaments (% total)	                              12	         18	        22
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                        550	        712	       739
Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
(metric tons) 	                                             0.8	        0.9	        0.8



PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
	                                                         1990	  CURRENT	           2015	              TREND +
MDG	                                                    BASELINE	DATAa	             GOAL	            2015 TARGET

MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population 	
below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)	                             56.8	         46.9	       28.0
MDG 2.a Primary completion rate 	
(% relevant age group)	                                    54	           69	        100
MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary
and secondary education (%)	                               81	           91	        100	
MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate 	
(per 1,000 live births)	                                   107	          61	         36

MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)	                179	          92	         60	

MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio 	
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)	               990	          510	       248

MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water 	
(% population with access)	                                48	           64	         74

MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation 	
facilities (% population with access)	                     24	           30	         62

Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2014; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
    = 2015 MDG target.


                                           	                                              THE REGIONS 	             33
East Asia and Pacific


      E
             ast Asia and Pacific accounted for one-third of global economic growth in
             2014—twice the combined contribution of all other developing regions. Eco-
             nomic growth eased slightly in the region’s developing countries even as the
             region benefited from a continued economic recovery in developed econo-
      mies and from lower oil prices.
         The developing economies of East Asia and Pacific are projected to grow by 6.7
      percent a year in 2015 and 2016, down from 6.9 percent in 2014. The slight slow-
      down largely reflects the expected moderation in China’s growth to about 7 percent
      during the next two years, down from 7.4 percent in 2014. Growth in the rest of
      developing East Asia is expected to reach 4.9 percent in 2015 and 5.4 percent in
      2016, driven primarily by the large Southeast Asian economies.
         Extreme poverty has fallen faster in this region than in any other. The proportion
      of people living on $1.25 a day declined from 26.5 percent in 2002 to 5.1 percent
      in 2014, leaving slightly more than 100 million people in extreme poverty. Another
      260 million people live on $1.25–$2.00 a day and are vulnerable to falling back into
      extreme poverty.


      World Bank assistance
      The Bank approved $6.3 billion for the region for 57 projects this fiscal year. Support
      included $4.5 billion in IBRD loans and $1.8 billion in IDA commitments. The leading
      sectors were Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection ($1.2 billion); Public Administra-
      tion, Law, and Justice ($1.2 billion); and Transportation ($1.2 billion).
          The Bank’s strategy in the region focuses on five priority areas: inclusion and
      empowerment, jobs and private sector–led growth, governance and institutions,
      infrastructure and urbanization, and climate change and disaster risk management.
      The Bank also focuses on the cross-cutting themes of gender, fragility and conflict,
      and poverty analytics.
          The region faces huge infrastructure needs and rapid urbanization. As many as
      142 million people have no access to power, and 600 million lack access to adequate
      sanitation. The rapid migration to cities is putting pressure on service delivery and
      leading to large urban slums, pollution, and environmental degradation. The region
      also includes 13 of the 30 countries most vulnerable to climate change, and experi-
      ences 70 percent of the world’s natural disasters.


      Restoring full engagement with Myanmar
      Myanmar and the World Bank Group launched a new Country Partnership Framework
      for 2015–17, the first full country strategy since 1984. Under the strategy, IDA provides
      up to $1.6 billion in concessional credits, technical assistance, and knowledge; IFC
      provides up to $1 billion in investments and $20 million in technical assistance; and

34	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015

 VIETNAM © Vietnam Urban Upgrading Project/World Bank



MIGA provides political risk insurance to private lenders and investors in                COUNTRIES
Myanmar.                                                                                  ELIGIBLE FOR
                                                                                          WORLD BANK
    The Country Partnership Framework focuses Bank Group support on
                                                                                          BORROWING*
reducing rural poverty; investing in people and effective, inclusive insti-
                                                                                          Cambodia
tutions that empower people; and creating private sector jobs. It builds
                                                                                          China
on findings from the recent Systematic Country Diagnostic, extensive                      Fiji
consultations with a wide range of stakeholders, and lessons learned                      Indonesia
since reengagement in 2012.                                                               Kiribati
                                                                                          Republic of Korea
                                                                                          Lao People’s
Confronting vulnerability in the Pacific                                                     Democratic
                                                                                             Republic
The Bank Group has significantly scaled up its engagement with the                        Malaysia
Pacific Island nations over the past several years to help strengthen their               Marshall Islands
resilience to economic and natural shocks. These shocks result from the                   Federated States of
                                                                                             Micronesia
islands’ high vulnerability to natural disasters and their small size and
                                                                                          Mongolia
geographical isolation.                                                                   Myanmar
    In March 2015, Tropical Cyclone Pam tore through the South Pacific,                   Palau
causing significant damage to Vanuatu and Tuvalu. The Bank partic-                        Papua New Guinea
ipated in the postdisaster needs assessment for Vanuatu, which esti-                      Philippines
mated damage and losses at $447 million, equivalent to 64 percent of                      Samoa
Vanuatu’s GDP. To help finance the substantial reconstruction needs,                      Solomon Islands
                                                                                          Thailand
an IDA credit of $59.5 million approved in May 2015 for Vanuatu’s
                                                                                          Timor-Leste
Aviation Investment Project also contributes to emergency repairs to
                                                                                          Tonga
Vanuatu’s international airports. In addition, the Bank is to draw on $18                 Tuvalu
million of unallocated IDA17 resources and $50 million from IDA’s Cri-                    Vanuatu
sis Response Window. Cyclone Pam triggered a $1.9 million payout to                       Vietnam
Vanuatu through the Pacific Catastrophe Risk Insurance Pilot project, a           *as of June 30, 2015
joint effort of the government of Japan, the World Bank, and the Secre-
tariat of the Pacific Community.
    Tuvalu also sustained heavy damage to critical infrastructure, parti­
cularly to its protective seawalls. Financing of $3 million from the Crisis Response
Window is to help the government manage the unanticipated costs of postcy-
clone reconstruction while maintaining the country’s fiscal reforms.


Strengthening knowledge partnerships to deliver solutions
Knowledge continues to be a strategic priority in the Bank Group’s partnerships.
This fiscal year the government of Vietnam and the World Bank initiated a report
that helps policy makers to define a long-term development strategy for trans-
forming Vietnam into a modern industrial country by 2035. The government of
China, the Bank Group, and the World Health Organization initiated a joint study
of China’s health care system. The study, which will be published in 2016, offers
options to help China strengthen health service delivery and performance, maxi-
mize value for the money, and improve the health of all its citizens. In addition, the
Bank Group is working with Pacific Island stakeholders on a strategic study look-
ing at long-term development opportunities and challenges for the subregion.
   The government of Malaysia signed a formal agreement with the Bank to open
an office in Kuala Lumpur. The agreement will help to share Malaysia’s successful
development experience with other developing countries, and enable it to better
leverage global knowledge and expertise to become a high-income economy.


TABLE 7  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2013–15
	                             COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                      DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
	                           FY13	 FY14	FY15	                               FY13	 FY14	 FY15
    IBRD	                  3,661	 4,181	4,539	                            3,621	 3,397	 3,596
    IDA	                   2,586	 2,131	1,803	                            1,764	 1,459	 1,499
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2015: $31.6 billion.


                                         	                                       THE REGIONS 	            35
   The Bank Group continues to build partnerships with the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the Pacific Island Forum, the Asian Develop-
ment Bank, the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Japan International
Cooperation Agency, and others to maximize development impact.

FIGURE 3  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.3 BILLION

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection       19%         15%             Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry



                                                                 4%                              Education

                                                                  8%                    Energy and Mining
Transportation                      18%
                                                                  8%                               Finance

                                                                  4%       Health and Other Social Services

                                                                 5%                     Industry and Trade

Public Administration, Law, and Justice        18%          1%            Information and Communications




FIGURE 4  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.3 BILLION

Urban Development                             24%         <1%                     Economic Management

                                                                                 Environment and Natural
                                                                 13%              Resources Management

Trade and Integration                1%
                                                                                     Financial and Private
Social Protection                                                 20%                Sector Development
and Risk Management               2%
Social Development, Gender,
and Inclusion                     3%                              5%                Human Development
                                                                 5%             Public Sector Governance


Rural Development                                   27%     0%                                Rule of Law




Improving rural health care in China


T
       he World Bank’s Rural Health Project for China, which concluded in December 2014, supported
       the government’s efforts to address the high cost and poor quality of care, particularly in
       rural areas. The project—implemented in 40 counties across eight provinces over six years—
included a series of comprehensive reform pilot projects that tested solutions that can be applied
more broadly to help China provide equal access to affordable, high-quality health care services
for the rural population.
    Under the project, hospitals like the People’s Hospital of Yiyang County adopted a new system of
standardized clinical protocols to treat patients. These protocols serve as a road map for caregivers
and patients throughout their treatment, listing everything from what tests a patient can expect before
surgery to how soon a patient should be discharged from the hospital and how much each treatment
costs. Other reform measures include a performance-based payment system to motivate medical staff
to provide better patient care.
    These reforms reduced hospital stays at the People’s Hospital by more than a full day, cut medical
expenses by 5–8 percent, and increased the patient satisfaction rate to 99 percent. “Before, we had
to pay a deposit before hospitalization and had no idea how big a bill we’d get when we were about
to leave hospital. Now we know exactly how much we’ll need to pay even before being hospitalized
and can make payment later,” said Xinglian Yao, a villager in Yiyang County.




                                          	                                 THE REGIONS 	            36
TABLE 8  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2008	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	                               1,812	      1,935	     2,020
Population growth (annual %)	                               1.0	        0.7	        0.7
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	                 912	       2,763	     6,122
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           6.5	         7.7	       6.1
Population living on less than $1.25 a
  day (millions)	                                          661b	272	161
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                  73	          75	        76
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    69	          71	        72
Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	                98	          —	         99
Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	                  98	          —	         99
Labor participation rate, females
(% population ages 15+)	                                    67	          63	        63
Labor participation rate, males
(% population ages 15+)	                                    83	          79	        79
Proportion of seats held by women in
national parliaments (% total)	                              17	         18	        19
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                       4,213	      8,235	    10,486
Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
(metric tons) 	                                             2.3	        4.3	        5.3



PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
	                                                         1990	  CURRENT	           2015	               TREND +
MDG	                                                    BASELINE	DATAa	             GOAL	             2015 TARGET

MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population 	
below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)	                              57.0	         7.9	       28.5
 MDG 2.a Primary completion rate 	
 (% relevant age group)	                                    99	          105	        100	            Met at outset
MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary
and secondary education (%)	                                88	          100	        100	
 MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate 	
 (per 1,000 live births)	                                   45	           16	         15

MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)	                 59	           20	        20	

 MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio 	
 (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)	              170	           75	        43

MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water 	
(% population with access)	                                 68	           91	        84

 MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation 	
 facilities (% population with access)	                     30	           67	        65

Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2014; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
    = 2015 MDG target.


                                           	                                              THE REGIONS 	             37
Europe and Central Asia


      E
              conomic growth in Europe and Central Asia is stagnating this year, after
              growing just 1.8 percent in 2014. The direct and indirect impacts of lower oil
              prices are dampening growth in the economies of Eurasia, while countries
              in the Euro Area are seeing a modest recovery. Overall, economic growth in
      the region is expected to be a marginal 0.4 percent in 2015. Excluding the Russian
      Federation and Ukraine, the rest of the region is expected to grow by 2.6 percent.
          About 14 percent of the region’s population—more than 61 million people—live
      in poverty. Among them, about 14 million are extremely poor, as measured at the
      regional poverty line of $2.50 a day (actual and projected numbers as of September
      2014). The regional extreme poverty line is higher than the global extreme poverty
      line of $1.25 a day because the harsh climatic conditions and higher cost of sub-
      sistence in the region—including costs for heating, clothing, and shelter—make it
      almost impossible to survive on $1.25 a day.


      World Bank assistance
      The Bank approved $7.2 billion in lending to the region for 54 projects this fiscal
      year. Support included $6.7 billion in IBRD loans and $527 million in IDA commit-
      ments. The leading sectors were Energy and Mining ($1.4 billion); Transportation
      ($1.1 billion); and Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.1 billion).
          The Bank also signed 19 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with nine
      countries in the region for a total amount of $16 million. The agreements provide
      technical advice to health care and education systems reform, public sector gover-
      nance and institutional capacity building, investment climate reform, planning and
      management of infrastructure investments, and other issues.
          The Bank’s strategy for the region focuses on two main areas of intervention:
      competitiveness and shared prosperity through jobs, and environmental, social, and
      fiscal sustainability, including climate action. Governance and gender are thematic
      priorities under both areas.


      Increasing competitiveness and shared prosperity through jobs
      The Bank is supporting competitiveness and job creation in the region in many
      ways. It has increased access to finance for small and medium-size enterprises in
      Kazakhstan and Turkey; invested in information technology, roads, and other infra-
      structure in Albania, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Croatia, Georgia, Kosovo, the former Yugo-
      slav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, and Uzbekistan; strengthened financial sector
      regulations, the business environment, and policies conducive to growth, private




38	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015

 FYR MACEDONIA © Tomislav Georgiev/World Bank



sector competitiveness, and innovation in Armenia, Georgia, Kazakh-                      COUNTRIES
stan, Moldova, Poland, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkey, and Ukraine; and                      ELIGIBLE FOR
                                                                                         WORLD BANK
offered advice on trade and exports in Armenia and Turkey. The Bank
                                                                                         BORROWING*
is improving the reliability of the power supply in Albania, Armenia, the
                                                                                         Albania
Kyrgyz Republic, and Ukraine, and supporting gas sector development
                                                                                         Armenia
in Turkey. In the Kyrgyz Republic, Romania, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, it               Azerbaijan
is supporting job creation and diversification of the agriculture sector.                Belarus
    The Bank published several important reports on the region this                      Bosnia and
fiscal year. One of them—Turkey’s Transitions: Integration, Inclusion,                      Herzegovina
                                                                                         Bulgaria
Institutions—reveals how steady growth has brought broadly shared
                                                                                         Croatia
prosperity and doubled the size of the middle class. It identifies what                  Georgia
has worked well and what needs to change.                                                Kazakhstan
                                                                                         Kosovo
                                                                                         Kyrgyz Republic
Improving environmental, social, and fiscal sustainability
                                                                                         Former Yugoslav
                                                                                            Republic of
The Bank works with client countries in designing and implementing                          Macedonia
reforms to improve the efficiency and fiscal sustainability of their pen-                Moldova
sion, social protection, and health care systems. In Croatia and Ukraine,                Montenegro
it is supporting efforts to improve the efficiency and fiscal sustainability             Poland
of the safety net and pension systems. It is helping to improve health                   Romania
                                                                                         Russian Federation
care systems in Albania, Bulgaria, Tajikistan, and Ukraine and education
                                                                                         Serbia
systems in Romania. The Bank is supporting community-driven devel-                       Tajikistan
opment and social accountability in Armenia, Georgia, and the Kyrgyz                     Turkey
Republic. In Azerbaijan, Romania, and Tajikistan, it is helping govern-                  Turkmenistan
ments to improve economic opportunities and public services for dis-                     Ukraine
advantaged communities, including the Roma and unemployed youth.                         Uzbekistan
     Aging is a critical issue in the region and was the focus of two reports      *as of June 30, 2015
this fiscal year—Golden Aging: Prospects for Healthy, Active, and Pros-
perous Aging in Europe and Central Asia and What’s Next in Aging
Europe: Aging with Growth in Central Europe and the Baltics.
     Climate adaptation and energy efficiency remain strategic priorities for Europe
and Central Asia, the world’s most energy-intensive developing region. In Kosovo,
FYR Macedonia, and Ukraine, the Bank is working on policy reforms (such as
energy pricing) and investments in both public infrastructure and private indus-
try, including renewable energy and energy efficiency. In Bosnia and Herzegovina
and in Serbia, it is continuing to support recovery and protection following the
catastrophic floods of May 2014. In Belarus, the Bank is improving forest protec-
tion; and in Central Asia, it is helping countries to rehabilitate irrigation systems
and build capacity for improved water management, embrace climate-smart agri-
culture, and promote more-sustainable land and forest resource management.
     The Bank’s analytical and advisory assistance also focused on climate change.
This year’s Turn Down the Heat: Confronting the New Climate Normal is the third
in this annual series and includes Central Asia, Russia, and the Western Balkans.
The report warns that without action, the planet will continue to warm, and
extreme weather events could become the new climate normal, increasing risks
and instability.




TABLE 9  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2013–15
	                             COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                      DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
	                           FY13	 FY14	FY15	                               FY13	 FY14	 FY15
    IBRD	                  4,591	 4,729	6,679	                            3,583	 6,536a	5,829
    IDA	                    729	 798	527	                                  468	 519	 314
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2015: $26.2 billion.
a. Figure revised from Annual Report 2014 because of rounding.




                                        	                                        THE REGIONS 	            39
FIGURE 5  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.2 BILLION

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection             5%   2%               Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

                                                               5%                                Education
Transportation                            16%
                                                                    20%                 Energy and Mining
Public Administration,
Law, and Justice                   15%
                                                                    13%                            Finance
Information and Communications       <1%


Industry and Trade                              12%       13%              Health and Other Social Services




FIGURE 6  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.2 BILLION
Social Protection and
Risk Management                                    15%   9%                         Trade and Integration
Social Development,                                             3%                    Urban Development
Gender, and Inclusion                <1%
                                                                7%                 Economic Management
Rural Development                    5%                                          Environment and Natural
                                                                    5%            Resources Management
Rule of Law                          6%
Public Sector Governance             4%




                                                                                      Financial and Private
Human Development                             8%              36%                     Sector Development




Increasing access to secondary school through conditional cash transfers


L
       ike their schoolmates at the Boro Petrusevski Secondary Vocational School in FYR Macedonia,
       Kristina Donevska and Zulejla Abdulova work hard to get good grades. They come to school
       every day filled with hopes and dreams for the future. Unlike most of their schoolmates, just
being able to attend school is difficult for them because money at home is tight. Coming up with
the means to pay for textbooks and notebooks, clothes, and transportation has been challenging
for their families.
    But their families are not alone. An estimated 24 percent of FYR Macedonia’s population lives below
the absolute poverty line, unable to buy enough food or meet other basic needs. Despite economic
growth, the rate of poverty has not decreased since 2002.
    Thanks to a conditional cash transfer program supported by the World Bank since 2009, attending
school is now easier for poor people in FYR Macedonia. Under the program, the families of about 7,500
students throughout the country receive €200 a year as long as they keep their children in secondary
school. This relatively small stipend is allowing thousands of young Macedonians to stay in school.
    The Bank-supported program is critical because research shows that poverty in FYR Macedonia
is driven by unemployment. The national employment strategy diagnosed the lack of skills as a key
determinant of individual unemployment, noting that almost 70 percent of adults with no more than
a primary education are poor. The government acted quickly, recognizing that breaking the cycle of
poverty required increasing access to education.


                                          	                                 THE REGIONS 	             40
TABLE 10  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2008	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	                                246	        253	       264
Population growth (annual %)	                               0.3	        0.5	        0.7
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	                1,803	      5,425	     6,864
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           5.8	        2.7	        1.4
Population living on less than $1.25 a
  day (millions)	                                           18b	2	 2
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                  73	          75	        76
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    65	          67	        69
Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	                98	          —	         99
Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	                  99	          —	        100
Labor participation rate, females
(% population ages 15+)	                                    47	          44	        46
Labor participation rate, males
(% population ages 15+)	                                    69	          68	        69
Proportion of seats held by women in
national parliaments (% total)	                              7	          14	        19
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                       1,128	      1,370	     1,401
Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
(metric tons) 	                                             4.6	        5.4	        5.4



PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
	                                                         1990	  CURRENT	           2015	              TREND +
MDG	                                                    BASELINE	DATAa	             GOAL	            2015 TARGET

MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population 	
below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)	                              1.5	          0.5	        0.8
MDG 2.a Primary completion rate 	
(% relevant age group)	                                    96	           100	       100
MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary
and secondary education (%)	                               95	           98	        100	
MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate 	
(per 1,000 live births)	                                   44	           20	         15

MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)	                56	           23	         19	

MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio 	
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)	               62	           28	         16

MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water 	
(% population with access)	                                87	           95	         94

MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation 	
facilities (% population with access)	                     87	           94	         94

Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2014; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
    = 2015 MDG target.


                                           	                                              THE REGIONS 	             41
Latin America
and the Caribbean


      T
                 hanks to high commodity prices and pro-growth structural reforms, Latin
                 America enjoyed a decade of strong economic growth and significant
                 social progress. Over the past decade, annual economic growth among
                 the bottom 40 percent of the population averaged 5.2 percent, eclipsing
      the performance of that group in every other region in the world. In 201    1, for the
      first time ever, the region had a larger number of Latin Americans in the middle class
      than in poverty.
          Economic and social progress in the Caribbean has been more limited. The sub-
      region, highly dependent on external demand from rich nations and significantly
      vulnerable to natural disasters, has been growing at a much slower pace, and social
      gains in some countries have been flat. In an effort to bolster economic activity,
      the World Bank in June sponsored the third regional Caribbean Growth Forum, an
      initiative that engages government, private sector, and civil society in support of
      pro-growth reforms.
          As the global economic tailwinds die down, growth in Latin America and the
      Caribbean is expected to fall to about 0.4 percent in 2015. That average hides signifi-
      cant differences within the region because Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Panama,
      and Peru are expected to grow around 4 percent or higher. To protect the social
      gains accrued over the past decade, new strategies will have to be adopted to boost
      growth. Higher productivity will be needed to push average growth above 3 per-
      cent, which would enable the region to continue the path of prosperity experienced
      during the commodities boom.

      World Bank assistance
      The Bank approved $6.0 billion for 33 projects in the region this fiscal year. Support
      included $5.7 billion in IBRD loans and $315 million in IDA commitments. The lead-
      ing sectors were Health and Other Social Services ($1.6 billion); Public Administra-
      tion, Law, and Justice ($1.3 billion); and Education ($1.0 billion).
         The Bank tailors its diverse financial, knowledge, and convening services to the
      region’s pressing needs, which include raising productivity, increasing trade integra-
      tion, better managing disaster risk, and creating good-quality education and jobs. It
      addresses these needs through project financing; innovative mechanisms, such as
      the Climate Investment Funds; and in-depth reports, such as Great Teachers: How to
      Raise Student Learning in Latin America and the Caribbean and Latin America and
      the Rising South: Changing World, Changing Priorities.
         In the lead-up to the Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the Inter-
      national Monetary Fund in Lima, Peru, in October 2015, the Bank Group conducted
      a series of events under the “Road to Lima” rubric. These events promoted discus-
      sion of development challenges and solutions. They highlighted the contribution of
      Latin America and the Caribbean to the global development debate, in particular the

42	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015

 HAITI © Haiti Reconstruction Fund/World Bank



importance of middle-income countries for eliminating extreme pov-                           COUNTRIES
erty by 2030 and promoting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner.                        ELIGIBLE FOR
                                                                                             WORLD BANK
                                                                                             BORROWING*
Promoting shared prosperity
                                                                                             Antigua and
Latin America and the Caribbean scored impressive gains in recent years,                        Barbuda
                                                                                             Argentina
increasing the size of the middle class and reducing the ranks of the
                                                                                             Belize
poor. But inequality remains high, and poverty reduction may be stag-
                                                                                             Plurinational State
nating. Some 75 million people still live on less than $2.50 a day, and                         of Bolivia
nearly two-thirds of the region’s people are poor or vulnerable to falling                   Brazil
into poverty—a situation that slow growth could exacerbate.                                  Chile
    Assisting countries in continuing to address the inequality gap by                       Colombia
                                                                                             Costa Rica
     ing opportunities for all is at the top of the Bank’s regional agenda.
creat­
                                                                                             Dominica
In Ecuador, a Bank project that seeks to increase access to improved                         Dominican Republic
­
sanitation services and reduce wastewater pollution among vulnerable                         Ecuador
sectors in the city of Guayaquil will benefit nearly 1 million residents. In                 El Salvador
Brazil, a Bank-supported program will benefit 1 million Afro-descendants                     Grenada
or indigenous people through public service improvements.                                    Guatemala
                                                                                             Guyana
                                                                                             Haiti
Increasing productivity                                                                      Honduras
The region’s extraordinary recent growth and ability to weather the                          Jamaica
2008–09 global recession contrast with its lagging productivity. Bot-                        Mexico
                                                                                             Nicaragua
tlenecks include high-cost logistics, which are two to four times higher
                                                                                             Panama
than those of the world’s leaders; inadequate infrastructure; and                            Paraguay
low-quality education. Better education and health care are essential to                     Peru
increase human capital and boost productivity.                                               St. Kitts and Nevis
    In the Dominican Republic, the Bank seeks to assist nearly 1.3 million                   St. Lucia
people by improving access to a subsidized health care system and by                         St. Vincent and the
                                                                                                Grenadines
increasing the employability of some of the most vulnerable people,
                                                                                             Suriname
with a focus on young women and men. The Bank this year also sup-                            Trinidad and
ported reforms in Jamaica aimed at improving the investment climate,                            Tobago
competitiveness, and public financial management.                                            Uruguay
                                                                                             República
                                                                                                Bolivariana de
Making the state more efficient                                                                 Venezuela

Lack of access to quality public services provided by the state, including    *as of June 30, 2015

education and security, are frustrating the dreams and aspirations of the
poor and the middle class. Among the many projects that seek to help
governments build inclusive public services, the Bank is supporting Mexico’s new
social protection program, which aims to go beyond providing basic welfare to
opening productive options to beneficiaries.

Increasing disaster resilience and protecting the environment
Latin America and the Caribbean is home to 9 of the world’s top-20 countries
most susceptible to natural disasters, which cost regional governments about $2
billion a year. As a response, countries have become more disaster savvy and are
sharpening their focus on prevention. The Bank provides tools and mechanisms
to increase resilience, including cutting-edge instruments such as catastrophe
risk insurance. This year, it approved its largest-ever financing for Bolivia, to assist
the country with disaster risk management.


TABLE 11  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2013–15
	                             COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                          DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
	                           FY13	 FY14	FY15	                               FY13	 FY14	 FY15
    IBRD	                   4,769	 4,609	5,709	                           5,308	 5,662	 5,726
    IDA	                     435	 460	315	                                 273	 306	 383
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2015: $27.0 billion.


                                         	                                           THE REGIONS 	            43
FIGURE 7  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.0 BILLION

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection          7%    2%                  Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry


Transportation                            6%                 17%                                  Education


Public Administration,                                           5%                      Energy and Mining
Law, and Justice                   22%

                                                                      8%                            Finance

Information and Communications       <1%

Industry and Trade                          6%           26%               Health and Other Social Services




FIGURE 8  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.0 BILLION

Urban Development                           12%        2%                           Economic Management
                                                                                  Environment and Natural
Trade and Integration                     <1%                    2%                Resources Management
                                                                                      Financial and Private
                                                                 4%                    Sector Development

                                                                 18%                  Human Development
Social Protection and
Risk Management                    31%
                                                                  7%              Public Sector Governance

                                                                 5%                             Rule of Law



Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion        12%        5%                          Rural Development




Insuring against natural disaster risk in Central America and the Caribbean


N
        ine countries in Central America and the Caribbean experienced natural disasters with
        economic impact that exceeded 50 percent of annual GDP in the past three decades. The
        earthquake that hit Haiti in 2010 is estimated to have cost that country 120 percent of GDP.
Tropical Cyclone Agatha, which hit Guatemala the same year, increased poverty rates by 5.5 percent
and reduced primary school enrollments in rural areas by 4 percent.
    To address the problem, the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM) requested
assistance from the World Bank to create the world’s first pooling mechanism to help countries
access affordable insurance coverage against hurricanes, earthquakes, and excessive rainfall in
order to reduce their financial vulnerability. The initiative resulted in the creation of the Caribbean
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF), funded by donors including Canada and the United
States. In 2015, Nicaragua became the first Central American country to join the 16 original Caribbean
member countries. Other Central American countries are expected to join later this year and in 2016.
This partnership between Caribbean and Central American countries could strengthen economic
engagement throughout the Caribbean Basin.
    Since its inception in 2007, CCRIF has been able to provide insurance coverage at about half
of the cost of policies purchased individually. To date, CCRIF has made 12 payouts totaling $35.6
million to eight member governments.




                                          	  THE REGIONS 	
                                          	INTRODUCTION                                                44
TABLE 12  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2008	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	                                439	        487	       522
Population growth (annual %)	                               1.5	        1.2	        1.1
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	                3,606	      6,507	     9,051
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           3.0	        2.4	        0.6
Population living on less than $1.25 a
  day (millions)	                                           55b	31	28
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                   74	         77	        78
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    68	          70	        72
Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	                97	          —	         98
Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	                  96	          —	         98
Labor participation rate, females
(% population ages 15+)	                                    49	          53	        55
Labor participation rate, males
(% population ages 15+)	                                    82	          81	        80
Proportion of seats held by women in
national parliaments (% total)	                              15	         22	        29
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                        932	       1,135	     1,210
Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
(metric tons) 	                                             2.1	        2.3	        2.4



PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
	                                                         1990	  CURRENT	           2015	              TREND +
MDG	                                                    BASELINE	DATAa	             GOAL	            2015 TARGET

MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population 	
below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)	                             12.6	          4.6	        6.3
MDG 2.a Primary completion rate 	
(% relevant age group)	                                    89	           101	       100
MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary
and secondary education (%)	                               102	          102	       100	            Met at outset
MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate 	
(per 1,000 live births)	                                   44	           16	         15

MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)	                55	           18	         18	

MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio 	
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)	               150	          87	         38

MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water 	
(% population with access)	                                84	           93	         92

MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation 	
facilities (% population with access)	                     64	           80	         82

Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2014; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
    = 2015 MDG target.


                                           	                                              THE REGIONS 	             45
Middle East and
North Africa


      T
                 he Middle East and North Africa remains a region in transition. Tunisia and
                 the Arab Republic of Egypt appear to be consolidating more-stable political
                 environments, but the situation in the Republic of Yemen has deteriorated
                 sharply. Violence continues in Iraq, Libya, the Syrian Arab Republic, and
      Yemen; and Iraq, Jordan, and Lebanon are grappling with large numbers of refugees.
      The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, Jordan, and Morocco remain stable.
          As a result of conflict and instability, low oil prices, and the slow pace of reforms,
      growth in the region is expected to slow to 3.1–3.3 percent in 2015 and 2016. Rates
      will vary markedly across the region, however. The GCC countries are projected to
      grow 3.2–3.8 percent in 2015, while growth in the region’s developing countries will
      be just 2 percent. In Algeria and Iraq, output is expected to rise by only 0.9 percent,
      and in the Islamic Republic of Iran, by just 0.6 percent.
          Extreme poverty in the region remains low at 2.6 percent. Vulnerability to poverty
      is very high, however, with 53 percent of the population living on $4.00 or less a day.


      World Bank assistance
      The Bank approved $3.5 billion for the region for 17 projects this fiscal year, includ-
      ing $3.3 billion in IBRD loans and $198 million in IDA commitments. It also commit-
      ted $75 million in special financing for six projects in the West Bank and Gaza. The
      top-three sectors were Energy and Mining ($1.0 billion); Water, Sanitation, and Flood
      Protection ($61 1 million); and Health and Other Social Services ($600 million).
          The Bank delivered 122 economic and sector work products and nonlending
      technical assistance in fiscal 2015. A path-breaking report examined how the region’s
      lack of a level playing field and state capture impedes job creation. Another study
      identified the structural weaknesses of exporting firms and proposed suggestions
      for policy reforms that would boost growth and employment. The region’s Reim-
      bursable Advisory Services program provided more than $30 million of analytical
      and advisory services to governments. The Bank proposed ways of enhancing the
      efficiency and effectiveness of health care and educational systems; improving gov-
      ernance, including the recommendation of stronger public financial management;
      creating jobs; diversifying the economy, including the development of small and
      medium-size enterprises; and increasing energy efficiency.
          The Bank’s framework for engagement continues to be based on governance,
      inclusion, jobs, and sustainable growth, as well as on the cross-cutting issues of
      regional and global integration, gender, and private sector development. To max-
      imize its impact, the Bank is rethinking its strategy, with a focus on securing peace




46	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015

 MOROCCO © Arne Hoel/World Bank



and stability. The new strategy will step up the Bank’s engagement in                        COUNTRIES
order to achieve shared growth and prosperity. The Bank will work with                       ELIGIBLE FOR
                                                                                             WORLD BANK
partners to pave the way for lasting economic and social development
                                                                                             BORROWING*
in the region—a global public good given the international implications
                                                                                             Algeria
of disarray and continued violence.
                                                                                             Djibouti
                                                                                             Arab Republic of
                                                                                                 Egypt
Strengthening governance
                                                                                             Islamic Republic of
                                                                                                 Iran
The Bank continued to build on the emphasis on governance that
                                                                                             Iraq
began in the wake of the Arab Spring. It approved a $300 million loan                        Jordan
to Tunisia for urban development and local governance and a $1 million                       Lebanon
project in Tunisia on social accountability.                                                 Libya
                                                                                             Morocco
                                                                                             Tunisia
Increasing social and economic inclusion                                                     Republic of Yemen

Increasing social and economic inclusion in the region is key to secur-     This section also
ing stability and peace. To improve inclusion, the Bank approved two        reports on the
                                                                            West Bank and
large loans to Egypt, a $500 million loan to build inclusive housing and    Gaza.
a $400 million loan to strengthen social safety nets. A $100 million
project in Morocco will strengthen health care delivery. A $50 million      *as of June 30, 2015

labor-intensive public works project in Yemen focuses on temporary
jobs for the most vulnerable. Other interventions included $90 million
in emergency support to social protection in Yemen and $5 million in additional
financing for social safety nets in Djibouti.


Creating jobs
The Bank lent $200 million to Morocco to increase competitiveness and growth
and $100 million to help ensure more and better jobs for university graduates by
aligning their skills with market needs. It lent $50 million to Jordan to help spur
the growth of micro, small, and medium-size enterprises, the largest segment of
the private sector there.


Accelerating sustainable growth
To spur sustainable growth, the Bank lent Egypt $500 million to increase access
to reliable, lower-cost, grid-connected natural gas. In Lebanon, a $474 million
water supply augmentation project will increase the volume of water available to
the Greater Beirut and Mount Lebanon areas. A $400 million loan for the Noor
Ouarzazate Concentrated Solar Power Project will increase Morocco’s capacity
and output from renewables and provide sustainable energy exports to Europe.
A $130 million loan will support the Moroccan government’s efforts to improve
the economic, environmental, and social performance of the municipal solid
waste sector, and a $125 million clean and efficient energy project will promote
private sector participation and efficient solar energy.




TABLE 13  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2013–15
	                             COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                          DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
	                           FY13	 FY14	FY15	                               FY13	 FY14	 FY15
    IBRD	                   1,809	 2,588	3,294	                           1,786	 1,666	 1,779
    IDA	                     249	 199	198	                                 200	 273	 194
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2015: $11.7 billion.




                                         	                                           THE REGIONS 	            47
FIGURE 9  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $3.5 BILLION

                                                                                        Water, Sanitation, and
Transportation                              <1%        17%                                    Flood Protection
                                                                    0%
                                                                    0        Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry
Public Administration,
Law, and Justice                       2%
                                      12%
                                                                   2%                               Education
Information and Communications      0%
                                                                    2
                                                                    29%                    Energy and Mining
Industry and Trade                  6%




Health and Other Social Services         17%               16%                                        Finance




FIGURE 10  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $3.5 BILLION

Urban Development                           27%        <1%                           Economic Management


                                                                                    Environment and Natural
                                                                  22%                Resources Management



                                                                                         Financial and Private
Trade and Integration               4%                              17%                  Sector Development

Social Protection and
Risk Management                     12%                           4%                    Human Development
                                                                 1%                Public Sector Governance
                                                           0%                                    Rule of Law
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion      10%        1%                              Rural Development




Rapidly responding to the crisis in Gaza


T
        he July and August 2014 armed conflict in Gaza had devastating impacts on the population
        and infrastructure. More than 2,000 people died, more than 11,000 people were wounded,
        and about half a million people—almost a third of Gaza’s total population—were displaced.
The conflict also caused an estimated $2.8 billion in damages, devastating much of the area’s
infrastructure and economy, which during 2014, shrank by 15 percent in real terms. The total cost
of recovery and reconstruction activities in Gaza has been estimated at $3.9 billion.
    Following the crisis, the Palestinian Authority asked the World Bank to conduct damage assessments
in the water and sanitation, energy, and municipal development sectors. By late August, almost
immediately after hostilities ceased, the Bank had teams in place and redirected its planned pipeline
of grants toward Gaza’s reconstruction. By October, the Board of Executive Directors had approved
four grants, involving the restructuring of existing projects, in record time; in January 2015, it approved
a fifth grant.
    Support included $41 million in emergency budget support; $15 million in emergency support for
rehabilitating the electricity network; $3 million in emergency additional financing for the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of damaged water and wastewater systems; $3 million in emergency support for
the restoration of priority municipal services; and $8.5 million for strengthening health care system
resiliency.
    The Bank’s quick response galvanized other donors, with five new donors coming on board to
channel their funds using the Bank program.

                                       	  THE REGIONS 	
                                       	INTRODUCTION                                                     48
TABLE 14  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2008	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	                                277	        317	       351
Population growth (annual %)	                               1.8	        1.8	        1.7
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	                1,494	      3,197	     4,460
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           1.7	        2.0	       –1.7
Population living on less than $1.25 a
  day (millions)	                                           13b	7	 6
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                   71	         73	        74
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    67	          69	        69
Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	                80	          —	         88
Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	                  90	          —	         94
Labor participation rate, females
(% population ages 15+)	                                    18	          19	        20
Labor participation rate, males
(% population ages 15+)	                                     74	         72	        73
Proportion of seats held by women in
national parliaments (% total)	                              4	          9	         17
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                        873	       1,212	       131
Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
(metric tons) 	                                             3.2	        3.8	        3.9



PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
	                                                         1990	  CURRENT	           2015	              TREND +
MDG	                                                    BASELINE	DATAa	             GOAL	            2015 TARGET

MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population 	
below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)	                              5.8	          1.7	        2.9
MDG 2.a Primary completion rate 	
(% relevant age group)	                                    76	           93	        100
MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary
and secondary education (%)	                               80	           94	        100	
MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate 	
(per 1,000 live births)	                                   52	           21	         17

MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)	                67	           26	         22	

MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio 	
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)	               160	          78	         40

MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water 	
(% population with access)	                                87	           90	         93

MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation 	
facilities (% population with access)	                     70	           88	         85

Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2014; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
    = 2015 MDG target.


                                           	                                              THE REGIONS 	             49
South Asia


      E
              conomic growth in South Asia is the fastest in the world. Already-rapid growth
              of 6.9 percent in 2014 is projected to accelerate to 7.1 percent in 2015, driven
              by strong expansion in India and low oil prices.
                 Poverty in the region remains very high. About 399 million people—40
      percent of the world’s poor—live on less than $1.25 a day. More than 200 million
      people live in slums, and half a billion people go without electricity. Many countries
      in the region suffer from extreme forms of social exclusion and huge infrastructure
      gaps, and the larger countries are experiencing increases in inequality. Development
      in the region will be key to meeting global poverty and prosperity goals.


      World Bank assistance
      The Bank approved $7.9 billion for the region for 38 projects this fiscal year. Support
      included $2.1 billion in IBRD loans and $5.8 billion in IDA commitments. The leading
      sectors were Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection ($1.4 billion); Transportation
      ($1.3 billion); and Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.2 billion).
         To unleash the region’s development potential, the Bank’s strategy for South Asia
      focuses on regional integration, growth, social inclusion, and climate and environ-
      mental management, along with the cross-cutting themes of improved governance
      and gender equality.


      Enhancing regional integration
      South Asia is one of the most dynamic regions in the world, but it is also one of
      the least economically integrated. Intraregional trade accounts for just 5 percent of
      total trade, compared to 25 percent in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
      (ASEAN). Given the shared history and culture of many of the region’s countries, the
      potential for economic integration is great.
          The Bank’s South Asia regional integration program manages a portfolio of $910
      million in energy, trade and transport, and wildlife conservation. Its signature project is
      the Central Asia–South Asia Electricity Transmission and Trade Project, which plans to
      bring surplus hydroelectric energy from the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan to energy-
      starved Afghanistan and Pakistan. Also advancing the regional integration agenda is
      the Mizoram State Roads II–Regional Transport Connectivity Project, which will improve
      road links between the state of Mizoram, India, and Bangladesh and Myanmar.


      Spurring growth and reducing poverty
      Infrastructure gaps in South Asia stymy growth and entrench poverty. To help the
      region bridge these gaps, the government of India and the Bank signed a $1.1 bil-


50	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015

 INDIA © Michael Foley/World Bank



lion agreement this fiscal year on a second loan for the Eastern Dedi-         COUNTRIES
cated Freight Corridor, a freight-only rail line. The project will increase    ELIGIBLE FOR
                                                                               WORLD BANK
the speed and efficiency with which raw materials and finished goods
                                                                               BORROWING*
move between northern and eastern India.
                                                                               Afghanistan
    A $500 million second single-tranche credit was approved to sup-
                                                                               Bangladesh
port the government of Pakistan’s growth-oriented reform program.              Bhutan
This development policy credit will be structured around two main pil-         India
lars: to foster private and financial sector development and to mobilize       Maldives
revenue and expand priority social spending. The Bank also approved            Nepal
$50 million to improve skills training programs in priority growth sec-        Pakistan
                                                                               Sri Lanka
tors in Pakistan’s Punjab. The project aims to improve the quality and
labor market relevance of training programs, as well as access to train-       *as of June 30, 2015

ing, with a focus on employability. An estimated 70,000 trainees will
directly benefit from the project, of which at least 15 percent will be
women.
    This fiscal year, Bank support to Bangladesh included the approval of $1.1 billion
for three projects: $400 million in additional financing for the Third Primary Edu-
cation Development Program, $375 million for the Multipurpose Disaster Shelter
Project, and $300 million for the Income Support Program for the Poorest Project.
The projects will benefit almost 36 million people by improving the quality of pri-
mary education, building coastal communities’ resilience to natural disasters, and
increasing the nutrition and cognitive development of children from the poorest
households.


Coping with natural disasters
The World Bank responded swiftly to the earthquakes in Nepal in April and May this
year, which killed and injured thousands of people and destroyed and caused mas-
sive damage to homes, government buildings, and cultural sites. The Bank’s support
included participation in a loss-and-damage assessment and the approval of $100
million in budget support and to strengthen the financial sector. Further, additional
assistance for housing reconstruction is being processed, and reconstruction efforts
in other sectors are being provided through the mobilization of projects already on
the ground.


Sharing knowledge, delivering solutions
The Bank published two important reports this fiscal year, Addressing Inequality in
South Asia, which shows that monetary inequality is increasing across most of the
region; and Violence against Women and Girls: Lessons from South Asia, which
documents violence throughout the life cycle, from early childhood to old age. This
year’s South Asia Economic Focus, Spring 2015: Making the Most of Cheap Oil, a
biannual economic update, looks at export opportunities and the opportunities
created by low oil prices. The Bank also prepared policy notes for the government
of Nepal that lay out a strategic vision for development based on the three “I”s for
growth (investment, infrastructure, and inclusion).




TABLE 15  SOUTH ASIA
REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2013–15
	                             COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	                      DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
	                           FY13	 FY14	FY15	                               FY13	 FY14	 FY15
    IBRD	                   378	 2,077	2,098	                             1,103	 1,165	 1,266
    IDA	                   4,096	 8,458	5,762	                            2,724	 4,271	 3,919
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2015: $43.5 billion.




                                         	                                       THE REGIONS 	            51
FIGURE 11  SOUTH ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.9 BILLION

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection   17%           11%               Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry




                                                                15%                              Education
Transportation                     16%
                                                                   3%                   Energy and Mining

                                                                 12%                               Finance
Public Administration,
Law, and Justice                          15%                 6%          Health and Other Social Services

Information and Communications                   <1%    3%                              Industry and Trade




FIGURE 12  SOUTH ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2015
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.9 BILLION

Urban Development                                8%    <1%                         Economic Management

Trade and Integation                        2%                                   Environment and Natural
                                                                6%                Resources Management


Social Protection and                                                                 Financial and Private
Risk Management                    20%                           26%                  Sector Development

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion                3%
                                                               16%                   Human Development
Rural Development                     15%

Rule of Law                                      1%    4%                        Public Sector Governance




Making the World Bank Group’s activities in India more transparent


I
  ndia is poised to lift millions of people out of poverty in the coming years. The magnitude of
  the challenge requires ambitious efforts from both the government and the World Bank Group,
  as reflected in the Country Partnership Strategy for India for 2013–17. The Open India app is a
digital and live manifestation of this strategy that lets citizens explore the Bank Group’s work in
India, track its progress, and provide their feedback through an intuitive interface.
    This first-of-its-kind app connects the dots between every World Bank and IFC activity in India,
within the context of the development challenges that the country faces. It tracks the results achieved
against the strategy’s targets, and reports the progress against the development objectives of the
ongoing Bank projects in the country. It also provides easy access to the Bank’s knowledge and
research across various sectors in India, and offers 100+ development indicators for states in which
the Bank works.
    A part of the Bank’s Open Data initiative, the app leverages and shares data to make the Bank
Group’s work in India more transparent and accountable. Open India 2.0, released in May 2015,
enables citizens to engage with the World Bank Group in India, send their questions or comments
for any Bank Group activity, and easily access associated grievance mechanisms. It represents the
next step toward greater citizen engagement and enhances the transparency of results on the
ground through open data.




                                          	  THE REGIONS 	
                                          	INTRODUCTION                                               52
TABLE 16  SOUTH ASIA
REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
			CURRENT
INDICATOR	 2000	 2008	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	                               1,382	      1,564	     1,692
Population growth (annual %)	                               1.8	        1.4	        1.3
GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	                 452	        991	      1,527
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	                           2.3	        2.5	        5.8
Population living on less than $1.25 a
  day (millions)	                                          617b	 540	399
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	                  64	          67	        69
Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	                    62	          64	        65
Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	                64	          —	         73
Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	                  80	          —	         86
Labor participation rate, females
(% population ages 15+)	                                    35	          34	        31
Labor participation rate, males
(% population ages 15+)	                                    83	          82	        81
Proportion of seats held by women in
national parliaments (% total)	                              8	          18	        19
Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	                       1,336	      2,023	     2,328
Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
(metric tons) 	                                             1.0	        1.3	        1.4



PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs)
	                                                         1990	  CURRENT	           2015	              TREND +
MDG	                                                    BASELINE	DATAa	             GOAL	            2015 TARGET

MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population 	
below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)	                             54.1	         24.5	       27.0
MDG 2.a Primary completion rate 	
(% relevant age group)	                                    64	           91	        100
MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary
and secondary education (%)	                               68	           97	        100	
MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate 	
(per 1,000 live births)	                                   92	           45	         31

MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)	                129	          57	         43	

MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio 	
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)	               550	          190	       138

MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water 	
(% population with access)	                                71	           91	         86

MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation 	
facilities (% population with access)	                     21	           40	         60

Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2010 and 2014; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
    = 2015 MDG target.


                                           	                                              THE REGIONS 	             53
The Roles and Resources of IBRD and IDA


      The role of IBRD
      The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is a global devel-
      opment cooperative owned by its 188 member countries. As the largest development
      bank in the world and part of the World Bank Group, IBRD has two main goals: to end
      extreme poverty by 2030 and to promote shared prosperity in a sustainable manner.
      It seeks to achieve these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees, risk manage-
      ment products, and expertise on development-related disciplines, as well as by coor-
      dinating responses to regional and global challenges. (See worldbank.org/ibrd.)


      IBRD financial commitments and services
      New lending commitments by IBRD were $23.5 billion in fiscal 2015 for 1        12 opera-
      tions. This volume was higher than the precrisis historical average ($13.5 billion a
      year in fiscal 2005–08) and the $18.6 billion in fiscal 2014. Europe and Central Asia
      ($6.7 billion) and Latin America and the Caribbean ($5.7 billion) received the largest
      shares of new lending, followed by East Asia and Pacific ($4.5 billion). Commitments
      to the Middle East and North Africa ($3.3 billion), South Asia ($2.1 billion), and Africa
      ($1.2 billion) followed. Public Administration, Law, and Justice received the largest
      sector commitments ($4.3 billion), followed by Finance ($3.4 billion) and Energy and
      Mining ($3.2 billion). By theme, Financial and Private Sector Development received
      the largest share of commitments (26 percent), followed by Urban Development (15
      percent) and Social Protection and Risk Management (14 percent).
          IBRD also offers financial products that allow clients to efficiently fund their
      development programs and manage risks related to currency, interest rates, com-
      modity prices, and disasters. In fiscal 2015, the Bank’s Treasury executed U.S.
      dollar equivalent (USDeq) 3.3 billion in hedging transactions, including USDeq 2.0
      billion in interest rate conversions and USDeq 1.2 billion in currency conversions,
      to assist borrowers in managing interest rate and currency risks over the life of
      their IBRD loans. Disaster risk management transactions included a $43 million
      transaction to renew coverage of the Pacific Disaster Insurance Program, which
      provides protection against earthquakes, tsunamis, and tropical cyclones to the
      Cook Islands, the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Tonga, and Vanuatu on behalf of the
      International Development Association (IDA). In addition, the Bank’s Treasury exe-
      cuted swap transactions totaling USDeq 24 billion to manage the risks of IBRD’s
      balance sheet and USDeq 727 million to manage the risks of IDA’s balance sheet.
      (See treasury.worldbank.org/bdm/htm/risk_financing.html.)


      IBRD resources
      IBRD issues bonds in international capital markets to support sustainable develop-
      ment. It uses its resources to reduce poverty and make growth inclusive by pro­
      viding loans, guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to
      middle-income countries and creditworthy low-income countries. In fiscal 2015,
      IBRD raised USDeq 57.7 billion by issuing bonds in 21 currencies. Its standing in the
      capital markets and its financial strength allowed IBRD to borrow these large vol-
      umes on very favorable terms despite volatile market conditions.
         IBRD’s financial strength is based on its robust capital position and shareholder
      support, as well as on its prudent financial policies and practices, which help to

54	   THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
FIGURE 13 IBRD RATIO OF EQUITY TO LOANS
          40


               28.6
          30                    27.0               26.8
                                                                      25.7
                                                                                        25.1
Percent




          20



          10



          0
               FY11             FY12               FY13               FY14              FY15




maintain its triple-A credit rating. IBRD’s equity comprises primarily paid-in capital
and reserves. Under the terms of the general and selective capital increase resolu-
tions approved by the Board of Governors on March 16, 201        1, subscribed capital is
expected to increase by $87.0 billion, of which $5.1 billion will be paid in over a six-
year period. The payment period was extended by a year following the approval of
extension requests by shareholders for the selective capital increase payment period
by the Board of Executive Directors. As of June 30, 2015, the cumulative increase in
subscribed capital totaled $62.7 billion. Related paid-in amounts in connection with
the capital increase were $3.7 billion.
    As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn
enough income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activi-
ties. Of fiscal 2015 allocable net income, the Board of Executive Directors recom-
mended to the Board of Governors the transfer of $650 million to IDA and the
allocation of $36 million to General Reserve.
    Consistent with IBRD’s development mandate, the principal financial risk it takes
is the country credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. One sum-
mary measure of IBRD’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is closely
managed in line with its financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 25.1 percent
as of June 30, 2015.
    As one of the pioneers of the green bond market and one of the largest
issuers of green bonds, IBRD has raised, as of June 30, 2015, USDeq more than 8.4
billion in 100 green bond transactions denominated in 18 currencies since its first
green bond was issued in 2008. World Bank Green Bonds support lending to eligi-
ble development programs that are designed to address the challenges of climate
change, including mitigation projects and programs as well as activities that help
countries to adapt to the effects of climate change and build climate resilience. (See
treasury.worldbank.org/cmd/htm/WorldBankGreenBonds.html.)


The role of IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) is the largest multilateral source of
concessional financing and the main instrument for pursuing the World Bank
Group’s goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity in a sus-
tainable manner in the world’s poorest countries. IDA’s funding supports countries’
efforts to increase economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve the living condi-
tions of the poor. In fiscal 2015, 77 countries were eligible to receive IDA assistance.
(This number excludes India, which graduated from IDA at the end of fiscal 2014 but
will receive transitional support on an exceptional basis through the IDA17 period.)
(See worldbank.org/ida.)


IDA financial commitments
IDA commitments amounted to $19.0 billion in fiscal 2015, including $15.9 billion in
credits, $2.4 billion in grants, and $600 million in guarantees. The largest share of
resources was committed to Africa, which received $10.4 billion. South Asia ($5.8
billion) and East Asia and Pacific ($1.8 billion) also received large shares of commit-

                                       	                  THE ROLES OF IBRD AND IDA 	          55
FIGURE 14  IDA REPLENISHMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
                                                                   26.4                                         26.1
                          25.1



                                             14.6                                       14.9


    6.3            6.3
                                                             5.3                                         4.5
            3.9                                       3.0                                        3.2                       3.5
                                 n.a.                                     n.a.

             IDA15 FY09–11                             IDA16 FY12–14                               IDA17 FY15–17

                  IDA internal resourcesa                              Donor contributionsb
                  IBRD and IFC transfers                               Concessional partner loans (net of grant element)
                  Donor compensation for MDRI debt forgiveness

Note: n.a. = not applicable. Data reflect final agreed replenishment reports and exchange rates used during the replenishment
discussions.
a. IDA internal resources include principal repayments, charges, and investment income.
b. Net of structural financing gap.




              ted funding, followed by Europe and Central Asia ($527 million), Latin America and
              the Caribbean ($315 million), and the Middle East and North Africa ($198 million).
              Bangladesh ($1.9 billion) and India ($1.7 billion) were the largest country recipients.
                 Commitments for infrastructure—including Energy and Mining; Transportation;
              Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection; and Information and Communications—
              reached $5.8 billion. Significant support was also committed to the sectors of Public
              Administration, Law, and Justice ($3.9 billion) and Health and Other Social Services
              ($3.7 billion). The themes receiving the highest share of commitments were Human
              Development ($4.1 billion), Rural Development ($3.3 billion), and Social Protection
              and Risk Management ($3.2 billion).


              IDA resources
              IDA is financed largely by contributions from partner governments. Additional
              financing comes from transfers from IBRD’s net income, grants from the Interna-
              tional Finance Corporation (IFC), and borrowers’ repayments of earlier IDA credits.
              Every three years, contributing partners and representatives of borrower countries
              meet to agree on IDA’s strategic direction, priorities, and financing for the subse-
              quent three-year implementation period.
                    Under the IDA17 Replenishment, which covers fiscal 2015–17, total resources
              amount to 33.7 billion in Special Drawing Rights (SDR) (equivalent to $50.8 billion).
              This figure reflects updates made after the replenishment discussions, the transfers
              from IDA17 internal resources to bridge the IDA16 funding gap, and foreign cur-
              rency hedging program. (IDA’s commitment authority is denominated in SDRs. The
              U.S. dollar equivalents are based on the reference exchange rate for IDA17. The
              amounts are provided for illustrative purposes only.) Fifty partners, four of which are
              new contributing partners, are providing SDR 17.2 billion (equivalent to $26.0 bil-
              lion) in grants, of which SDR 0.7 billion (equivalent to $1.1 billion) is the grant ele-
              ment from concessional partner loan contributions. Partners are providing SDR 2.9
              billion (equivalent to $4.4 billion) in concessional partner loans or SDR 2.2 billion
              (equivalent to $3.3 billion) excluding the grant element of the loans. Contributing
              partners are also expected to provide SDR 3.0 billion (equivalent to $4.5 billion) in
              compensation for debt relief under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative. Credit
              reflows from IDA recipients are providing SDR 9.2 billion (equivalent to $13.9 bil-
              lion). This figure includes SDR 0.8 billion (equivalent to $1.2 billion) from the hard-
              ening of lending terms of IDA-only client countries with low and moderate levels of
              debt distress, SDR 1.9 billion (equivalent to $2.8 billion) from contractual accelerated
              repayments of outstanding credits from IDA graduates and voluntary prepayments,
              and SDR 0.9 billion (equivalent to $1.4 billion) of balances carried forward from prior
              replenishments. Contributions from World Bank Group resources, through transfers




56	           THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
from IBRD and IFC, including associated investment income, amount to SDR 2.1
billion (equivalent to $3.1 billion). Such transfers are approved annually by the IBRD’s
Board of Governors and the IFC’s Board of Directors, based on evaluations of the
institutions’ annual results and financial capacities.
    IDA17 effectiveness was achieved on November 5, 2014, when 60 percent of the
partner Instruments of Commitment (IoCs) and concessional loan agreements were
received. As of June 30, 2015, 41 partners had submitted IDA17 IoCs and conces-
sional loan agreements. Partner contributions in the amount of SDR 5.4 billion
(equivalent to $8.2 billion) were released and made available for commitments.
    Anchored in the World Bank Group Strategy, the ambitious IDA17 policy package
includes a range of policy commitments and performance indicators under IDA’s
four-tier Results Measurement System. The IDA17 overarching theme of maximizing
development impact focuses on helping IDA countries better leverage private
resources, public resources, and knowledge, with greater emphasis on both results
and cost-effectiveness. The four IDA17 special themes—inclusive growth, gender
equality, climate change, and fragile and conflict-affected states—aim to strengthen
IDA’s engagement on frontier issues at the global, regional, and country levels. 




IBRD and IDA: Fiscal 2015 facts and figures

TABLE 17  TOP-10 COUNTRY BORROWERS
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

IBRD		IDA	
COUNTRY	                 COMMITMENT	COUNTRY	                            COMMITMENT

India	                          2,098	Bangladesh	                              1,924
China	                          1,822	India	                                   1,687
Colombia	                       1,400	Ethiopia	                                1,395
Egypt, Arab Rep.	               1,400	 Pakistan	                               1,351
Ukraine	                        1,345	Kenya	                                   1,305
Argentina	                      1,337	Nigeria	                                   975
Turkey	                         1,150	Tanzania	                                  883
Morocco	                        1,055	Vietnam	                                   784
Indonesia	                      1,000	Myanmar	                                   700
Poland	                           966	Ghana	                                     680
Note: Amounts for multicountry operations are allocated across borrowers.



TABLE 18  ACTIVE PORTFOLIO NET COMMITMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, AS OF JUNE 30, 2015
REGION	                                        IBRD	             IDA	TOTAL

Africa	                                         5.1	 46.9	52.0
East Asia and Pacific	                         22.6	  9.0	 31.6
Europe and Central Asia	                       23.8	  2.4	 26.2
Latin America and the Caribbean	               25.0	  2.0	 27.0
Middle East and North Africa	                  10.6	  1.1	 11.7
South Asia	                                    15.4	 28.0	 43.5
Total	                                       102.5	             89.5	191.9




                                    	                   THE ROLES OF IBRD AND IDA 	        57
Operational Summary


TABLE 19  OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: FISCAL 2011–15
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

IBRD	                                            FY11	 FY12	FY13	FY14	 FY15

Commitments	                                   26,737	 20,582	15,249	18,604	23,528
  Of which development policy lending	          9,524	 10,333	  7,080	  7,997	   7,207
Gross disbursements	                           21,879	 19,777	 16,030a	18,761	 19,012
  Of which development policy lending	         10,582	  9,052	  5,972	  9,786	   8,935
Principal repayment (including prepayment)	    13,885	  11,970	 9,470	  9,805	   9,005
Net disbursements	                              7,994	   7,806	 6,361	  8,956	 10,007
Loans outstanding	                            132,459	136,325	143,776	154,021	 157,012
Undisbursed loans	                             64,435	 62,916	 61,306	 58,449	  60,211
Allocable income	                                996	998	968	769	686
Usable equity	                                38,689	 37,636	 39,711	 40,467	 40,195
Equity-to-loans ratio	                        28.6%	  27.0%	 26.8%	 25.7%	    25.1%


IDA	                                             FY11	 FY12	FY13	FY14	 FY15

Commitments	                                   16,269	 14,753	16,298	22,239	 18,966
  Of which development policy lending	          2,032	    1,827	  1,954	   2,489	   2,597
Gross disbursements	                           10,282	  1 1,061	 11,228	 13,432	 12,905
  Of which development policy lending	          1,944	   2,092	   1,662	   2,644	   2,005
Principal repayment (including prepayment)	     2,501	   4,023	   3,845	   3,636	   4,085
Net disbursements	                               7,781	   7,037	  7,371	   9,878	   8,820
Credits outstanding	                          125,287	 123,576	 125,135	 136,011	 130,878
Undisbursed credits	                           38,059	   37,144	 39,765	 46,844	 47,288
Undisbursed grants	                             6,830	    6,161	  6,436	   6,983	   6,637
Development grant expenses	                     2,793	   2,062	   2,380	   2,645	   2,319
a. Figure revised from past Annual Reports.




58	        THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
World Bank Lending by
Theme and Sector

TABLE 20  WORLD BANK LENDING BY THEME AND SECTOR: FISCAL 2011–15
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS					

THEME	                                            FY11	 FY12	FY13	FY14	 FY15

Economic Management	                              655	1,293	484	955	1,145
Environment and Natural Resources
  Management	                                   6,102	 3,997	2,470	3,883	 3,164
Financial and Private Sector Development	       7,981	 4,743	  4,380	 8,028	 8,479
Human Development	                              4,228	 4,961	  4,348	 5,192	 6,043
Public Sector Governance	                       4,518	 4,035	  3,790	 5,252	 2,833
Rule of Law	                                      169	   126	    590	   291	   825
Rural Development	                              5,636	 5,443	  4,651	 6,437	 5,082
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion	        908	 1,247	  1,310	 1,064	 1,736
Social Protection and Risk Management	          5,691	 3,502	  3,956	 3,585	 6,577
Trade and Integration	                          2,604	 1,872	  2,707	 1,643	 1,727
Urban Development	                              4,514	  4,118	 2,861	 4,511	 4,865
Theme Total	                                   43,006	     35,335	   31,547	   40,843	   42,495



SECTOR	                                           FY11	 FY12	FY13	FY14	 FY15

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	             2,128	 3,134	  2,112	 3,059	 3,027
Education	                                      1,733	2,959	 2,731	3,457	3,534
Energy and Mining	                              5,807	 5,000	 3,280	  6,689	 4,510
Finance	                                          897	 1,764	2,055	1,984	 4,054
Health and Other Social Services	               6,707	 4,190	 4,363	  3,353	 6,647
Industry and Trade	                             2,167	 1,352	 1,432	  1,807	 2,311
Information and Communications	                   640	   158	   228	    381	   322
Public Administration, Law, and Justice	        9,673	 8,728	 7,991	  8,837	 8,180
Transportation	                                 8,683	4,445	 5,135	6,946	 5,151
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection	        4,617	 3,605	 2,220	  4,332	 4,760
Sector Total	                                  43,006	     35,335	   31,547	   40,843	   42,495

   Of which IBRD	                              26,737	     20,582	   15,249	   18,604	   23,528
   Of which IDA	                               16,269	     14,753	   16,298	   22,239	   18,966
Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.




                              OPERATIONAL SUMMARY AND WORLD BANK LENDING 	                   59
Committed to Results




T
          he World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by
          providing financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private
          sectors. Delivering integrated solutions to help countries address their development
          challenges requires a focus on results. In recent years, the World Bank has made
important contributions across many areas to support development results by its partner
countries, as shown in these selected examples from around the world. The accompanying
map also shows the current borrowing eligibility of member countries. For more information,
visit worldbank.org/results.




 1    Brazil: In Minas Geris, the execution       8    Ghana: The percentage of the
      rates of priority projects improved              population in the lowest socioeconomic
      to more than 88 percent in 2013,                 quintile that had registered for a valid
      compared to 61 percent in 2012, due to           National Health Insurance Scheme card
      public sector efficiency improvements.           increased from 14 percent in 2008 to
                                                       48 percent in 2013.
 2    Bulgaria: Average exit time for freight
      transport at the Bulgarian–Turkish border   9    Haiti: Between 2010 and 2014,
      was reduced from 105 minutes in 2008             approximately 340,000 children
      to 13 minutes in 2014.                           received tuition waivers to access
                                                       primary education, contributing to
 3    China: About 2,300 village clinics were
                                                       increased enrollment rates from 78
      built, expanded, or rehabilitated, with
                                                       percent to 90 percent over the past
      improved medical equipment and office
                                                       5 years.
      supplies; and over 180,000 health care
      workers were trained between 2008           10   India: Over 7 million people in the rural
      and 2014.                                        areas of Karnataka were provided with
                                                       access to improved water sources from
 4    Republic of Congo: Almost 94 percent
                                                       2001 to 2014.
      of births were attended by skilled health
      care personnel in 2014, compared to 86      11   Indonesia: Between 2011 and 2013, a
      percent in 2008.                                 program for community empowerment
                                                       generated temporary employment for
 5    Côte d’Ivoire: Between 2008 and 2014,
                                                       around 1.5 million–2 million people
      4 million people in Abidjan gained
                                                       annually, of which more than 80 percent
      access to regular, solid-waste collection
                                                       were classified as poor.
      services, including 1.5 million people
      who previously had no collection            12   Iraq: To reduce classroom overcrowding,
      service.                                         59,000 additional seats were made
                                                       available; and more than 56,000
 6    Arab Republic of Egypt: 330,000
                                                       students benefited from improved
      households were connected to
                                                       learning conditions in newly built
      natural gas infrastructure, reducing
                                                       schools from 2009 to 2014.
      the consumption of liquefied petroleum
      gas by 132,000 tons per year.               13   Jamaica: Almost 10,500 men, women,
                                                       and children with advanced HIV
 7    Ethiopia: Between 2006 and 2013, over
                                                       received antiretroviral combination
      700 community groups were formed
                                                       therapy according to national guidelines
      and trained on group organization,
                                                       in 2012, compared to 3,000 in 2007.
      institutional capacity, and on savings
      mobilization and lending.


60	         THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
                                                                                                                                                                               Russian Federation


                                                                                                                  Russian Fed.
                                                                                                                         Poland Belarus                                   14
                                                                                                                               Ukraine
                                                                                                                                                       Kazakhstan                 Mongolia
                                                                                                                                 Moldova
                                                                                                                               Romania
                                                                                                                                       Georgia      Uzbekistan Kyrgyz Rep.
                                                                                                                              Bulgaria
                                                                                                             2                       Armenia   Azerbaijan
                                                                                                                             26 Turkey           Turkmenistan Tajikistan   23               3                                                        Rep. of
                                                                                                            25    Tunisia              Syrian   Islamic                                   China                                                      Korea
                                                                                                                             Lebanon A.R. 12 Rep. Afghanistan
                                                                                          Morocco                 West Bank and Gaza       Iraq of Iran                        Bhutan
                                                                                                                                       Jordan                Pakistan
                                                                                                      Algeria                   Arab                                     Nepal
                                                                                                                      Libya    Rep. of                         18
                                     9                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                          Egypt                                           10      Bangladesh
 Mexico                       Haiti                                                                                                                                                                     Myanmar
                       Jamaica                                               Cabo                                                                                                         India                                       Lao     29
                    Belize                                                   Verde   Mauritania
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P .D.R.
                     Honduras 13                                                                    Mali        Niger
     Guatemala
                                                                                     Senegal                                              Sudan      Eritrea Rep. of 30                                                             Thailand Vietnam
                                                                         The Gambia                                 Chad                                     Yemen                                                                                                                                   Marshall Islands
      El Salvador     Nicaragua                                                                   Burkina                                                                                                                              Cambodia                               Federated States
                                                                       Guinea-Bissau               Faso                                                    Djibouti                                                                                   Philippines
                                                                                        Guinea            Nigeria              22     7                                                                                                                                        of Micronesia
 17      Costa Rica                  R.B. de Guyana                                            Côte                  Central South                                                                 Sri
                                                                             Sierra Leone                                           Ethiopia                                                       Lanka
           19 Panama                Venezuela    Suriname
                                                                                      Liberia
                                                                                              d’Ivoire               African Sudan
                                                                                                           Cameroon Rep.                      Somalia                                                                                     Malaysia                      Palau
                              Colombia                                                          Ghana          Rep. of     21 Uganda      27 24                                           Maldives
                                                                                  5         8 Togo              Congo                                                                                                                                                                                           Kiribati
                    Ecuador                                                                      Benin      Gabon                  Kenya
                                                                                                                         Rwanda                                                                                                                                                    20
                                                                                      Equatorial Guinea              Dem. Rep. Burundi     Seychelles                                                                                                          11                                Solomon
                                                                                 São Tomé and Príncipe            4                                                                                                                                                               Papua                                        Kiribati
                                                                                                                      of Congo                                                                                                                        Indonesia                                   Islands
                                                         1                                                                      Tanzania Comoros                                                                                                                                   New
                              Peru                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Guinea                    Tuvalu
                                                       Brazil                                                                                                                                                                                                   Timor-Leste
                                                                                                                        Angola
                                                                                                                                    Zambia Malawi                                                                                                                                                                      Samoa
                                                                                                                                                            15
                                           Bolivia                                                                                                      Madagascar                                                                                                                         Vanuatu              Fiji
                                                                                                                     Namibia        Zimbabwe
                                                                                                                                                                          Mauritius
                                                                                                                             Botswana         Mozambique
                                                 Paraguay                                                                                                        16                                                                                                                                                    Tonga
                                                                         Dominican                                                                 Swaziland                                    Poland
                                                                         Republic




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bulgaria Romania Ukraine
                                                                                                        Antigua                  South            Lesotho
                                                             28                                                                  Africa
                                                                                                        and
                                         Chile               Uruguay                  St. Kitts         Barbuda
                                                                                     and Nevis
                                                 Argentina
                                                                                           Dominica
                                                                                                                                                                                      Croatia
                                                                                            St. Lucia                                                                             Bosnia and Serbia
                                                                                                                                                                                 Herzegovina
                                                                                 St. Vincent and
                                                                                 the Grenadines                                                                                              Kosovo
                                                                                                        Grenada                                                                   Montenegro
                                                                                                                                                                                        Albania
                                                                                                      Trinidad                                                                                  FYR
                                                                            R. B. de Venezuela        & Tobago                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 40125R1
                                                                                                                                                                                           Macedonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JULY 2015




14     Kazakhstan: More than 40,000 hectares                                  19 Panama: Over 234,500 people                                                                              23 Tajikistan: 41 percent of students                                                            27 Uganda: More than 5.5 million people
       of forestland were planted under the                                          in indigenous areas previously                                                                               enrolled in higher education in 2014                                                           were provided with HIV and AIDS
       Forest Protection and Reforestation                                           excluded from health care services                                                                           were girls, compared to 34 percent                                                             prevention counseling and testing
       Project between 2005 and 2014.                                                received immunization and nutrition                                                                          in 2013.                                                                                       services in 2013 and 2014.
                                                                                     interventions between 2008 and 2014.
15     Malawi: An average of 434,000 mainly                                                                                                                                               24 Tanzania: An additional 2.3 million tons                                                      28 Uruguay: Over 3 million people
       food-insecure households benefited                                     20 Papua New Guinea:                                                                                                of maize production were derived from                                                          benefited from improved service by the
       from public works programs annually                                           Telecommunications services were                                                                             better access for smallholder farmers to                                                       national water utility, which improved
       from 2008 to 2014.                                                            provided to nearly 500,000 unserved                                                                          improved seed and fertilizer between                                                           its compliance rate with internationally
                                                                                     people in rural areas between 2009                                                                           2010 and 2014.                                                                                 recognized best practices from 23
16     Mozambique: The number of bed-
                                                                                     and 2014, boosting total population                                                                                                                                                                         percent to 74 percent between 2006
       nights in tourism facilities in targeted                                                                                                                                           25 Tunisia: Between 2006 and 2014,
                                                                                     coverage from 20 percent to about                                                                                                                                                                           and 2013.
       districts increased from 15,000 in 2006                                                                                                                                                    the construction of four new, higher
                                                                                     93 percent.
       to more than 196,000 in 2014.                                                                                                                                                              education institutions increased access                                                  29 Vietnam: In northern and central
                                                                              21 Rwanda: Investment climate reforms                                                                               to higher education by about 6,500                                                             Vietnam, over 3,200 km of rural
17     Nicaragua: The share of the rural
                                                                                     between 2008 and 2013 helped the                                                                             places.                                                                                        roads were rehabilitated between
       population with access to an all-season
                                                                                     country to improve its ranking on the                                                                                                                                                                       2006 and 2014, and the share of
       road increased from 28 percent in 2010                                                                                                                                             26 Turkey: In Istanbul, over 1,000
                                                                                     Doing Business Index from 160 to 32.                                                                                                                                                                        people living within 2 km of an
       to 38 percent in 2014.                                                                                                                                                                     public buildings were retrofitted or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 all-weather road increased from
                                                                              22 South Sudan: Nearly 375,000 people                                                                               reconstructed to reduce seismic risk
18     Pakistan: Of about 4.6 million social                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     76 percent to 87 percent.
                                                                                     received critical health care services in                                                                    between 2005 and 2012, including
       safety net beneficiaries in 2014, 93
                                                                                     Jonglei and Upper Nile between 2012                                                                          schools that serve more than 1.1 million                                                 30 Republic of Yemen: Over 390,000
       percent received payment through
                                                                                     and 2014, despite ongoing internal                                                                           students and teachers, and hospitals                                                           poor households received cash transfers
       technology-based means, offering some
                                                                                     conflicts.                                                                                                   and clinics that serve about 8.7 million                                                       through an emergency crisis recovery
       access to branchless banking accounts
                                                                                                                                                                                                  patients annually.                                                                             project from 2011 to 2014.
       for the first time ever.
Annual Report 2015

    Financial Statements incorporated by Reference. The
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Audited Financial
    Statements of IBRD and IDA (“Financial Statements”) shall
    be deemed to be incorporated in, and to form part of, this
    Annual Report. The Financial Statements may be accessed at
    worldbank.org/financialresults.

Complete IBRD and IDA financial, lending, and organizational information is available on
the World Bank Annual Report 2015 website: worldbank.org/annualreport.
 The World Bank Annual Report 2015 (eBook), in 8 languages
 The World Bank Group and World Bank Corporate Scorecards
 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Fiscal 2015 Index
 World Bank Fiscal 2015 Annexes:
  − Lending Data
  − New Operations Approved
  − Income by Region
  − IBRD and IDA Organizational Information
 World Bank Fiscal 2015 Lending Presentation (PowerPoint)


World Bank Annual Report 2015 Team
Publisher
                                                                Print Production Coordinator
Carlos Rossel
                                                                Denise Bergeron
Editorial Coordinator
                                                                Web Production Coordinator
Daniel Nikolits
                                                                Paschal Ssemaganda
Design and Production Coordinator
                                                                Design, Typesetting, and Printing
Susan Graham
                                                                Cover and infographic designed by Hank Issac of
                                                                River Rock Creative; interior pages designed by Debra
Advisory Editors
                                                                Naylor of Naylor Design, Inc.; World Bank Group 2015
Nancy Lammers
                                                                Summary Results designed by Addison; typeset by
John Felton
                                                                BMWW; printed by Professional Graphics Printing Co.,
Barbara Karni
                                                                in the United States, and Quad Graphics, in Lima, Peru.
Audrey Liounis
Janet Sasser

This Annual Report follows recommended standards for paper use set by the Green Press Initiative.
The paper contains post-consumer fiber, is certified FSC® and EcoLogo, and is manufactured using
renewable biogas energy and elemental chlorine-free processing.


© 2015 International Bank for Reconstruction and                Attribution—Please cite the work as follows: World Bank.
Development / The World Bank                                    2015. World Bank Annual Report 2015. Washington,
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433                          DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0574-5.
Telephone: 202-473-1000; Internet: www.worldbank.org            License: Creative Commons Attribution–NonCommercial–
Email: feedback@worldbank.org                                   NoDerivatives 3.0 IGO (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO).
                                                                Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
                                                                commercial purposes.
Some rights reserved                                            No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform, or
1 2 3 4 18 17 16 15                                             build upon this work.
                                                                Third-party content—The World Bank does not
This work is a product of the staff of The World Bank. The      necessarily own each component of the content contained
boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information        within the work. The World Bank therefore does not
shown on any map in this work do not imply any judgment         warrant that the use of any third-party-owned individual
on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status       component or part contained in the work will not infringe
of any territory or the endorsement or acceptance of such       on the rights of those third parties. The risk of claims
boundaries.                                                     resulting from such infringement rests solely with you.
    Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered to be a    If you wish to re-use a component of the work, it is
limitation upon or waiver of the privileges and immunities of   your responsibility to determine whether permission is
The World Bank, all of which are specifically reserved.         needed for that re-use and to obtain permission from the
                                                                copyright owner. Examples of components can include,
Rights and Permissions                                          but are not limited to, tables, figures, or images.
                   This work is available under the Creative        All queries on rights and licenses should be addressed
                   Commons Attribution–NonCommercial–           to the Publishing and Knowledge Division, The World
                   NoDerivatives 3.0 IGO license (CC BY-NC-     Bank, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA;
ND 3.0 IGO) http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-          fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.
nd/3.0/igo. Under the Creative Commons–NonCommercial–
NoDerivatives license, you are free to copy, distribute, and    ISBN: 978-1-4648-0574-5
transmit this work, for noncommercial purposes only, under      eISBN: 978-1-4648-0582-0
the following conditions:                                       doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0574-5
Transparency, Accountability, Results:
Unlocking the Power of Information
The World Bank—comprised of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—
is the largest single source of global development knowledge and operates
under the principles of Open Development.
Open Development is about making information and data freely available
and searchable to encourage feedback, information sharing, and
accountability. Since 2010, the World Bank has expanded the public’s access
to its information, knowledge, and research through a variety of resources.
This proactive disclosure has helped to spread the organization’s wealth of
operational information, research, statistics, and data on development
challenges around the globe. Learn more at worldbank.org/opendevelopment.


WORLD BANK OPEN DEVELOPMENT RESOURCES
Access to Information Policy
Gain access to any information in the World Bank’s possession that is not
on a list of 10 exceptions. worldbank.org/wbaccess
Open Data
Find more than 18,000 development indicators, including data portals on
health, financial inclusion, poverty, and more. data.worldbank.org
Open Finances
Access, visualize, and share summaries of financial data for IBRD, IDA, and
IFC activities. finances.worldbank.org
Open Knowledge Repository
Search this open access repository for World Bank Group (WBG) research and
knowledge products. openknowledge.worldbank.org
WBG Corporate Scorecard
Discover a high-level and strategic overview of the WBG’s performance
toward achieving the institution’s goals. worldbank.org/corporatescorecard
World Bank Apps
Download free mobile apps for development data, projects, and
World Bank information. apps.worldbank.org


Five years after the launch of its landmark Access to Information Policy
and the Open Data initiative, the World Bank has emerged as a convener,
leader, and partner in global transparency, and is paving the way for a
citizen-centered approach to development.




worldbank.org/annualreport




                                                                     SKU 210574
