10913
INTERNATIONAL
BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT
1952-1953






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
1952-1953
* WAN K*S
WASHINGTON, D. C.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
September 9, 1953
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have been authorized by the
Executive Directors to submit to the Board of Governors this Eighth
Annual Report of the Bank. The report includes financial statements as
of June 30, 1953, based on an audit of the accounts of the Bank made
pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws. It also incorporates, pursuant
to Section 19 of the By-Laws, an administrative budget for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1954.
The report as a whole covers the Bank's activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 1952 and ending June 30, 1953.
Sincerely yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President.
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Summary-THE BANK'S YEAR IN REVIEW ....................   7
Chapter I-INVESTMENT PROGRAMMING IN UNDER-
DEVELOPED  COUNTRIES ...........................   9
The Place of Governmental Programming Units ........  10
Functions ..........................................    11
Organization .......................................    12
Some Points of Emphasis ............................    12
Chapter II-THE   BANK'S  OPERATIONS .........................                                             14
Asia ...............................................    14
The Middle East ....................................    19
Africa .............................................    21
Australasia .........................................    23
Europe ............................................    23
Western  Hemisphere ................................    28
Chapter IlI-FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESOURCES ..........  37
Earnings, Reserves, Repayments and Disbursements ...   37
Funds Available for Lending .........................    39
Sales of Securities ...................................    40
Financial Statements and Reports .....................    41
Chapter IV-MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION ..............  42
Organization .......................................    42
Personnel ..........................................    42
Training Programs ..................................                                 43
Staff Retirement Plan ...............................                                43
Joint Services of the Bank  and the Fund ...............    43
Administrative Budget ..............................    43
Chapter V-MISCELLANEOUS ...................................                                               44
Relations with Other International Organizations ......   44
International Finance Corporation ....................    44
Membership and Subscription ........................    45
APPENDICES ........................................                                     47



GROWTH OF THE BANK
(CUMULATIVE TOTALS EXPRESSED IN MILLIONS OF U.S. DOLLARS)
1,600                                                                   1,600
1,500                                                           /    1,500
1,400                         LOAN COMMITMENTS                          1,400
(NET OF CANCELLATIONS OR REFUNDINGS)
1,300                                  -      -                         1,300
1,200                                                                   1,200
1,100                                            /1,100
GROSS 
1,000                                        / DISBURSEMENTS            1,000
900                                    /o /110
800                                                                   100
700                                                       OF
600
500___ _
400                                                                   50
300                                                 OBLIGATIONS OF
f  S   /      /         .c****      ~~~BORROWER
SOLD BY BANK      30
200
REPAYMENTS OF                  20
I00                                   PRINCIPAL TO BANK    ,_~s1 
1 0 0                    _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   g
1947      1948       1949       1950       1951      1952       1953
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
*Net income appropriated to Supplemental Reserve and commissions appropriated to Special Reserve



Summary-The Bank's Year in Review
Membership and Capital Subscriptions            Disbursements
Three more countries joined the Bank during     Disbursements on new and existing loans,
the fiscal year; Germany, Japan, and Jordan    which were at the highest rate reached since the
became members in August 1952. Membership    Bank's development lending began, amounted to
was thus increased from 51 to 54, and total sub-   the equivalent of $226.8 million. Total disburse-
scribed capital to the equivalent of over $9,036    ments now stand at $1,103 million.
million.                                             With an improved supply position outside
Lending Operations                              the United States, currencies other than United
States dollars played a larger part than hitherto
During the year the Bank made ten loans in   in the Bank's disbursements. Of the year's total
nine countries amounting to the equivalent of    disbursements, the equivalent of $39.6 million
$178.6 million. This brought the total of Bank    was in these currencies and accounted for 17%
lending to date to $1,591 million in 29 countries.    of the year's total. Of total disbursements $144.1
Two of the year's loans were made in sup-    million was spent in the United States and $82.7
port of a broad range of economic projects. Agri-    million (over 36% ) in other countries.
culture, basic industries and transport benefited
from  a loan to Australia.  In Yugoslavia, the    Financial Position
Bank supported a group of projects expected          Resources available for lending were aug-
to be of special value in improving the country's    mented by the sale, in October 1952, of $60 mil-
balance of payments.
Splnecifi kyey industres.  were hlped b Bank lion of the Bank's bonds in the United States.
Spcfckyidsre-eehle  yBn                     No further issues were made during the year in
lendimg for iron and steel production in India, for
wood-poduct   e  n   l                     the United States, where there was a sharp in-
wood-products industries in Finland and for a fer-    ces  ntecs  fbroig
tilizer plant in Iceland. Another loan made to
. .                 ~~~~~~Funds were raised outside the United States
India during the year is assisting the development    whn,sfore  se d  thid tie Ubic of-
program for the Damodar Valley; this program    when, for the second and third time, public of-
will help to provide more power for industry,   ferings were negotiated in Switzerland. A sum of
and water supply and flood protection for agri-   50 million Swiss francs (approximately $11.6
culture. In Peru, agriculture will benefit from a    million) was raised in November 1952, and ar-
loan for farm machinery. Transportation, essen-    rangements for another issue of equal size were
tial to both agriculture and industry, will be    completed in June 1953.
improved by loans in Colombia, Northern Rho-         Funds available for new loans were also in-
desia and Brazil.                               creased by the sale of the equivalent of $13.6
Non-dollar lending was larger in relation to    million of securities from the Bank's portfolio,
the year's total than in any earlier year. The    $8.3 million with its guarantee and $5.3 million
Bank's loans to Yugoslavia, Finland and Iceland    without.
were in European currencies, and service will be in  The Bank's resources of non-dollar funds
these currencies and not in dollars.            were increased during the year by further releases
[ 7]



from the capital subscriptions paid in by members    Apart from its general survey missions, the
in their own currencies. The equivalent of $26.6    Bank sent specialized missions to advise on particu-
million was released in this way. In addition, the    lar problems in a number of its member countries.
United Kingdom agreed, subject to consultation,    Methods of mobilizing domestic capital and of
to make up to £60 million ($168 million) avail-   establishing credit institutions to stimulate devel-
able for disbursement by the Bank for projects in    opment have been investigated in Cuba, Iceland,
Commonwealth countries of the sterling area over    Lebanon and Nicaragua. A study of measures to
a six-year period.                              encourage the further growth of the capital market
The net income resulting from the Bank's   in Colombia was completed and presented to the
operations during the year was $18.5 million.    Government. The Bank continued to assist in
This sum was added to a supplemental reserve    the technical examination being conducted jointly
which at the end of the year amounted to $76.5    by India and Pakistan, of measures to increase the
million. The special reserve rose to $37.2 mil-   use of water from the Indus River system. Advice
-  ;   1             r             ~~~~~~~~has also been given to member countries on a
lion, making the Bank's total reserve from opera- 
tions $113.7 million.                           wide range of problems directly connected with
the Bank's lending operations.
All debt service charges and principal re-    two misseion sponsoi
payments due to the Bank were promptly metTwmisospnordbthBakjitl
with other bodies, reported during the year. The
during the year.  Repayments of principal re-    mission to Chile, organized in conjunction with
ceived during the year, including advance pay-   the Food and Agriculture Organization, presented
ments, amounted to $2.3 million, bringing the    its recommendations to the Government on an
total to $12.7 million.
agricultural development program.  In Mexico,
The chart facing the first page of this sum-    a study of long-term economic trends and capi-
mary shows, in addition to the cumulative total of    tal requirements was concluded by a working
loan commitments and disbursements, repayments    party composed of Bank and Mexican economists.
of principal, sales of borrowers' obligations, and
the growth of reserves.                         International Finance Corporation
Examination of the proposal to set up an
Advisory Services                               International Finance Corporation was continued
In addition to its loan operations, the Bank    during the year. As proposed, the Corporation
has been active in helping its members to assess    would be an affiliate of the Bank; it would make
their economic potential and to prepare programs    loans to private enterprise without government
of development. The general survey mission re-    guarantee and would participate with private capi-
mains the Bank's main way of performing services   tal in equity investment. A report on this subject,
of this kind, and the reports prepared are being    made by the Bank in May 1953, stated that the
widely used as a basis for further action by Gov-    member countries upon whom the proposed cor-
ernments concerned. The tenth survey mission,    poration would have to depend for the bulk of its
to British Guiana, was carried out during the first   funds had not so far shown readiness to commit
part of 1953. The report of the mission to Ceylon    their capital. The matter is being kept under
was presented to the Government in July 1952,   review, but further action will be deferred until it
and the report of the mission to Jamaica in De-    appears that sufficient financial support is likely
cember of that year.                            to be forthcoming.
I18]



Chapter I-Investment Programming
In Underdeveloped Countries
The Bank is now beginning its eighth year of    Capital equipment can now readily be sent
work. Since 1946, it has had opportunities to   to most parts of the world; technical skills can be
observe the process of economic development in   imported.  Both the tools and the knowledge
many countries and on almost every level of ef-   needed for development are within reach.  But
fort, from  village to Cabinet council.  Bank    this does not mean, as is too often assumed, that
officers, staff and consultants have visited nearly   the chief requirement is to finance imports of
all the Bank's 54 member countries and many    foreign equipment and to attract foreign techni-
overseas dependencies as well. Their business has    cians. The availability of capital for these pur-
been carried out for a wide variety of purposes:    poses cannot, by itself, be expected to remove
to make broad economic assessments; to consult   some of the most important obstacles to economic
on major policies affecting development; to study    growth.
individual projects and examine the possibility of   To a greater or lesser extent, these obstacles
making loans for them; to assist in dealing with   to growth exist everywhere. In one country or
problems of management, engineering and finance    another, they include: the lack of traditions of
arising in the course of project execution; to help    political responsibility; the weakness of economic
in the mobilization of local capital; and to gain   initiative; low standards of education and training;
knowledge of or consult upon many other prob-    and  insufficient understanding  that economic
lems of concern to the Bank and its members.    progress requires patience, effort and self-denial.
Many observations by the Bank confirm the    The consequences may be lack of confidence be-
widely held belief that the resources of most un-   tween a government and its people and frequent
derdcveloped areas are adequate, if effectively    changes in government policies and personnel; un-
used, to support a substantially higher level of    sound economic and financial policies, dictated by
production and income.  There are many and    political pressures and often leading to prolonged
complex reasons why these areas have not been    periods of inflation; a reluctance of important
more developed.  Many cultures, for instance,    groups to accept necessary economic and social
have placed a low value on material advance and,    changes; waste of public funds on non-productive
indeed, some have regarded it as incompatible    activities; and weak administration in government
with more desirable objectives of society and of    and business. These factors discourage domestic
the individual. The character of government has    savings, and deter foreign investment.
not always been of a sort to create popular incen-  The interdependence of each aspect of society
tives; certain forms of social and economic organi-   in the development process is reflected in the fact
zation have offered obstructions. In part, the rea-   that, in countries now described as "developed,"
sons have been physical. Climate and topography    the era of technological change and rapid eco-
have imposed limits on economic growth; dis-    nomic growth was preceded and accompanied by
tances from centers of technological innovation    other changes of great importance.  These in-
and capital resources, especially in the past, have    cluded the evolution of new ideas concerning man,
been hindrances.                                society and the physical world, and the evolution
[9]



of new political and economic institutions that    of investment, the sources from which it comes,
made it possible to apply capital productively and    and the purposes to which it is put. The govern-
share the benefits of technology among large num-    ment's own share of investment in an underde-
bers of people. Not only the printing press and    veloped country, moreover, commonly amounts
the steam engine, but the school house and the    to between one-quarter and one-third of the total;
joint venture corporation have their chapters in   it is not only important in itself, but may have a
the still unfolding story of economic development.   direct effect on what enterprises are possible and
The institutions that can promote economic    profitable in the private sector.
growth cover an extremely wide range. Among a        The fact that financial and technical resources
great many developments in this field, the remain-    are limited in underdeveloped countries makes the
der of this Chapter is confined to one: the estab-    most effective use of these resources a pressing
lishment, in an increasing number of underdevel-    necessity. It lays on government a responsibility
oped countries, of institutions to weigh government    to develop its own policies and investments so that
policy and guide government investment in eco-   they will help to stimulate the economy as a whole
nomic development. This is a comparatively new    to greater productivity, increased savings and in-
phenomenon. It has been selected for comment    vestment and, as a result, higher living standards.
because the Bank believes that, in the underdevel-   This does not imply a detailed blueprinting
oped countries in which much of its work is now  of the economy or even of the government's role
centered, organizational innovations of this kind    in it. Still less does it imply close and coercive
can enhance the effectiveness with which existing    economic controls which are more likely to breed
resources are used.                              new controls than new production. Nor, finally,
does it justify the government's diversion of its
The Place of Governmental                       own financial and technical resources into enter-
Pro graimming Units                              prises for which private capital and management
One of the universal findings of the Bank's   are available, since that will lessen the resources
missions has been that underdeveloped countries    available for providing basic services and utilities
have much to gain from a better direction and    that generally lie outside the scope of private ini-
balance of investment. The misdirection of finan-    tiative.
cial resources has taken many forms: the invest-      But a stringency of financial and technical
ment of money in commodity speculation or idle   resources does mean that the government should
land; the construction of factories in the absence    exercise its influence consciously and consistently,
of markets; the building of a few monumental    rather than inadvertently and sometimes at cross-
projects at the cost of more modest but more per-    purposes with itself. A useful instrument in this
vasive programs; the use of public funds for    regard is a broad development program  which
purposes that private investors, given proper in-   looks ahead for a period of years, sets out major
centives, would have been willing to pursue; the    goals in production and investment, and provides
lack of foresight that has led to the building of    a guide to government decisions on policy, on ap-
hospitals and universities without adequate con-    proximate magnitudes of public investment in
cern for the availability of trained doctors, nurses    different sectors of the economy, and on the choice
or teachers.                                     and timing of individual projects.
The policies of government are no less im-       The formulation and carrying out of a de-
portant in underdeveloped countries than they are    velopment program of this kind tries to satisfy
elsewhere.  The level of government spending,   five objectives: (a) to review the total of govern-
the tax structure, tariff and monetary policies,    ment investment, so that it will neither unduly re-
among other things, influence the total amount    strict private investment nor exceed total capital re-
[ 10 1



sources and so produce inflation or other unhealthy     carried out and propose the allocation
results; (b) to coordinate development planning         of resources for the due completion of
within the government, so that projects in one          each stage;
sector will be supported by whatever complemen-     (d) to appraise from time to time the prog-
tary investment is needed elsewhere; (c) to estab-      ress achieved in the execution of each
lish priorities among development objectives and        stage of the plan and recommend the
plans to insure the best and most timely use of the     adjustments of policy and measures that
finance, manpower and other resources available;        the appraisal may show to be necessary;
(d) to give encouragement by policies and spe-          and
cific measures to the most useful private activities;  (e) to make such interim recommendations
and (e) to keep fiscal and economic policies con-       as appear to be appropriate on consider-
sistent with the long-run objectives of economic        ation of prevailing economic conditions,
growth.                                                 current policies, measures and develop-
ment programs.
Functions                                          In the case of Colombia, something in the
An increasing number of underdeveloped    nature of an approved development program ex-
countries have brought some or all of these func-   isted in 1951, in the form of recommendations
tions together in a governmental programming    made by a citizens' development committee on
unit. Among the units recently established, some    the basis of proposals presented by a Bank gen-
with Bank advice, are a National Bank for Devel-   eral survey mission in 1950. Along the lines of
opment in Brazil, a National Ministry of Planning    the mission's proposals, a National Planning
and an Economic and Social Board in Burma, a    Council was created in 1951, and began work in
Planning Committee of the Cabinet in Ceylon, a    April 1952. Among its functions are
National Planning Council in Colombia, a Plan-      (a) to study variations in the structure of
ning Commission in India, a Development Board          the national accounts, in order to obtain
in Iraq, a National Economic Council in Nica-           a continuing picture of the develop-
ragua and a Planning Bureau in Surinam.                 ment of the economy;
In the main, these units have assumed the      (b) to study and coordinate investment proj-
same essential duties, as a comparison of the In-       ects, indicating the priority which these
dian Planning Commission and the Colombian              projects should have in the light of the
Planning Council will suggest. At the time of its       resources and needs of the country;
formal establishment in 1950, the Indian Com-       (c) to study the coordination of the different
mission was instructed                                  programs prepared in the government,
(a) to make an assessment of the material,         to avoid possible conflicts and incon-
capital and human resources of the             sistencies among  efforts in  various
country, including technical personnel,       fields; and
and investigate the possibility of in-     (d) to serve as a consultative body to the
creasing resources that are found to be        President of the Republic in economic
deficient in relation to the nation's          and financial matters.
needs;                                    One other function is commonly included in
(b) to formulate a plan for the most effec-   the work of programming units. The effective
tive and balanced use of the country's   use of resources for development embraces the
resources;                            subject of how external assistance is to be used.
(c) on a determination of priorities, to define    The Nicaraguan Economic Council, the Colom-
the stages in which the plan should be    bian Planning Council and the Planning Com-
[11]



mittee in Ceylon, for instance, serve as screens    in some particular sector of the economy. Gener-
through which government requests for foreign    ally speaking, governments have tried to achieve
loans or other financial assistance to development   impartiality in the planning body either by making
must pass. In these and other cases, this screening    it a forum in which the differing views of respon-
also applies to technical assistance from abroad.    sible executives can be reconciled, or by composing
The Bank's general survey missions have re-   it of persons who have no operating responsibili-
peatedly stressed the importance of keeping the    ties. In the Ceylon Planning Committee and the
public informed as a means of spreading under-    Nicaraguan Economic Council, for instance, the
standing and enlisting the wide support vital to    programming group is composed of all the minis-
the success of any development program.  In    ters concerned with economic matters, so that all
some countries, this kind of education is the    may have their views represented. The Nicara-
task of state ministries of information; in other    guan Council's membership includes the Minister
countries, it is not performed at all. In Nicaragua,    of Economy (as chairman), the Ministers of Fi-
where there is no ministry of information, the    nance, Agriculture, and Public Works, the princi-
Economic Council has established as part of its    pal Secretary of the President, and the general
own secretariat a small office "to bring to the    managers of both the central bank and the newly
attention of the public the progress of economic    created Development Institute; other ministers
development."                                   participate from  time to time as matters arise
which directly concern them. In the case of the
Organization                                    Indian Planning Commission the members, apart
The organization of programming bodies is   from the chairman, have no other responsibilities
not uniform among the governments that have    in the Government.
them, and the organizational recommendations of      In any case, the programming body needs to
the Bank's general survey missions have differed    be supported by a secretariat competent to bring
from one country to another. There has been    it a balanced judgment on the separate plans of
common agreement, however, on the standards    the ministries and departments. kt is impossible
to be met.                                      to generalize on the size and composition of this
The programming unit must be situated on    staff. The secretariat of the Colombian Planning
an influential level of government, and it par-    Council is small, and is able to rely to a consider-
ticularly must have the right, express or implicit,   able extent on research and staff services of the
to state its views on development expenditures    central bank. The secretariat of the Indian Plan-
before commitments for these expenditures are    ning Commission is rather extensive and is divided
accepted.  Several units meet this standard by    into the following sections: resource and economic
having direct access to the prime minister or    surveys; finance; industry; trade and communica-
the chief executive of the government.  The    tion; food and agriculture; resource development;
National Planning Council of Colombia is at-   employment and social services. Several program-
tached to the Office of the President, as is the Na-    ming units regularly have the advice of advisory
tional Economic Council of Nicaragua.  The    councils composed of private persons drawn from
prime minister is the chairman of the Economic   industrial, agricultural and trade groups.
and Social Board of Burma, the Planning Com-
mittee of Ceylon, the Planning Commission of    SomePoints of Emphasis
India and the Development Board of Iraq.             A feature to be emphasized is that the basic
The programming body cannot function ob-    process entrusted to these units is programming,
jectively if at the same time it is charged with    and not planning in a detailed sense. Planning,
executive responsibility for carrying out projects   in terms of concrete projects and specific policies,
[12]



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Supplement to the
EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT
A Summary of Developments in the Bank
from
July 1 to September 4, 1953
MEMBERSHIP AND SUBSCRIPTION
The Government of Indonesia has asked the Bank to extend from September 16, 1953
to March 16, 1954 the period during which the Republic of Indonesia may accept member-
ship. The Executive Directors have recommended to the Board of Governors that the
extension be granted, and have prepared a resolution to that effect for the Board's
consideration at the Eighth Annual Meeting.
On August 26 China paid $50,000 of the balance of $2,920,000 due on her capital
subscription to the Bank. As of September 4, no payment had been made on the
$625,000 due from Czechoslovakia on her capital subscription.
MANAGEMENT
The Executive Directors have selected Eugene R. Black as President of the Bank
for a further five-year term that runs to July 1, 1959.
THE BANK'S OPERATIONS
Summary of Lending
Since the end of the fiscal year, the Bank has made seven loans, in Brazil, Iceland,
Nicaragua and the Union of South Africa, for an amount equivalent to $72,852,000. Each
of the loans is described below under the appropriate country heading. In cases where a
member government was not the borrower, the loans were guaranteed by the government
concerned. The interest rate quoted includes the 1% commission which, under the Bank's
Articles of Agreement, is allocated to the Special Reserve.
The Bank has now made 85 loans, totaling $1,663,618,464, in 29 countries.
Austria
Bank staff members arrived in Austria during August to study the general economic
situation and to discuss Austria's investment plans, particularly in the field of electric
power development.
Brazil
On July 17 the Bank made a loan of $7,300,000 for an electric power project in the
State of Minas Gerais in Brazil. The joint borrowers were the Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais S.A., a state-owned power comnpany, and one of its operating subsidiaries, the
Companhia de Eletricidade do Alto Rio Grande.
The project includes the building of a dam at Itutinga Falls on the Rio Grande, the
construction of a power station with 24,000 kilowatts of generating capacity, and the
erection of transmission lines and sub-statidns. Itutinga lies within the industrial
complex of Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Volta Redonda, the site of the largest
steel mill in Latin America. The area conta'ns important deposits of iron ore, manganese
and tin-bearing ores. Industry will take about 80% of the power to be generated at the new
plant and the remainder will be taken by public utilities serving three small towns.
The loan is for a term of 20 years and bears interest at the rate of 5% per annum.
Amortization will begin on January 15, 1957.



British Guiana
In mid-August the Bank transmitted to the Governor of British Guiana the report of
the general survey mission which visited the colony in February and March 1953.
The mission recommended a program aimed at increasing national income by 20%
and income per head by 6% over the next five years. The program calls for government
expenditures of 66 million British West Indies dollars (U.S. $38.5 million) over the five
years 1954-58, and the mission believes that most of this inxvestment can be financed
internally. About 70% of the investment is recommended for agriculture, transportation
and communications, and the remainder for forestry, industrial credits, electric power,
housing, surveys and various public works.
Because agriculture is the chief economic activity in British Guiana, the largest
investment is recommended in this field. The mission believes that the best way to
increase and diversify production is to extend and improve small-scale farming.
Recommendations are made for opening new lands for this development, as well as
for programs of land settlement and tenure, for agricultural credit, and for improved
processing and marketing and research and extension services.
Improvements in transport and communications come next to agriculture in
importance. The mission's recommendations in this field deal first with a greatly
improved road system as the most urgent need. Other recommendations cover re-
habilitation of the railways, improvement of coastal ferry and shipping services,
telecommunications, and internal air and postal services.
The mission recommends that the Government make an inventory of British
Guiana's extensive forest resources and formulate a program to assist the timber industry
to improve and modernize its operations. The aim of the program would be to increase
the supplies of wood for domestic needs and to intensify production for export, especially
in species of wood not now well known in world trade.
The report also contains proposals for expanding existing industries and estab-
lishing new industries; for housing and schools; and for continued geologic, hydro-
graphic, aerial and soil surveys. The mission also makes recommendations regarding
the institutions to plan and carry out the proposed program.
British West Africa
Nigeria
At the request of the Governments of Nigeria and the United Kingdom, the Bank is
sending a general survey mission to Nigeria to study the econornicproblems of the country
and to assist in the preparation of a development program. The mission will leave for
Nigeria in mid-September and expects to remain there for about two and a half months.
Ceylon
Bank staff members arrived in. Ceylon during August to study the economic situation
and prospects, and to obtain additional information on the Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectric
project submitted for Bank consideration in June.
Ecuador
A Bank mission arrived in Quito on September 1. The group will examine Ecuador's
economic and financial situation and study the Government' s development plans with
particular reference to transportation and agriculture. It will also study the technical
and financial feasibility of various specific projects which have been submitted to the
Bank for its priority consideration.
Iceland
On September 4 the Bank made two loans in European currencies to the Iceland Bank
of Development. One, in various currencies equivalent to $ 1,350,000,was for agricultural
development; the other, of £90,000 ($252,000),was for the construction of a building to
house radio equipment serving North Atlantic air traffic.



Iceland began a program of agricultural development in 1951. It aims to increase
farm production 50% by 1965, and should improve Iceland's foreign-exchange position
considerably through import savings and export earnings.
A Bank loan equivalent to $1,008,000 in European currencies, made in 1951, helped
pay for imports needed for the program during 1952. The new loan will finance imported
equipment and materials needed for the period July 1953 through 1954. The loan will help
to expand grasslands for grazing, to build farm structures to house sheep and cattle, and
to build farm dwellings.
The loan is for a term of 22 years and bears interest of 5% per annum. Amortization
will begin on September 1, 1958.
The second loan, of £ 90,000, will pay for the construction of a building to house
some of the radio equipment operated by the Icelandic Post and Telegraph Administration
for civilian aircraft flying over the North Atlantic. The equipment is at present sheltered
in an inadequate temporary structure and a new building is needed to assure the con-
tinuance of adequate and reliable service.
Under an arrangenient administered by the International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO), the cost of the service is paid from contributions by eleven countries, including
Iceland, whose airlines operate over the North Atlantic. ICAO has arranged for in-
creased contributions from these countries to assure sufficient revenue to service the
Bank's loan. Maintenance of the radio service will help Iceland to continue earnings of
foreign exchange from international aviation, and will be of benefit to the airlines of the
participating countries.
The loan is for a term of 12 years and bears interest of 4-3/4% per annum.
Amortization will begin July 15, 1954.
Lebanon
A Bank expert visited Lebanon in August and submitted to the Government proposals
for the establishment of an industrial development bank and for mobilizing local funds
for its capital.
Mexico
Since the end of the fiscal year, discussions have been taking place between
Mexican officials and the Mexican Light and Power Company with a view to providing
increased revenues and financing to enable the Company to carry on its expansion program.
Netherlands
On July 15 repayment was completed, five years before final maturity, of six loans
made by the Bank in 1948 to four Netherlands shipping companies: Royal Rotterdam Lloyd,
Nederland Line, Holland-America Line, and United Netherlands Navigation Company. The
loans totaled $12 million, were sold by the Bank with its guarantee in 1948 and 1949, and
at the time of final repayment, were held by banks in the United States and elsewhere.
Nicaragua
On September 4 the Bank made two loans to Nicaragua: $3,500,000 for highway
construction and $450,000 for a new electric power unit in Managua.
Construction of roads is needed to open new lands to cultivation and to provide
adequate transport between farm and market. Nicaragua is carrying through a program
for the construction of a network of main highways and feeder roads. In 1951 the Bank
made a $3.5 million loan for the construction of 162 miles of main highways, and work on
this part of the program is already well advanced. The new loan will be used for the
construction of 25 miles of main and 430 miles of secondary roads. When this program
is completed the cost of truck transportation should be reduced, commerce of all kinds
should be stimulated, and farm production greatly increased.
The loan is for a term of 10 years and bears interest of 4-3/4% per annum.
Amortization will begin on March 15, 1957.



The second loan made in September was for the import of a 3,000 kilowatt diesel
power unit to ease the power shortage in the area of Managua, the capital. Although
another 3,000 kilowatt unit was added to generating capacity in Managua early in 1953,
the power supply in this area is still seriously inadequate.
The loan is for a term of 10 years and bears interest at 4-3/4% per annum.
Amortization will begin on March 15, 1955.
Pakistan
A Bank mission visited Pakistan in July-August 1953. The mission reviewed
Pakistan's economic and financial position, examined the Government's development
program and discussed several development projects. In July, the Bank's Director
of Marketing visited Pakistan to advise the Government on the development of a market
for Government bonds.
Philippines
In July the Bank's Director of Marketing paid a second visit to the Philippines to
discuss the development of a market for Governrnent bonds.
Union of South Africa
On August 28 the Bank made two loans to help finance programs being carried forward
in the Union to meet needs for expanded transportation service and increased supplies of
power. One loan, of $30,000,000, was made to the Union Government to help pay for
imports of equipment and goods needed to enlarge the carrying capacity and extend the
services of the railways. The other loan, also of $30,000,000, was made to the
Electricity Supply Comrmission (ESCOM). an autonomous state corporation, to pay
for part of the imports needed in a program de signed to increase ESCOM' s power-
generating capacity by 80% during the period from 1952 through 1958.
The rapid growth of industry and mining in the postwar years has put a heavy
strain on public services in the Union, and especially on the railway system and the
power supply. The tonnage carried by the railways has increased by one-third since
1947, and ESCOM's sales of electric power have grown even more.
In 1951 the Bank lent the Union Government $20 million for imports needed during
two years of the railway expansion program. The new loan will help to finance imports
needed from mid-1953 to mid-1956 and will be applied principally to the purchase of
locomotives, freight cars and rails.
ESCOM is engaged in a construction program which by 1958 is intended to add 1.4
million kilowatts of generating capacity to existing capacity of 1.6 million. A Bank
loan of $30 million, also made in 1951, helped to finance imports for this program over
a two-year period. The latest loan will help to finance imported equipment needed for
the continuation of this program and will be applied particularly to the purchase of
turbo-generators, boilers, structural materials and electrical supplies.
Both loans are for a term of 10 years and bear interest of 4-3/'4% per annum.
Amortization on the ESCOM loan will begin on September 15, 1955, and on the railroad
loan on November 15, 1955.
FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESOURCES
Sales of Bonds from the Bank's Portfolio
Since the end of the fiscal year, the Bank sold the equivalent of $5,964,698 principal
amount of borrowers' obligations. Of this amount, $3,711,698 were sold with, and
$2,253,000 without, the Bank's guarantee.
These sales brought the total of bonds sold from the Bank's portfolio to $75,979,352.
Of this total, $53,514,844 have been sold with, and $22,464,508 without, the Bank's
guarantee. In addition two institutions in the United States agreed to participate,
without guarantee, in one of the Bank's loans to the extent of $997,000 as soon as
the loan becomes effective.



remains the work of other ministries and agencies.    It is implicit in the functions of the program-
The programming unit stimulates planning and    ming body that it provides a prod to action. In
fact-gathering where they need to be done; it views    the past, some governments have made the mis-
plans and policies objectively, measuring them    take of supposing that they had fulfilled their re-
against one another and against the resources    sponsibility by drawing up a program, and have
available; and it recommends whatever modifica-    left promising plans to exist only on paper. But
tions of substance and timing are necessary to    programs are not a substitute for action; and the
bring them together into a coherent whole.        existence of a programming unit empowered to
The Bank's general survey missions have fre-    review and to report to those in final authority
quently stressed that it is an important task of    can do much to see that plans are put into effect.
these units to keep informed of progress, and to       It is also obvious that the establishment of
recommend changes that may be reauired by cir-    a programming institution is not in itself a pana-
11:1            cea.  Little  purpose  can be served  by this
cumstance. While the goals themselves may
stand, il                 type of body unless a favorable climate is provided
stand, it iS only realistic tO anticipate that they    by aprpit ficladmntayplce. n
may be advanced or deferred by events impossible    by appropriate fiscal and monetary polscies and
to frese.  Th  timng ad amunt  f inest- by other steps to expand investment resources and
to foresee. The timing and amount of invest-      toserhminoheotpodcveoue.
to steer them into the most productive courses.
ment may be influenced by unexpected difficulties    Nevertheless, in any community where resources
in the construction of a basic project, by unex-    are limited and the calls upon them are particu-
pectedly rapid development in some sectors, by    larly urgent, a programming institution can help
changes of price levels and costs, by fluctuations    to lift development projects out of the arena
in the amount of local and foreign capital avail-    of day-to-day stringencies and short-term  needs.
able, and by many other factors. Any long-term    It can also bring more clearly into view, at a time
development program therefore needs to be kept    when self-denial will inevitably be called for, the
continuously under review and to be subjected to    gains to be won by steady pursuit of basic eco-
periodic modification.                            nomic improvements.
[131



Chapter II-The Bank's Operations
This section is a country-by-country descrip-    member government concerned.  The interest
tion of the operations of the Bank in the past fiscal   rates shown include the 1 %  commission which,
year. For each country in which the Bank was    under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allo-
active, information is given on one or more of the    cated to the Bank's Special Reserve. Additional
following topics: loans made; negotiations and    details, such as maturity dates of loans, amounts
surveys looking to possible loans; reports of prog-    disbursed and repayments of capital, are shown in
ress on Bank-financed projects; and technical as-    a tabular summary of loans in Appendix F, be-
sistance. A note is also made of completely dis-    ginning on page 54.
bursed loans more fully described in previous An-   Loans made during the fiscal year brought
nual Reports.                                  the total of the Bank's lending to $1,591 million
Preceding the account of operations in each    ($1,560 million net of $31 million of cancella-
country is a list by fiscal year of all loans made in   tions and refundings). The table on the follow-
that country. Unless otherwise indicated, loans   ing page classifies this total according to the
have been made to member governments; loans    purpose and regional distribution of loans.
to other borrowers have the guarantee of the
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
President's Visit to the Middle East and    field studies were undertaken during the second
Turkey                                         half of that year. The engineers of the two
In February and March 1953 the President of    countries, together with engineers of the Bank,
the Bank spent seven weeks visiting Egypt, Ethio-    met for a week in Karachi during December 1952
pia, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey, and    to exchange information obtained from  these
discussed their problems of economic develop-   studies. They spent the following six weeks visit-
ment.                                          ing irrigation works, dam sites and irrigated and
Indus River System                             unirrigated areas in India and Pakistan. In Janu-
ary 1953 they exchanged information in Delhi on
In 1952 the Governments of India and    other studies completed in the meantime. They
Pakistan, acting on an invitation from the Presi-   then agreed to meet again on September 1, 1953
dent of the Bank, began to study jointly the pos-   in Washington to begin the preparation of a com-
sible technical measures to increase the supplies    prehensive plan for the development of the Indus
of water available from the Indus river system.    basin, including preliminary cost estimates and a
Indian, Pakistani and Bank engineers held discus-   construction schedule for the new engineering
sions in Washington in May and June 1952, and    works involved.
ASIA
Burma                                          tion and to discuss the Government's develop-
ment plans. The mission spent four weeks in the
A fact-finding mission went to Burma in    country consulting with Government officials and
1953 to review the economic and financial situa-    visiting important production areas.
[ 14]



Bank Loans Classified by Purpose and Area
As of June 30, 1953
(In millions of United States dollars, net of cancellations and refundings)
Area
Purpose                        Total           Asia &                            Western
Middle           Austra-           Hemni-
East   Africa   lasia   Europe  sphere
GRAND  TOTAL                ......          1,560             187     132      150      734      357
RECONSTRUCTION LOANS
TOTAL (France, The Netherlands, Den-
mark, Luxembourg) .................           497               -                 -     497         -
OTHER LOANS
TOTAL ..............................          1,063             187      132     150      237      357
ELECTRIC POWER (Machinery, equip-
ment and construction materials). .. .      404              28       58       30      35      253
TRANSPORTATION .......      ...........       242              72       34       39      35       62
Railroads: locomotives, rolling stock,
rails, shop and station equipment. .      150              63       31       16        3       37
Shipping: vessels and marine equip-
ment ...........................           12               -        -        -       12       -
Airlines: planes and equipment ......         14                       -        7        7       -
Roads: building machinery and equip-
ment ...........................           46               5        2       16        -       23
Ports: docks, loading and dredging
machinery and harbor craft .......         20               4        1        -       13        2
COMMUNICATIONS (Telephone and tele-
graph equipment and supplies) ......         26               2        -        -        -      24
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY ........             150              51        -       54      28       17
Mechanization: general farm machin-
ery and equipment ...............          59               -        -       44        2       13
Irrigation and flood control: construc-
tion equipment and materials ... .         60              41        -        5       13        1
Land improvement: machinery, con-
struction equipment and materials. .       19              10        -        5        2       2
Grain storage: construction materials.        5               -        -        -        4        1
Timber production: machinery and
vehicles..                                  7               -   -   -   7   -
INDUSTRY ..........................           149              32        -      27       90        -
Manufacturing machinery ..........          126              32        -       20       74       -
Mining equipment .................           23               -        -        7       16       -
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT .............              92               2      40         -      49         1
Development banks ................           12               2        -        -        9        1
General development plans .........          80               -       40       -        40       -
1 15 ]



Ceylon                                                concerned, will coordinate the preparation and
In July 1952 the Bank transmitted to the         execution of all development projects.
Government the report of the general survey mis-           The Government is also considering the es-
sion which visited Ceylon late in 1951. Ceylon's    tablishment of a technicaL research institute as
chief task, in the opinion of the mission, is to ex-    recommended by the mission. Two Bank officials
pand and diversify its economy so that productiv-     visited Ceylon in November 1952 to discuss the
ity can keep pace with population growth.  The    feasibility of establishing this institute with the
report stated that resources in land, materials and    elp of the Bank and the United Nations Tech-
money are sufficient, if wisely managed, to meet    nical Assistance Administration.
the needs of the growing population, to improve            Discussions between the Bank and Govern-
the standard of living, and to strengthen the econ-   ment representatives on ways of financing a part
omy.                                                  of the Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectric project
The mission recommended a six-year pro-          began in Washington in June 1953; they will be
gram of development, and gave priority to an in-    resumed in Ceylon in August 1953.
crease in agricultural production. The report em-
phasized the need for improvement of agricul-    India
tural techniques and for putting new lands under        Fiscal  $34 million 15-year 4%  loan of August
1950:      18, 1949 for railway rehabilitation;
cultivation through irrigation, jungle clearance                    reduced at request of borrower on
and settlement.  It pointed out that the substan-                   May 16, 1950 to $32.8 million, which
tial investments proposed for electric power, in-                  had been disbursed by March 1951.
t-a investments proposed for electric power, in-  $10 million 7-vear f1/2% loan of Septem-
dustry and the improvement of transport should                      ber 29, 1949 for importation of agri-
also lead to higher output from the land. It also                  cultural machinery; reduced to S8.5
stressed the need for surveys in many sectors-in                    million on July 27, 1951 and to $7.5
million on August 25, 1952 at request
particular, water and irrigation, electric power,                   of borrower.
land use, soils and forests-and urged that, until              $18.5 million 20-year 4%, loan of April
these  studies  are  completed, new  large-scale                    18, 1950  for power development
schemes be deferred in favor of a greater number                   project.
a)                    Fiscal ,$31.5 million 15-year 431,4%  loan of De-
of smaller projects.                                    1953:       cember 18., 1952 to the Indian Tron
. .                   ~~~~~~and Steel Comnpany, Limited, for ex-
In the field of industry, the mission recom-                  pan     of ronpand steel proutn
;                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pansion ofr iron and steel production
mended that the foundations for industrial growth                  facilities.
be laid by research and education, and by fostering            $19.5 million 25-vear 47/8S% loan of Tanu-
ary 23, 1953 for electric powver devei-
a variety of new industries that would not ndi-                    opment, dood control and irrigation.
vidually involve heavy investment.  The report             The loan to the Indian Iron and teel Coi-
stressed the need for improvemenlts in public         pan       loCn   mate   InoDcebe  1952  and
t                   ~~                 ~~~~~~ ~~pany  (IISCO)), made in DecembDer 1952 and
health and education, with emphasis in the field      amounting to $31.5 million, resulted from  rec-
of health concentrated for the present more on        ommendations made bv a Bank mission that went
preventive than on curative measures.
to India under the leadership of the Chairman of
The Government is preparing a six-year plan      The First Boston Corporation to examine means
of development starting in 1953-54 which will    of increasing  iron  and steel production.  Al-
take into account the recommendations of the mis-    though the proceeds of other loans have been paid
sion. For this purpose, a Planning Committee of    through intermediate aoencies to private manu-
the Cabinet, assisted by a Planning Secretariat, has  facturers, this is the Bank's first loan in the manu-
been established. The Committee, which includes       facturing field to be made diarectly to a private
the Prime Minister and other ministers directly    concern. It will be used to finance imported equip-
[163



ment and services which IISCO needs to carry out    1953 season about 240,000 acres were reclaimed,
a five-year project to increase its annual productive    making a total of nearly three-quarters of a mil-
capacity from 350,000 tons to 700,000 tons of    lion acres since the start of the project. The work
finished steel, and from 160,000 to 400,000 tons    is being carried out by the Government's Central
of iron for sale to foundries. When this project    Tractor Organization. In the past year the Or-
is completed, India's finished steel capacity will be    ganization has further improved its operating effi-
about one-third higher than in 1952, and her    ciency and has made good progress in overcoming
foundry iron capacity will be doubled.           difficulties in ensuring proper maintenance of
One of the Bank's engineers visited India in    equipment. However, the obstacle still exists that
February and March 1953 to recommend, jointly    some states have not yet made available large
with two experts appointed by the Government,   compact blocks of land suitable for reclamation.
further steps to expand iron and steel production.    This has considerably raised the cost of the op-
Expansion in this field is an essential element in    eration.
the five-year plan for economic development.         The Bank is studying an application for a
The Bank's $19.5 million loan of January    loan to the power companies in the Tata group
1953 is for key projects in the plan for the de-    for the construction of a thermal-electric gener-
velopment of the Damodar River Valley, an im-    ating plant on Trombay Island near Bombay.
portant agricultural and industrial area west of
Calcutta. This loan will help to finance the con-    Japan
struction of two storage dams, two hydroelectric     Japan became a member of the Bank in
plants, and a barrage and irrigation system. The    August 1952. A mission spent two months there
hydroelectric plants will have a combined capacity   in the later part of the year, being joined for a
of 100,000 kilowatts. The irrigation system will   time by the Vice President of the Bank. The
supply water to a million acres and should make it    mission made a general appraisal of the Japanese
possible to increase the production of food grains    economy, and collected information bearing on
by 400,000 tons a year.                          Japan's economic prospects and her capacity to
The Bank had already made in 1950 a loan    service foreign debt. It also surveyed industrial
of $18.5 million for the development of the    and agricultural production and the problems of
Darnodar River Valley. This loan is helping to    economic development, and reviewed investment
finance the construction of a steam power plant    requirements in various fields.
at Bokaro, a stcrage dam at Konar and a system       In June 1953 discussions were begun with
of transmission lines.  The Bokaro plant was    the Government on the financing of electric power
formally opened by the Prime Minister in Febru-    development. The Bank is studying an applica-
ary' 1953. The first of the three 50,000-kilowatt   tion for a loan to finance tfe foreign-exchange
generating units started operation in that month,    costs of constructing three thermal generating sta-
and the plant should be in full operation by Sap-    tions. The st-ations, which would have a total ca-
tember 1953. The Konar dam is nearly com-    pacity of nearly 300,000 kilowatts, would be lo-
pleted, and it is expected that the transmission    cated at Osaka, Karita and Yokkaichi.  T hey
system will be finished early in 1954.           would be primarily for the purpose of supplying
The $10 million loan of September 1949 is   additional power to supplement hydroelectric sup-
being used to pay for heavy tractors imported to    plies in dry weather; in other periods they would
reclaim land in central India. With these tractors   take the place of less efficient thermal units.
land is being cleared of kans grass, a deep-rooted   These plants are part of the Government's
weed which cannot be extirpated by the traditional    program for reducing industrial costs through the
plowing methods of the region.  In the 1952-    modernization of equipment.  Japan has also
[ 17 ]



asked the Bank to consider collaborating in cer-      The $4.4 million port development loan is
tain hydroelectric power projects.                being used mainly to meet the foreign-exchange
cost of a dredging contract to assist in the deep-
Malaya and Singapore                              ening of a channel through the sandbar at the
Two members of the Bank staff visited Ma-    mouth of the Chao Phya River and thus open the
laya and Singapore in April 1953 to discuss the    port of Bangkok to regular traffic of vessels of up
desirability, possible terms of reference and com-    to 10,000 tons. The loan is also being used to
position of a general survey mission to the area.   finance cargo-handling equipment at the port
The Bank subsequently agreed to organize a mis-   terminal, and navigational aids in port waters.
sion to study the economy of the area and to make    Various difficulties in the execution of the dredg-
recommendations to assist the two governments   ing program  have been encountered; moreover,
in planning further economic development. The    an exceptional typhoon in October 1952 filled up
mission is expected to begin its survey in January    part of the channel already dredged. The Bank
1954.                                             has advised the Government on the steps neces-
sary for the completion of the channel before the
Philippines                                       end of 1953 or early 1954, and for its subse-
quent maintenance. Nearly half of the loan has
In December 1952 the Bank's Director of    been disbursed.
Marketing visited the Philippines for two weeks        With the encouragement of the Bank, the
to advise the Government on the development    Board of the Port Authority was recently recon-
stituted and strengthened as a first step towards
Thailad .increasing its administrative and operating effi-
ciency. The Bank has been asked to find an ex-
Fiscal $3 million 15-year 33/496 loan of October  pert to assist in reorganizing the Port Authority,
1951:     27, 1950 for railway rehabilitation.  and a qualified administrator to work with the
$18 million 20-year 4% loan of October   Port Authority.
27, 1950 for irrigation project.
$4.4 million 15-year 33/4%  loan of Octo-     The $3 million railway loan is being applied
ber 27, 1950 for port development,   to the reconstruction and re-equipment of the
Progress has been made on the Chainat bar-    Makkasan railway workshops near Bangkok, and
rage and the related system of irrigation canals   to the purchase of signalling equipment. There
and regulating structures forming part of the Chao    were considerable initial delays in determining
Phya irrigation project, toward the cost of which    the layout of the workshops and the types of
the Bank lent $18 million in 1950. Excavation
for the barrage is under way, while excavation    equipment required.  But all orders have now
for the navigation lock is almost completed and    been placed for imported goods, and deliveries
are being made at the site.  Construction and
concrete-laying has begun. Though delays in de-   eqipnarnogigfrwdstsacrly
liveries of equipment have caused work to fall    equipping  are now going forward satisfactorily,
behind schedule, it is expected that the whole    and  the workshops are likely to be completed in
project will be completed as originally planned by    the second half of 1954. The signalling equip-
the end of 1958. More than two-thirds of the    ment is arriving in Thailand and some has already
Bank's loan has already been disbursed.  Com-    been installed at stations. Nearly half of the loan
pletion of the project will give an assured water    has been disbursed.
supply to 21/4 million acres, and should increase     A Bank mission spent two months in Thai-
the production of rice in this area by approxi-   land in the early part of 1953. It inspected the
mately 800,000 tons annually.                     three Bank-financed projects and assisted the Gov-
I 18 1



ernment in solving some problems which had    and further railway development, and a power
arisen in their execution. It also discussed various    project with irrigation possibilities at Yan Hee on
development schemes suggested by the Govern-    the Ping River, in northern Thailand.  These
ment. Among these were programs for highway    projects are now being studied by the Bank.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Egypt                                           projects, mostly for the processing of agricultural
The Bank sent an engineering consultant to    products.  Agricultural loans made by the De-
Egypt in December 1952 to make a brief review   velopment Bank have been mainly in Ethiopian
of the position of the railways and their needs.    dollars.
Consideration of his findings has been suspended     The Bank's $1.5 million loan for the expan-
while the Government has been revising the de-   sion of telephone and international radio com-
velopment programs and priorities. In January    munications is not yet effective. The project has
1953 the Government gave the Bank general in-    been slow in getting under way because of diffi-
formation on a revised scheme for the develop-    culties in organizing the Imperial Board of Tele-
ment of the Nile valley, with particular emphasis    communications, the agency established by the
on a high dam above Aswan to provide irrigation    Government to carry out the project. The charter
and hydroelectric power. Detailed studies will be    of the Board was promulgated in October 1952;
sent to the Bank when completed.                the Board's new General Manager assumed his
post in the following month; and steps are now
Ethiopia                                        being taken by the Board to fulfill the remaining
..   ..                          ~~~~~~~~~~conditions for making- the loan effective.
Fiscal $5 million 20-year 4% loan of September
1951:     13, 1950 for rehabilitation of roads.
$2 million 20-year 4% loan of September  Iraq
13, 1950 for Development Bank.
$1.5 million 20-year 4%  loan of Febru-   Fiscal $12.8 million 15-year 3o% loan of June
ary 19, 1951 for rehabilitation and de-  950:   15, 1950 for food control.
velopment of telecommunications.        A staff member visited Iraq in February
Disbursements are almost complete on the    1953 to examine the progress of the flood-control
Bank's $5 million loan used to finance the for-    project being carried out with the help of the
eign-exchange cost of road-building equipment,    Bank's loan. The project is designed to protect
materials and services. About half of the coun-    Baghdad and the surrounding agricultural area
try's system of main roads has been reconstructed    against periodic floods of the Tigris River by con-
during the past two years. The three-year pro-    structing a barrage and canal to divert flood waters
gram of road reconstruction and maintenance is   into a large uninhabited depression northwest of
scheduled to be finished by February 1954; a road    Baghdad known as the Wadi Tharthar. Work
maintenance program  will be continued there-    on the canal, begun late in 1951, is proceeding
after.                                          steadily. In February 1953 the contract for the
The Bank has disbursed $0.7 million of its   construction of the barrage at Samarra was
$2 million loan to provide foreign exchange to the    awarded to a German firm.
Ethiopian Development Bank. Since starting op-       In March 1953 Bank representatives dis-
erations in May 1951 the Development Bank has    cussed with the Government and the Iraqi De-
made agricultural and industrial loans amounting    velopment Board steps that are being taken to im-
to Eth. $4.6 million (equivalent to U. S. $1.8    plement the recommendations of the Bank's gen-
million).  Foreign exchange from the Interna-    eral survey mission. Further discussions will be
tional Bank's loan has been applied to industrial    held in August 1953.
[19]



Jordan                                          Operation and maintenance of the locomotives
. .                 ~~~~~~have been satisf actory and the introduction of
In response to a joint request by the Govern-  .     .
ments of Jordan and Syria, a refinery specialist   diesel traction has led to considerable fuel econ-
was engaged by the Bank to study the economic    omy and saving in foreign exchange. The loan
implications and investment requirements of the    is being disbursed partly in U. S. dollars and
construction of an oilrefinerytomeetthenees partly in francs released from the French sub-
construction of an oil refinery to meet the needs    scripton to the Bank's capital.
either of Jordan and Syria together or of one of     phe Governte nBnks  negotat       h
these countries alone. His report was presented      The Government is negotiating with the
to the Government in May 1953.                  Bank for a loan to finance a portion of the for-
In March 1953 Bank representatives dis-   eign-exchange costs of constructing an integrated
cussed with the Government various development    pulp and paper mill in East Pakistan. A Bank
plans.                                          mission will visit Pakistan in July 1953 to review
developments in Pakistan's economic and finan-
Lebanon                                         cial position and to examine the Government's
Early in 1953 a Bank representative studied    development program. The Bank's Director of
the desirability of establishing an industrial de-    Marketing will also visit the country at that time
velopment bank in Lebanon, and in May 1953 his   to advise the Government and the business com-
munit on measures to strengthen the capital
report was submitted to the Government.  An    makt.g
expert will visit Lebanon in August 1953 to assist    market.
the Government in establishing the development    Syria
bank and in mobilizing local capital.
During the second half of 1952, Bank rep-
Pakistan                                        resentatives and Government officials held discus-
sions in Damascus on the technical and financial
Fiscal $27.2 million 15-year 48o8% loan of March
1952:     27, 1952 for railway rehabilitation.  aspects of projects for developing the port of
$3.25 million 7-year 4Yg% loan of June  Latakia and for constructing roads. These dis-
13, 1952 for agricultural machinery.  cussions will be resumed at an early date.
The Bank's $3.25 million loan is to finance     In response to a joint request by the Govern-
imports of tractors and other machinery needed in    ments of Syria and Jordan, a refinery specialist
a project for clearing, plowing, seeding and con-
ZD~~                        was engaged by the Bank to study the eco-
structing watercourses on 660,000 acres of the    nomic implications and investment requirements
Thal area in Punjab Province. The loan has not    of the construction of an oil refinery to meet the
yet been made effective because some of the key    needs either of Syria and Jordan together or of one
personnel needed to carry out the project have    of these countries alone.  His report was pre-
yet to be engaged. In the meantime, most of the
equipment has been ordered and some of it ha    sented to the Government in May 1953.
arrived at the site.                                 The Bank also provided technical experts to
Orders have been placed for most of the    study a project for a railway between Aleppo and
equipment being financed by the Bank's $27.2    Latakia and an irrigation and electric-power proj-
million loan of March 1952 for a program to im-    ect at Youssef Pasha on the Euphrates River.
prove and modernize the railways in East and         In June 1953 the Bank was asked to or-
West Pakistan. Twenty-three new diesel electric    ganize a general survey mission to study the coun-
locomotives have been operating on the main line    try's economy and make recommendations for
of the North Western Railway for a year or more.   further development.
[20]



EUROPE, AFRICA AND AUSTRALASIA
AFRICA
Belgian Congo                                  mission to carry out a survey of the economic
Fiscal $40 million 25-year 41/2%  loan of Sep-  problems of the country and to help in the prep-
1952:    tember 13, 1951 to the Belgian Congo  aration of a development program. If a formal
for development plan. Made simul-
taneously with loan of $30 million to  request for a survey is received, a mission is ex-
Belgium (see page 23).             pected to leave for Nigeria in the latter part of
Like the $30 million loan simultaneously    1953.
made to Belgium, the $40 million loan of Septem-    A member of the staff also visited the Gold
ber 1951 is supporting the Ten Year Develop-    Coast to study the economic conditions and prob-
ment Plan started in the Congo in 1950. Public   lems of the area.
investment under the Plan is now expected to
reach the equivalent of about $800 million, to    French Overseas Departments and
be devoted to the expansion of public services,    Territories
mainly in the field of transport. Withdrawals       After preparatory discussions held in Paris,
under the loan are not related to specific imports    a mission visited French West Africa in May and
but are geared to the rate of public investment.   June 1953 to study economic conditions and de-
Good progress is being made with the Plan.    velopment problems. It examined in particular
The value of investment goods imported in 1952    the diesel traction program of the West African
accounted for nearly half the Congo's total im-    railroads. A staff member also spent a few days
ports and was 50%o higher than in the preceding    in Algeria in June 1953 for exploratory talks
year. But the pace of public investment has not    with Government officials.
been so rapid as was originally expected. Over
half of the loan has been disbursed.
Fiscal $14 million 19-year 4344% loan of March
British East Africa                              1953:      11, 1953 to the Territory of Northern
Rhodesia for railway development.
A mission visited British East Africa toward   The Rhodesia Railways serve the needs of
the end of 1952 and studied the economic prob-    Northern  Rhodesia, Southern  Rhodesia  and
lems of Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika. It dis-    Bechuanaland, and the $14 million loan made in
cussed with the Governments, with the East Africa    March 1953 in support of the railway expansion
High Commission and with the Government of    program  will therefore benefit all three terri-
the United Kingdom, various projects which might   tories.  Although the Bank's loan was in fact
prove suitable for Bank financing.  In par-    made to the Northern Rhodesian Government,
ticular, it studied a railway and harbor develop-   the responsibility for the execution of the pro-
ment program considered specially important to    gram is shared by Northern and Southern Rho-
the further economic progress of East Africa, and    desia, and both Governments have undertaken to
for which external financing may be required at   see that it is carried out. The United Kingdom,
a later date.                                  of which Northern Rhodesia is a dependency,
has guaranteed the loan.
British West Africa                                 Owing to the exceptionally rapid develop-
Bank representatives went to Nigeria in May    ment of the areas which they serve, the Rhodesia
1953 and examined the desirability of sending a    Railways have been heavily overburdened since
[21]



the war. In 1952 the tonnage carried was more    Kingdom, and about one-third of the loan has
than 70% greater than in 1946. The difficulties    been disbursed. In the meantime, Southern Rho-
which have been encountered in handling this in-    desia's economic development continues to be
crease have, for example, led to the accumulation    rapid, and the demands for both electric power
of large stockpiles of chrome ore awaiting ship-    and railway services continue to exceed the ability
ment.                                           to meet them.
Measures being taken to improve the rail-       In March 1953 the Bank made a loan to
way system include the purchase of locomotives    Northern Rhodesia for the expansion of the rail-
and rolling stock, the improvement of permanent    ways serving both the Rhodesias. At the same,
way, the enlargement of yards and sidings, and    time, it entered into a subsidiary agreement with
the extension of repair shops. A new line is being    both Northern and Southern Rhodesia regarding
constructed from Bannockburn in Southern Rho-    the financing and carrying out of the railway
desia to the border of Portuguese East Africa, to    project. This loan, like that for power develop-
relieve the pressure on the port of Beira in Portu-    ment, was guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
guese East Africa, hitherto the chief outlet of the
landlocked territories served by the Rhodesia Rail-    Union of South Africa
ways. The new line will connect with a line       Fiscal $30 million 20-year 4% loan of January
being built by the Portuguese Government to the   1951:     23, 1951 to the Electricity Supply
port of Lourenco Marques.                                   Commission for power development.
The Rhodesia Railways program of expan-             $20 million 15-year 3Y49% loan of Janu-
ary 23, 1951 for expansion of trans-
sion and improvement is expected to cost the                portation facilities. Fully disbursed by
equivalent of $79 million during the three years            March 1953.
endingMarch1955. Althoughmostofthegoods              The Bank's two loans to South Africa, to-
purchased with Bank finance will come from the    taling $50 million, are directed toward keeping
United Kingdom, the loan will be in dollars.    the expansion of basic facilities abreast of the
Southern Rhodesia                               country's economic growth.  The sum  lent in-
cludes a $30 million loan to the Electricity Sup-
Fiscal $28 million 25-year 43/4% loan of Febru-  ply Commission, which provides about three-
1952:     ary 27, 1952 to the Colony of South-
ern Rhodesia for power development.  quarters of the Union's power consumption. This
The Bank's loan is helping to finance im-    loan is to be spent on a wide range of imported
ports of equipment and materials required in a    electrical equipment; approximately $25 million
program to expand the supply of electric power.   of it has been disbursed. The other loan put $20
This program is part of Southern Rhodesia's gen-    million at the disposal of the Union's transport
eral plan for economic development during the    expansion program.  Disbursements under this
four years ending in March 1955.  Power fa-   loan were completed by March 1953. Carrying
cilities are to be increased by the installation of    out of the program has been slowed down, how-
about 230,000 kilowatts of new thermal gener-   ever, by delays in receiving equipment from Ger-
ating capacity, the erection of some 2,000 miles of    many and the United Kingdom, and by the short-
transmission lines, and the installation of addi-   age of skilled labor.
tional distributing equipment.                       Since these two loans were made, the speed
The projects financed by the loan are pro-    of economic development in South Africa has
gressing approximately on schedule. Most of the    been such that the power plants and transport sys-
imports needed are being supplied from the United    tem are still unable to meet all the demands upon
[22 1



them. The Bank therefore agreed to send a mis-    second mission arrived in South Africa in June
sion to South Africa late in 1952 to study the    1953 to study railway and power service expan-
economic situation and to examine the Govern-    sion programs which might be suitable for financ-
ment's plan for additional public investment. A   ing by the Bank.
AUSTRALASIA
Australia                                         projects of the Commonwealth and State authori-
Fiscal $100 million 25-year 41/4% loan of Au-   ties, much has been used on machinery and equip-
1951:     gust 22, 1950 for development pro-    ment imports needed by farmers and private busi-
gram.                                 nesses. All of the imports for private use have
Fiscal $50 million 20-year 43/4% loan of July 8,  be    itiue   hog    omlcmeca
1953:     1952 for development program.         been  distributed  through  normal commercial
In July 1952 a $50 million loan was made    channels.
to give further assistance to Australia's economic     During July and August 1952 a Bank mis-
development. The programs to benefit from this    sion visited Australia to examine the progress of
loan have all been chosen because they play a    some of the projects for which dollar funds were
basic part in the country's economy, and in its    made available under the $100 million loan.
balanced development.  About one-third of the    Early in 1953 two of the Bank's agricultural spe-
loan will aid agriculture, and half of it will be    cialists went to Australia to study farm production
used for coal mining, the iron and steel industry,    and the effects of Bank-financed equipment on
railways, road transport and electric power.  A   agricultural development.  This mission  also
small part is allocated to manufacturing industries    studied Australia's farm  production targets and
related to such basic activities as agriculture,    the prospects for marketing farm  products.  It
transportation, construction and power.  About    found that most of the deficiencies in materials
$11 million of the loan has been disbursed.       and equipment, which had hampered the expan-
The first development loan of $100 million    sion of agriculture since the end of the war, had
was made in August 1950 and has now been very    been successfully overcome.  Output of cereals,
largely disbursed.  While some of it has been    milk and meat is expected to benefit considerably
spent on imported capital goods for investment    from the use of Bank-financed equipment.
EUROPE
Belgium                                           not related to specific imports but are geared to
Fiscal $16 million 20-year 4¼ 4% loan of March  the rate of public investment achieved in the
1949:     1, 1949 for steel plants and electric  Ten Year Development Plan for the Congo.
power.                                     The tin-plate mill, the blooming mill and
Fiscal $30 million 25-year 412%  loan of Sep-   the thermal power plant financed by the $16 mil-
1952:     tember 13, 1951 for development of    lion loan of 1949 are in full operation.  An
the Belgian Congo. Made simultane-
ously with loan of $40 million to the  amount of $1.8 million originally allocated for
Belgian Congo (see page 21).         the construction of the power plant and not
More than half of the $30 million loan of    needed for that purpose, is being devoted to the
September 1951 has now been disbursed. This    purchase of a continuous hot strip mill by the
loan was made to help to offset the pressure on    owners of the completed blooming mill. In June
the Belgian foreign-exchange position resulting   1953 Belgium repurchased and cancelled before
from Belgium's contribution to the development    maturity bonds to the value of $5 00,000 from this
of the Congo. Withdrawals under the loan are    loan.
t 23 1



Denmark                                               pulp over the fiscal year has created difficul-
Fiscal  $40 million 25-year 441o loan of August     ties. To aid Finland in adapting her economy to
1948:      22, 1947 for reconstruction.  Fully     this situation, the Bank has agreed to various
disbursed by March 1949.                changes in the projects it is financing in the wood-
The difficult dollar position of Denmark         products industries.
noted in the Bank's Seventh Annual Report im-Of the $20 million lent to Finland in April
proved considerably during  1952.  Her dollar         1952, $9.5 million was for additional machinery
trade deficit for the year was reduced by more    for the wood-products industries, $9.5 million for
than one-half.  Imports from the dollar area de-    imports of equipment needed to increase the sup-
clined; while, particularly as a result of larger ex-              .                   . .
penditures by United States armed forces in Eu-    ply  to electric powesr,ads $1  tmilo  fre eup
ment to construct access roads to timber areas and
rope, export earnings increased.                         reclaim  land.  The wood-products industries
Dollar-debt amortization payments, already       will also benefit from  the Bank loan of Swedish
due or about to fall due, still present Denmark with  kronor 18 million (equivalent to about $3.5 mil-
a financial problem. But the Ministry of Finance      lion) made in November 1952.  This loan was
has been able to increase the sums set aside to    financed through the release by the Swedish Gov-
meet these amortization payments in 1953. The         ernment of part of its paid-in subscription to the
improved position was reflected by Denmark's    capital of the Bank.  The proceeds will finance
decision to pay in May 1953 $302,000 on the           imports of equipment from Sweden. About one-
$40 million reconstruction loan, although this    third of the dollar loan and one-tenth of the
sum did not fall due until August 1953.               kronor loan have been disbursed.
Finland                                                    The $12.5 million loan of August 1949 has
Fiscal  $12.5 million 15-year 496 loan of August    been almost entirely disbursed, about four-fifths of
Fiscal  $12.5 million 15-year 4%g loan of August    itfreup ntorcnsutadmdrizth
1950:      1, 1949 to the Bank of Finland for de-  it for equipment to reconstruct and modernize the
velopment of power, wood-products       wood-products industries, the remainder for im-
industries  and  limestone  powder      ports needed for electric power development and
production.
$2.3 million 2-year 3%  loan of October     the production of limestone powder.
17, 1949 for equipment for timber
production; reduced at request of bor-  France
rower on September 30, 1951 to $2.1
million.  This loan has been com-         Fiscal  $250 million 30-year 41/4%  loan of May
pletely repaid.                            1947:      9, 1947 to Credit National for recon-
Fiscal  $20 milllion 18-year 43/4%  loan of April                struction. Fully disbursed by January
1952:      30, 1952 to the Bank of Finland for                   1948.
development of power and wood-               The possibility of Bank assistance in the de-
products industries and for agricul-
tural improvement.                      velopment of French overseas territories was dis-
Fiscal Swedish kronor 18 million ($3,479,464)       cussed in Paris in the closing months of the fiscal
1953:      18-year 43/4%4 loan of November 13,      year (see page 21).
1952 to the Bank of Finland for the
wood-products industries.
Most of the Bank's lending in Finland has    Germany
been for the modernization and expansion of the            The Federal Republic became a member of
wood-products industries, which account for nearly    the Bank in August 1952.  In the first half of
one-third of the national income, consume more        1953 a mission made two visits to the country to
than half the supply of electric power and pro-    study present economic conditions and the possi-
vide nearly the whole of the country's export earn-    bility of Bank lending.  During the second visit,
ings. The sharp fall in the price of chemical wood    the President of the Bank spent a short time in
[ 24 1



Germany and met officials of the Government    season of 1952. But progress has been good since
and members of the investment community.          the 1953 thaw allowed work to begin again, and
construction should be completed by December
Greece                                            of this year. Though the total of this loan, like
The Minister of Coordination visited the    the £360,000 loan of November 1951, was ex-
Bank in May 195 3 to discuss the present economic    pressed in sterling, other European currencies
situation and the investment program of Greece.    were also used in both cases.
A mission has been invited to visit the country        All the Bank's loans to Iceland are financing
to make a further examination of these topics, and    purchases in Europe. The currencies lent for this
is expected to leave for Greece within the next    purpose by the Bank have been made available
few months.                                       to it by releases from the paid-in capital subscrip-
tion of European members, and from the proceeds
Iceland                                           of the Bank's i5 million sterling bond issue of
Fiscal £875,000 ($2,450,000) 22-year 43/s% loan  May 195 1. Funds from the United States Mutual
1951:     of June 20, 1951 for power develop-   Security Agency have been drawn upon by the
ment.                                Icelandic Government to furnish the dollar costs
Fiscal £360,000 ($1,008,000) 22-year 412% loan
1952:     of November 1, 1951 for agricultural  and most of the Icelandic kr6nur costs of the
development.  Fully  disbursed by    projects.
March 1953.                               The Government has discussed with the
Fiscal $854,000 equivalent in European curren-               ...        ..
1953:     cies 17-year 43/0% loan of August 26,  Bank the possiblity of additional loans in various
1952 for a fertilizer plant.         currencies for several other projects.  A  Bank
The loan of August 1952, made in various    mission visited Iceland in May 1953 to study these
European currencies equivalent to $854,000, is    projects and to obtain data on the country's eco-
financing imports from  Europe of building ma-    nomic situation.
terial and equipment for a nitrogen fertilizer        The Iceland Bank of Development was es-
plant. The plant will make enough fertilizer to    tablished in February 1953, along the general
meet domestic needs and will help Iceland in her    lines recommended by a Bank representative who
plans to develop agriculture and lessen her de-    visited the country in 1952.
pendence on fishing. About one-third of the loan
has so far been disbursed.                        Italy
Last disbursements under the £360,000 loan     Fiscal $10 million 25-year 4122% loan of October
of November 1951 were made during the year.         1952:      10, 1951 to the Cassa per Opere Stra-
This loan was used to finance imports needed to                ordinarie di Pubblico Interesse nell'
Italia Meridionale (Cassa per il Mez-
build farm houses and other farm buildings and                zogiorno) for development of south-
to re-seed and fence grasslands. An amount of                 ern Italy.
Icelandic kr6nur equivalent to the loan has been      Satisfactory progress has been made with
deposited in a special account in the Agricultural    the 10-year development program  for southern
Bank and is being used to assist farmers with    Italy, in support of which the Bank lent $10 mil-
loans toward buildings and other imnprovements.   lion in October 195 1. This program, adminis-
About four-fifths of the £875,000 loan made    tered by the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, will bring
in June 1951, to pay for imports from Europe for    a tenfold increase in the acreage under irrigation;
hydroelectric plants on the Sog and Laxa Rivers,   it will also control floods, clear land, improve
has been disbursed.  Supply difficulties, particu-    roads, and provide for the settlement of farmers
larly those caused by the shortage of certain types    on land redistributed by the Government.  The
of steel, delayed work during the construction    loan is not intended to buy equipment, for this
t 25 ]



can be obtained within Italy. But it will bear the      Fiscal  $15 million 15-year 4%  loan of July 26,
impact on the country's foreign-exchange position       1950:      1949 to Maatschappij tot Financiering
van het National Herstel N.V. (Her-
of the higher tempo of activity resulting from                     stelbank) for industrial re-equipment
the plan's execution which is expected to employ                   projects; reduced at request of bor-
rower to $8.8 million on March 17,
a quarter of a million workers. The rate of dis-                    1950 and to $7.9 million on Janu-
bursement of the loan is geared to investment                      ary 9, 1952.
under the plan at a rate of $1 per 10,000 lire, and     Fiscal  $7 million 6-year 4Y8% loan of March 20,
1952:      1952 to Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maat-
disbursements have so far amounted to $8.2 mlu-                    schappij N.V. (KLM) for purchase
lion. Execution of the first phase of the plan, in-                of aircraft.
volving the expenditure of 100 billion lire, has           Over half of the $7 million loan of March
been somewhat slower than was anticipated, but        1952 to KLM  Royal Dutch Airlines has been
is expected to be completed by September 1953.        disbursed; the greater part of this amount repre-
The lira counterpart of the Bank's loan is    sented complete disbursement of the $3.5 million
being used to stimulate industrial development in     participation of The Chase National Bank of the
southern Italy.  Agreement has been reached on        City of New York.  Although there have been
seven projects to be financed from  this fund.    delays in the delivery of the planes included in
Three of these are for cement works. The others    the aircraft replacement program, seven  new
are for the production of superphosphates, fiber      planes were put into international service in 1952.
board, welded tubes and woolens.  Most of the         The remaining 16 are to be delivered during 1953
loan contracts have been concluded and the first    and early 1954. By helping to modernize KLM's
disbursements have already taken place.               fleet, the  loan  should  increase  the  foreign-
Two missions visited Italy during the year.    exchange earnings of the Netherlands.
Progress of the Cassa plan was surveyed, and the           Only $750,000 remains undisbursed of the
Bank studied the possibility of supporting the next   $15 million loan made in July 1949 to the Fi-
phase of the 10-year program with a further loan.    nance Corporation for National Reconstruction
(Herstelbank).  Of the 35 industrial re-equip-
Luxembourg                                            ment projects assisted by the loan, 21 had been
Fiscal  $12 million 25-year 41/4o% loan of August   completed by December 1952, 13 more are ex-
1948:      28, 1947 for equipment for steel mill    pected to be completed by the end of 1953, and
and railroads; reduced at request of    the remaining one during 1954.
borrower on December 19, 1949 to
$11.8 million, which was disbursed by        In June 1953 the four shipping companies
the end of that month.                  arranged to purchase and cancel bonds to the
value  of  $6  million  from   the  loans  of
The Netherlands                                       July 1948.  By this purchase, together with the
Fiscal  $195 million 25-year 41/4% loan of August   amortization payment due in July 1953, the whole
1948:      7, 1947 for reconstruction. Fully dis-                 . .
bursed by June 1948.                    sum of $12 mllion will be repaid five years be-
Fiscal  $12 million 10-year 3X6%  loans of July    fore final maturity.
1949:      15, 1948 to N.V. Stoomvaart Maat-
schappij "Nederland" (2 loans of $2     Turkey
million each), N.V. Vereenigde Ned-
erlandsche   Scheepvaartmaatschappij      Fiscal  $12.5 million 25-year 441o% loan of July
(one loan of $2 million), N.V. Neder-     1951:       7, 1950 for development of ports.
landsch-Amerikaansche  Stoomvaart-                $3.9 million 18-year 37Y8%  loan of July
Maatschappij "Holland-Amerika Lijn"                   7, 1950 for grain-storage facilities.
(one loan of $2 million), and N.V.               $9 million 15-year 33/4% loan of October
Rotterdamsche Lloyd (2 loans of $2                    19, 1950 to Industrial Development
million each), for purchase of ships.                 Bank of Turkey for development of
Fully disbursed by August 1948.                       private industry.
[261



Fiscal $25.2 million 25-year 43/4% loan of June  darpasa.  Bids for the Samsun and Iskenderun
1952:     18, 1952 for multi-purpose dam and     construction contracts have been received. The
power facilities on the Seyhan River.          i  contractsdhave bee  receive.     ah
The $25.2 million loan of June 1952 is to    program is
and Haydarpasa should be completed towards the
end of 1954 and at Iskenderun and Alsancak dur-
Dam, which will help to control floods, to irrigate    ing 1955. Samsun will take longer, and will be
the fertile Adana Plain and to provide power for    the last of the five port projects to be completed.
existing and new  industrial enterprises in that                      p
area.  Consulting engineers have been engaged           Progress has continued on the projects fi-
and plans and specifications for the dam have been  nanced by the $3.9 million grain-storage loan of
completed.  Orders for construction equipment    July 1950 although, like the port loan, it is be-
have been placed. The equipment is being ship-    hind schedule. Construction of the 29 steel sheds
ped in time for use in the 1953 construction    for grain storage has been almost completed; they
should be available for storing the 1953 harvest.
season.
The nine inland silos are still under construction,
fromthe generatn pland distibeputiontof pwer hbut some of them should be in use this year. A
from the Seyhan plant will be put into the hands    cntuto   otathsbe   wre   o  h
of a corporation in which private capital will have    constructon contract has been awarded for the
a maorit holing.Thi cororaton, amedthe Iskenderun port silo, bids for the Haydarpasa port
aumajor ity hln.      i  Corpan, nam   te          silo have been received, and it is expected that
~ukuroa Utilty  Powr Compny, ha  been bids for the Alsancak silo will be invited soon.
formed and private investors have acquired a ma-
jority interest by subscribing to 16 million Turkish  Yugoslavia
liras of its issued capital. This operation is a new  Fiscal $2.7 million 2-year 3% loan of October 17,
and successful step in the mobilization of private   1950:      1949 for equipment for timber pro-
capital in Turkey.                                              duction. Fully disbursed by Decem-
ber 1950, and now completely repaid.
The Industrial Development Bank, estab-         Fiscal $28 million equivalent 25-year 4112% loan
lished to stimulate private industry and assisted    1952:      of October 11, 1951 for power, min-
by the $9 million loan of October 1950, has                     ing, industrial and othcr projects.
Fiscal $30 million equivalent 25-year 47Y8% loan
greatly expanded its activities.  By the end of      1953:      of February 11, 1953 for power, min-
April 1953 it had approved loans equivalent to                  ing, industrial and other projects.
83 million Turkish liras (about $30 million) out        A loan equivalent to $30 million was signed
of total resources equivalent to 104.7 million    in February 1953.  Twenty-seven projects are
Turkish liras. International Bank funds equiva-    being assisted by it in seven sectors of the econ-
lent to $5.8 million provided a part of the foreign-    omy: electric power generation and distribution;
exchange requirements of 19 loans made by the    coal mining; the extraction and processing of non-
Development Bank.  These loans are aiding a    ferrous metals; iron and steel production; other
variety of industries, including cotton and wool    manufacturing industries; forestry; and transpor-
processing, brick and tile production, machine    tation.  Some of these projects are already close
service and repair facilities, and the manufacture    to completion, and all of them should be in opera-
of pharmaceuticals. In May 1953 Industrial De-    tion within two or three years. They were selected
velopment Bank representatives visited the Inter-    for financing because they were expected to bring
national Bank to discuss the possibility of a sec-    an early improvement in the Yugoslav balance of
ond loan to provide additional foreign exchange.    payments.
Under the $12.5 million port development           Similar objectives were served by the loan
loan of July 1950, construction contracts have    equivalent to $28 million made in October 1951
been awarded for the ports of Salipazar and Hay-    in support of power, mining, industrial and other
[27 1



projects.  This loan has now been almost en-            Both the loans are expected to be disbursed
tirely disbursed or committed.                     and repayable entirely in European currencies.
A mission visited Yugoslavia in the middle    This is an important feature of the loan opera-
of 1952 and found that progress on projects sup-    tions; the pattern of Yugoslavia's external trade
ported by the earlier loan had been satisfactory.    is such that her exports go mainly to European
The mission also examined projects put forward     markets and her opportunities of earning dollars
by the Government for the second loan, and         are limited.  The Government is buying equip-
studied economic developments in Yugoslavia. It    ment and supplies from the United States, Canada
noted an improvement in the availability of goods.    and eleven European countries. To finance these
This improvement had been furthered by grants    purchases the Bank is using, in addition to Swiss
from the United States, the United Kingdom and    francs received from the sale of Bank bonds in
France, and changes in economic organization       Switzerland and sterling received from the sale of
aimed at decentralization of management and the    bonds in the United Kingdom, releases from the
encouragement of initiative.  The mission dis-    capital subscriptions of Austria, Belgium, Den-
cussed measures being taken to meet the difficulties    mark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands,
caused by the severe drought of 1952.              Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
Bolivia                                            work and for carrying forward its program  for
Bank representatives visited Bolivia in March  new highway construction and paving. The State
1953 to examine the economic situation and to    of Rio de Janeiro, adjacent to the capital city of
explain to officials the operating methods of the    Brazil, is highly industrialized and also an im-
Bank.                                              portant agricultural area. It is the chief supplier
of essential foodstuffs to Rio de Janeiro and to
Brazil                                             Niteroi, the State capital.  Trucks now carry a
Fiscal $75 million 25-year 41.296 loan of Janu-  heavy volume of freight throughout the State,
1949:     ary 27, 1949 to Brazilian Traction,    and motor-bus traffic is growing as the cheapest
Light and Power Company, Limited,     and most convenient means of transportation.
for power and telephone development.       Most of the projects financed by the $90
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 4¼4% loan of May 26,
1950:      1950 to Companhia Hidro El6trica do   million of loans made to the Brazilian Traction,
Sao Francisco for power development.  Light  and  Power  Company  in  1949  and
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 4¼4%  loan of Janu-   1951 have been completed. The project for the
1951:     ary 18, 1951 to Brazilian Traction,
Light and Power Company, Limited,     diversion of the waters of the Paraiba and Pirai
for power development.                Rivers to supply water for the new Forcacava
Fiscal $25 million 25-year 43/4% loan of June 27,  power plant and the old Fontes plant was com-
1952:     1952 to the Comissijo Estadual de
Energia El1trica of Rio Grande do Su  pleted in March 1952.  Since then, the pumping
for power development.                stations have been expanded by the installation of
$12.5 million 15-year 45/s% loan of June  additional pump units. Progress on the construc-
27, 1952 for improvement of rail-     tion of the For§acava plant has been delayed be-
ways.
Fiscal $3 million 5-year 41/4% loan of April 30,  cause of unforeseen difficulties encountered in ex-
1953:     1953 for highway improvements.         cavating for the underground power station. The
The $3 million loan of April 1953 will be    first two units are now expected to be in opera-
used to finance imported equipment needed by    tion before November 1953 and the third before
the Highway Department of the State of Rio de    the beginning of 1954, giving the plant an initial
Janeiro for the maintenance of its highway net-    capacity of 135,000 kilowatts.
[28]



Work is continuing on the hydroelectric   term investment program. The group consisted
power project at Paulo Afonso for which the Bank    of eight members: three of the Bank's staff; three
made a loan of $15 million in May 1950. Be-    specialists in agriculture and forestry nominated
cause of the large volume of water and rapid flow  by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
of the river, the most difficult part of the con-    United Nations, which also shared their expenses;
struction work is the closure of the dam section    and two consultants recruited by the Bank, one a
across the main part of the river. This work has    specialist on the use of water resources and the
required considerably more time than was esti-    other an expert on transport and communications.
mated.  In the light of the experience gained    The Bank expects to transmit the mission's report
during the last construction seasons, the engi-   to the Government in August 1953.
neering plans have been revised and, if no further
difficulties are encountered, the dam  should be    Chlle
in tim  fo.h lnosatoeain                  Fiscal $13.5 million 20-year 4½%2$ loan of March
completed in time for the plant to start operations  1948:    25, 1948 to Corporaci6n de Fomento
by April 1954.                                                 de la Producci6n (Fomento) and Em-
The Loan Agreement for the $12.5 million                  presa Nacional de Electricidad, SA.
loan of June 1952 to pay for imports required for         $2.5 million 6o-year 33p4% loan of March
rehabilitation of the Central do Brasil Railroad,              25, 1948 to Corporaci6n de Fomenro
became effective in January 1953. A loan agree-               de la Producci6n for agricultural ma-
chinery. Fully disbursed by Decem-
ment was concluded in December 1952 between                   ber 1949.
the Central do Brasil Railroad and the Banco        Fiscal $1.3 million 10-year 43/8%  loan of Oc-
Nacional do Desenvolvimento Econ6mico, pro-         1952:     tober 10, 1951 to Corporaci6n de Fo-
mento de la Producci6n for explora-
viding the required cruzeiro funds. The new ad-               tion and use of water resources of the
ministration of the Central do Brasil Railroad is-            Rio Elqui Valley.
sued its invitations for tenders for the supply of     The Endesa hydroelectric program, for which
rolling stock, but by the end of June 1953 no dis-   the Bank made a loan of $13.5 million in March
bursement had yet been made under the Bank        1948, is proceeding satisfactorily. Two installa-
loan.                                             tions, one at Pilmaiquen and the other at Los
The Loan Agreement for the $25 million    Molles with capacities of 10,800 kilowatts and
loan made to the Comissao Estadual de Energia    16,000 kilowatts respectively, have been com-
Eldtrica in June 1952 for power development in    pleted and are in operation. As a result of fur-
the State of Rio Grande do Sul also became ef-   ther studies, revisions have been made in plans for
fective in January 1953.  The Statutes of the    the construction of the Los Cipreses plant. The
Comissao have been promulgated by the Governor    new plan provides for a 3-unit plant: two units
of the State and notable progress has been made    with a combined capacity of 58,900 kilowatts to
in the organization of the Commission. Substan-    be financed by the Bank, and a third unit with a
tial headway is being made in construction and    capacity of 29,450 kilowatts to be financed from
bids have been invited for the supply of most of    other sources.  The transmission system  of this
the equipment to be financed under the loan. No    plant has also been revised to be better adapted to
disbursement had been made under the Bank    the future power requirements of the Endesa sys-
loan, however, by the end of the fiscal year.     tem. The plant is scheduled for completion by
the end of 1953, and the transmission lines and
British Guiana                                    substations during the first half of 1954.
A  general survey mission visited British         There has been some delay on the project
Guiana in February and March 1953 to prepare    being carried out under the Bank's loan of $1.3
recommendations to the Government for a long-    million to explore and use the underground water
[29]



resources of the Rio Elqui Valley. The first phase,    countered delays arising out of differences of
involving explorations to measure the volume of    opinion in Chile regarding the conditions under
underground water, will not be completed before     which the Government should guarantee the loan.
October 1953.  After that, it can be decided to    In April 1953, however, the Government decided
what extent it will be practicable to proceed with    to grant its guarantee. Bank representatives vis-
the second phase, which consists of the installa-    ited Chile shortly afterwards for renewed discus-
tion of permanent pumps and power facilities to    sion of the proposed plants and of problems which
operate them.                                       had arisen in connection with two coal-mining
The report of the joint Bank-FAO mission,    projects for which Bank financing had been re-
which visited Chile in 1951 to prepare a long-    quested.
term program of agricultural development, was
transmitted  to the Government in December    Colombia
1952.  A  special committee appointed by the          Fiscal $5 million 7-year 31/2%o loan of August 19,
Government is studying the report and preparing        1950:      1949 to Caja de Cr6dito Agrario, In-
dustrial y Minero for agricultural ma-
specific recommendations                                  chinery; reduced at request of bor-
The report contained recommendations aimed                   rower on April 2, 1951 to $4.9 mil-
at increasing agricultural output during the next                 lion, which had been disbursed by
February 195 1.
eight years to a level approximately 40%  above       Fiscal $3.53 million 20-year 4%' loan of Novem-
the 1945-49 level. First emphasis was placed on        1951:      ber 2, 1950 to Central Hidroel6ctrica
the need for the Government to adopt a consistent                 del Rio Anchicaya, Limitada, for
long-term  agricultural policy designed to create             $2.6 million 20-year 4% loan of December
incentives and maintain confidence among farmers                  28, 1950 to Central Hidroel6ctrica de
so that they will embark upon a vigorous expan-                   Caldas, Limitada, for power develop-
sion program.  Other recommendations for gov-                 $16.5 million 10-year 37.% loan of April
ernment action concerned the improvement of                       10, 1951 for highway construction
roads, railways and ports as they affect agricul-                 and rehabilitation.
ture, and facilities for processing, storing and mar-  Fiscal $2.4 million 20-year 412%0 loan of No-
1952:      vember 13, 1951 to Central Hidro-
keting agricultural products.                                     el6ctrica del Rio Lebrija, Limitada,
To provide additional land for cultivation,                 for power development.
the mission proposed that in the next eight years     Fiscal  $25 million 25-year 434% loan of August
1953:      26, 1952 for construction of the Mag-
Chile should bring under irrigation an additional                 dalena Valley Railroad and central
500,000 acres, reclaim and drain 750,000 acres,                   repair shops.
and return to production 250,000 more acres of           The Bank's $25 million loan of August
farm  land now  lying fallow.                        1952 was made for key parts of an extensive pro-
Various steps were recommended to increase     gram  being carried out to reorganize and reha-
production from land now under cultivation. The     bilitate the national railroads.  Of the loan, $20
mission was of the opinion that better feeding and  million is helping to finance the building of a
sheltering of animals, and disease control, could    railroad in the Magdalena Valley, and $5 million
increase milk production by 55 %  and meat pro-    is being applied to the construction of railroad
duction by 50%  in eight years. Crops could be      repair shops at Bogota. Work began on the new
improved by increased use of farm machinery, im-    Magdalena Valley Railroad in January  1953.
provement of seeds, and better pest, disease and    The line will be 235 miles long. It will connect
weed control.                                       the country's eastern and western rail systems, and
Negotiations on the proposed Bank loan for    will provide through rail transportation between
the construction of pulp and newsprint plants en-    the Pacific port of Buenaventura and important
[30]



cities of the interior. It will also supplement all-   industrial center of Cali.  Completion of the
river transport through the Magdalena Valley    project, originally scheduled for April 1954, prob-
and provide a fast and reliable river-rail route be-   ably will be delayed for several months.
tween the Caribbean ports and central Colombia.    The Bank's highway and railroad loans are
The new repair shops will provide facilities for    an outgrowth of the recommendations made by
the reconditioning and maintenance of rolling    the general survey mission which visited Colombia
stock which now lies idle for long periods await-   in 1949, and the Bank has continued to work
ing repair.                                   with the Government in carrying through other
The highway project being carried out with   recommendations of the mission. The Bank is
the help of the Bank's $16.5 million loan of    collaborating closely with the National Planning
April 1951 has progressed satisfactorily.  This    Council established in 1951. A staff member on
project consists of the rehabilitation of 1,802 miles   leave of absence from the Bank is acting as Plan-
of trunk highways and the construction of new    ning Adviser to the Council and the Bank has
sections to close gaps in the existing network.    nominated several specialists to serve the Council
By April 1953 all work, including paving, was   in various other capacities. Consulting engineers,
completed on 112 miles of roads; the full base    engaged jointly by the Government and the Bank
for paving was completed on 394 miles; and    to study the civil aviation corporation recom-
grading was finished on a further 158 miles. In    mended by the mission, completed their report
addition, the contractors had 1,213 miles of roads    early in 1953. The proposed corporation would
under maintenance. Two permanent repair shops,   be an autonomous government agency established
one at Bogota and the other at Bucaramanga, have   to operate airports and aviation communication
been completed and are being used to maintain   services. The Government is now taking steps to
the construction equipment.                   put into effect the recommendations of the report.
Early in 1953 the Government asked the        The Bank has also transmitted the report of
Bank for a supplementary loan to expand the    a financial expert, jointly retained by the Govern-
highway project. The expansion would increase    ment and the Bank, recommending measures to
the amount of paving from 50% to 80% of the    promote investment in industry and to improve
mileage included in the project, and would in-   the market for government securities.
clude a comprehensive maintenance program for
national highways. A Bank mission visited Co-    Cuba
lombia in April 1953 to examine this proposal      The Bank is working with the Government
and its report was under review at the end of the    and the Banco Nacional de Cuba to put into ef-
fiscal year.                                  fect some of the recommendations on financial
Progress on the three hydroelectric projects    measures made by the general survey mission of
being financed with the help of Bank loans has,   1950. Bank missions visited Cuba in July and
on the whole, been satisfactory.  The Caldas    November 1952 for this purpose and to consider
project has been supplying power to the city of    how the Bank might collaborate with the Cuban
Manizales since 1951 and the expansion of the    Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank.
distribution system is expected to be completed    A consultant engaged by the Bank visited Cuba
soon. The Lebrija project, which will make more   in May and June 1953 to study the organization
power available to the city of Bucaramanga, is   and operations of the Agricultural and Industrial
progressing according to schedule, and should    Development Bank with reference to the possi-
begin to supply power by the end of 1953. Prog-    bility of developing a market for its securities.
ress has been slow on the project being built on    The International Bank is examining the techni-
the Anchicaya River to supply more power to the    cal merits of two projects which are being con-
[31]



sidered by the Agricultural and Industrial Devel-     The Minister of Economy visited the Bank
opment Bank and has also been studying the gen-    early in 1953 to discuss the possibility of financ-
eral problem of how to develop a more active    ing irrigation, roads and an industrial develop-
capital market.                                   ment corporation. Preliminary technical and eco-
nomic information has been received and a Bank
Ecuador                                           mission will be sent to El Salvador to examine
Bank missions visited Ecuador in July 1952    these projects within the next few months.
and in February 1953 to examine conditions in
the country and to discuss with the Government    Jamaica
steps to be taken by Ecuador to facilitate Bank as-    The report of the general survey mission,
sistance in the development of its economy. The    which visited Jamaica in March 1952, was trans-
Government also discussed with the missions a    mitted to the Government in December 1952.
number of development projects.                  In May 1953 the Government issued a statement
At the end of May 195 3 the Government    of policy which accepted the recommendations of
and the British Council of Bondholders agreed on    the mission as a framework within which govern-
the terms of a proposed settlement of Ecuador's   the mision   for        k within w hovern-
ment action for economic development should be
external debt. The settlement is subject to rati-    planned and carried out in the coming decade.
fication by the Ecuadorian Congress. The Bank
plans to send a mission to Ecuador in August          In its report, the mission proposed a ten-year
1953 to examine specific projects which the Gov-    development program to increase production and
eminnto hxasine spresente  trojectswhih the Bk fg  reduce unemployment, largely through the devel-
opment of agriculture. Chief among its recom-
El Salvador                                       mendations in this field were programs of soil
Fiscal $12.545 million 25-year 4¼ 4% loan of De-  conservation, irrigation, reclamation of swamp
1950:     cember 14, 1949 to Comisi6n Ejecu-    land, and pasture improvement; land surveys
tiva Hidroel6ctrica del Rio Lempa for  needed for proper planning of land use, and
power development,                   changes in the system of land taxation. The mis-
Construction financed by the loan of $12.5    sion also recommended measures to increase indus-
million is somewhat behind schedule because of    trial productivity, to develop the tourist industry
difficulties encountered early in 1952 in the civil   and to expand mining, electric power and trans-
works for the hydroelectric planit on the Lempa    portation facilities.  In the field of social serv-
River. The project should, however, be finished    ices, the mission stressed the improvement of tech-
before the end of 1953, and it is probable that    nical education as a means of bringing about an
the plant will begin limited operations early in
1954. In the meantime a specialist found with
the help of the Bank is assisting the Government    Mexico
in a study of wholesale power rates and in study-
ing a rate structure for retail sales.              Fiscal $24.1 million 25-year 4½2% loan of Janu-
1949:     ary 6, 1949 to Comisi6n Federal de
Late in 1952, following a preliminary ex-                 Electricidad and Nacional Financiera
amination made by an expert from  the United                  for power development.
Nations, the Government informed the Bank of               $10 million 1-year 4½ 2% loan of January
its intention to make detailed engineering studies  6, 1949 to Comisi6n Federal de Elec-
tricidad and Nacional Financiera for
for the construction of a projected new port on               power development. (Refunded)
the Pacific Ocean. It is expected that when tech-   Fiscal $26 million 25-year 4V2% loan of April
nical studies are completed the project will be pre-  1950:   28, 1950 to Mexican Light and Power
Company, Limited, for power devel-
sented for the Bank's consideration.                          opment.
t 32 1



Fiscal $10 million (maturity dates 1952-1957)   sion needed to meet the growing demand for
1951:     31/2% line of credit of October 18,   power in the Mexico City area, the Company must
1950 to a consortium of eight Mexi-
can banks and Nacional Financiera for  be able to increase its revenues. It has therefore
financial assistance to small enter-  applied to the Mexican Government for a rate
prises. Expired on June 30, 1952
with $0.532 million of loans out-    icrease.
standing.                                 In April 1951, at the suggestion of the
Fiscal $29.7 million 25-year 41/2% loan of Janu-  Mexican Government, a working party consisting
1952:     ary 11, d9d2 td Naciinal Financiera   of an economist from  the Nacional Financiera,
for power development.               one from the Banco de Mexico and two econo-
Construction work on the electric-power    mists from the Bank's staff, began a study of the
projects which the Bank is helping to finance has    long-term trends in the Mexican economy, with
progressed satisfactorily during the fiscal year,   special reference to Mexico's capacity to absorb ad-
and about 100,000 kilowatts of new generating    ditional foreign investment. The group collabo-
capacity have been brought into operation. This   rated for more than a year in the preparation of
comprises 66,000 kilowatts at the Lecheria steam  their report and presented it to the Mexican Gov-
electric plant of the Mexican Light and Power    ernment and the Bank in October 1952.  The
Company (Mexlight), which serves the Mexico    conclusion of their task marked the successful
City area; 10,880 kilowatts at the Tepazolco hy-    completion of a new form  of collaboration be-
droelectric plant of the Federal Electricity Com-    tween the Bank and a member country.
mission, in the State of Puebla; 12,500 kilowatts      The report pointed out that Mexico's re-
at the Guaymas steam electric station in the State    markable development between 1939 and 1950
of Sonora; and the first of two 15,000-kilowatt    was accomplished in the face of many difficulties,
units at the Monterrey steam electric station. The    and was only made possible by an unusually high
only important projects which will be completed    rate of savings resulting from credit expansion and
somewhat later than originally scheduled are two    restrictions on consumption, and by exploiting in-
hydroelectric projects requiring elaborate civil en-    vestment opportunities which offered quick and
gineering works: Mexlight's new 45,000-kilowatt   substantial returns.  High returns were possible
plant at Patla and a third unit of 45,000 kilo-    as long as existing public facilities, such as rail-
watts at the Commission's Ixtapantongo station.    ways, roads and power stations, could be made to
The Mexican Light and Power Company    carry additional burdens, and as long as existing
has, however, experienced serious difficulty in    oilfields and mines continued to give rich yields.
financing the peso costs of its construction pro-     A  stage has now  been reached, however,
gram. When the Bank made its loan of $26 mil-    when heavy capital investment must be made in
lion in April 1950 to finance imports required for    the improvement of public facilities and in the
the program, it appeared that the peso costs could    development and conservation  of natural re-
be met by a 44 million peso loan from Nacional    sources.  Also, an increasing proportion of in-
Financiera and by suspending dividends during    vestment will have to be devoted to the mainte-
the construction period so that all earnings could    nance of existing undertakings.
be reinvested. However, unforeseen increases in       The report concluded that since it will be
the costs of construction have led to serious pres-    difficult to raise domestic savings above the pres-
sure on the Company's liquid funds.  Nacional    ent high level, Mexico will have to rely more on
Financiera has already made additional advances,    external capital than in the past, if development
but still further advances will be necessary if con-   is to continue at its present rate. Increased exter-
struction is not to be seriously retarded. To repay    nal borrowing will need to be accompanied by
these advances and to finance the future expan-    appropriate financial policies if it is not to disturb
[33]



the balance of payments. The report also recom-    sented to the Nicaraguan Government in Sep-
mended a greater degree of central coordination    tember 1952. The report recommended a five-
of development to ensure that projects are chosen    year development program designed to help the
so as to attain the maximum return from capital    country move forward simultaneously in agricul-
investment.                                      ture, transportation, power, industry, education
and health. The report also recommended cer-
Nicaragua                                        tain administrative and fiscal reforms which the
Fiscal $3.5 million 10-year 41/s% loan of June  mission felt were required to carry out effectively
1951:     7, 1951 for highway construction.    the proposed investment program.
$1.2 million 7-year 4%  loan of June 7,      The Government has undertaken a number
1951 to the Banco Nacional de Nica-
ragua for agricultural machinery.    of measures in line with the recommendations
Fiscal $550,000 10-year 43/8% loan of October  made in the report. It has accepted the recom-
1952:     29, 1951 for grain storage facilities.  mended minimum five-year development program
The grain drying and storage plant financed    as a basis for its future economic policy. It has
by the $550,000 loan of October 1951 was com-    organized a National Economic Council to coordi-
pleted in February 1953, seven months after    nate the Government's economic activities and to
ground was broken. Although it was completed    promote the development program; the Congress
during the off-season between harvests, it has al-   has passed legislation establishing a National De-
ready received some quantities of corn and beans.    velopment Institute; a Budget Bureau has been
It should operate close to capacity after the har-    organized; an income tax law has been passed;
vest in August 1953.                             customs duties and the general tax structure are
Satisfactory progress has been made under    being studied and revised; a new industrial devel-
the $3.5 million highway construction loan of    opment law has been passed; and the mining laws
June 1951. It is expected that the first of eight    have been revised.
road-building projects will be completed in Au-       At the Government's request, the Bank's
gust 1953. This is the road from Matagalpa to    special mission was extended beyond May 1952.
Jinotega, a distance of 21 miles; it cuts through a    A new special representative was appointed; he
coffee-producing area and will speed up the ship-    and an economist from the Bank's staff are in
ment of coffee to marketing centers and open new  Managua to assist in carrying out the development
lands to further coffee growing. Two more roads    program.
are expected to be completed during 1954. One,        Another Bank mission visited Nicaragua in
the most important artery in the system, is the    March 1953 to examine projects for the construc-
48-mile highway between Managua and Le6n. It   tion of feeder roads into areas opened up by the
will for the first time make road transport possible    Bank-financed road program  and for a small
between the capital and Le6n, the country's sec-    diesel-power plant in Managua.
ond largest city, and should stimulate commerce
in the area.  The other is a 19-mile road be-    Panama
tween San Jorge and San Juan del Sur, a port          A  joint mission from  the Bank and the
on the Pacific Ocean.                            United Nations Technical Assistance Administra-
The equipment acquired under the $1.2 mil-   tion visited Panama in August 1952 to arrange
lion agricultural machinery loan of June 1951    with the Government a program of technical as-
has been distributed and is in the hands of farmers   sistance directed toward the preparation and exe-
throughout the most important agricultural areas.   cution of fiscal and administrative reforms recom-
The report of the Bank's special mission,   mended by an earlier Bank mission. Subsequently,
which spent nearly a year in Nicaragua, was pre-    a Bank consultant visited Panama and made rec-
[341



ommendations to improve the fiscal and credit   tioned a special representative in Paraguay to as-
systems. At the suggestion of the Bank, experts   sist in matters related to the loan. Arrangements
from  the Banco Nacional de Costa Rica were    are now far advanced for the handling and dis-
called upon to advise the Panamanian Government   tribution of the Bank-financed farm  equipment
on the establishment of an Economic Develop-    and supplies; for the establishment by the Minis-
ment Institute. Legislation was passed creating    try of Agriculture of a tractor pool at an agricul-
the Institute in January 1953, and the new agency    tural colony near Asunci6n; and for the carrying
has now begun the preparation of projects as a    out by the Ministry of Public Works of a program
first step toward a coordinated development pro-    of road construction and maintenance designed to
gram.                                           link the agricultural regions of southeastern and
Other government action toward strength-    central Paraguay with marketing and transporta-
ening the financial position of Panama has in-   tion centers. By August 1953 it is expected that
cluded the adoption of measures to fund and liqui-   the $1.9 million portion of the loan will have
date the internal floating debt, to improve the tax    been disbursed and that most of the goods pur-
structure and the tax collection system, and to    chased with the funds will have arrived in Para-
establish sound budgetary practices.            guay.
These favorable developments have made it       Arrangements are being made for a Bank
possible for the Bank to give consideration to the    mission to visit Paraguay late in 1953 to examine
financing of development projects, and a Bank    other projects presented to the Bank for con-
mission visited Panama in March 1953 to examine    sideration.
projects for grain-storage facilities, hydroelectric
power and the importation of agricultural ma-    Peru
chinery.                                          Fiscal $2.5 million 15-year 4112% loan of Janu-
1952:     ary 23, 1952 for port improvements.
Paraguay                                          Fiscal $1.3 million 7-year 4Q/s% loan of July 8,
Fiscal $5 million 9-year 43/8% loan of December  1953:     1952 for agricultural machinery.
1952:     7, 1951 for agricultural machinery       The loan of $1.3 million of July 1952 is
and supplies and road-building equip-
ment.                               being used to import equipment for the agricul-
Under the terms of the Loan Agreement,   tural machinery pools of Servicio Cooperativo
this loan could not become effective until the    Inter-Americano  de Producci6n de Alimentos
Cr6dito Agricola de Habilitaci6n, one of the agen-    (SCIPA), an agency of the Ministry of Agricul-
cies to receive Bank-financed goods for resale to   ture established in 1943 by the Governments of
Paraguayan farmers, had strengthened its financial    Peru and the United States. SCIPA's machinery
position and improved its accounting and adminis-    pools are being used for plowing and harvesting,
trative procedures. When a large part of these    for land reclamation and for opening new areas to
reforms had been accomplished and the remainder    cultivation. It is estimated that the Bank-financed
were in progress, the Bank agreed with the Gov-    equipment will, in addition to other benefits, make
ernment of Paraguay that an initial portion of   it possible to put an extra 50,000 acres of land
the loan should be made available for withdrawal.   under cultivation. Most of the loan has been dis-
Accordingly, in September 1952, the Bank de-    bursed and most of the equipment has arrived in
clared the loan effective up to the amount of $1.9    Peru and been put into use.
million, with the balance to be made available       The Port of Callao loan of $2.5 million was
later as the Bank and the borrower might agree.    made to improve the port's facilities for handling
In December 1952, by agreement between    general cargo and to erect a grain elevator to un-
the Bank and the Government, the Bank sta-   load and store bulk grain. Virtually the whole
[ 35 1



amount allocated to the general cargo-handling    Uruguay
facilities has been disbursed. Bids are expected to  Fiscal $33 million 24-year 4144% loan of August
be called shortly for the erection of the grain     1951:      25, 1950 to Administraci6n General
elevator, and construction should begin within a              de las Usinas El6ctricas y los Tel6fonos
del Estado (UTE) for power and tele-
few months. The Port Authority, established in                phone development program.
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agree-      The project for the expansion of power and
ment, has made good progress in reorganizing the    t      f         o U
21)                ~~~~~~telephone facilities of Usmnas E1ectricas y los Tele-
operations of the port. As a result of improve-    fonos del Estado (UTE) was at first held back by
ments at the port, the 25 %6 surcharge, imposed    delays in making the loan effective and in con-
by shipping companies on freight consigned to
Callao, was removed in June 1953.                 cluding contracts for the main parts of the project.
Two Bank missions visited Peru during the    During the past year, however, work has been pro-
fiscal year 1953. They discussed with Govern-    ceeding steadily and all principal contracts have
ment officials the general relationship between    been placed.  Some diesel generators have been
the Bank and Peru, and reviewed the economic   temporarily installed  in communities not yet
and financial situation. The second mission which    reached by the primary transmission lines. This
spent about two months in Peru early in 1953,    equipment will be moved to the communities for
also made detailed appraisals of the technical and    which it was originally intended when the trans-
economic merits of development projects for irri-    mission system is completed.
gation, road maintenance, agricultural machinery,      In April 1953 a mission went to Uruguay to
cement production and electric power.             examine several projects submitted by the Gov-
In January 1953 the Government made a
ernment for the Bank's consideration. These in-
formal offer for the settlement of Peru's dollar
debt.l Thfer terms tha  bettlent notiateru'sdowt t cluded a program to increase livestock production
Foeign  Bondholderms'had n P got tivtedCoucil  oe    based upon the joint Bank-FAO report submitted
New  York, which recommended that bondholders    to the Government in July 1951, a substantial
should accept this offer. Settlement has already    further expansion of the electric power facilities
been accepted on more than two-thirds of the    administered by UTE, and a project for the re-
bonds.  Negotiations are continuing with the    habilitation of the Uruguayan railway system.
Council of Foreign Bondholders in London for    The report of the mission is under study by the
settlement of two sterling bond issues.           Bank.
[361



Chapter III-Financial Activities and Resources
EARNINGS, RESERVES, REPAYMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
The Bank's net income in 195 2-53 amounted    an advance payment of $302,000 due on August
to $18,485,411  compared with  $15,872,883    1, 1953.
during the previous fiscal year. In accordance     Sums paid by borrowers to retire portions of
with established practice, the net income has been   loans which had been sold by the Bank amounted
placed in a supplemental reserve against losses on    during the year to $17,837,948. This figure in-
loans and guarantees. This reserve was thus in-   cluded an advance payment of $6 million on the
creased to $76,513,511.                       loans of July 1948 to four Netherlands shipping
Loan commissions, representing a charge of   companies, and $500,000 on the loan made in
1% on outstanding balances of all loans, totaled    March 1949 for steel and power plants in Bel-
$9,551,822 for the year. This sum was credited,    gium.
as required by the Articles of Agreement, to the   Disbursements  on  loans  amounted  to
special reserve for meeting the Bank's obliga-    $226,756,982, compared with $184,777,004 dur-
tions. The special reserve was thus increased to   ing the previous year.  Total disbursements
$37,236,477. Total reserves of the Bank on June    through June 30, 1953, were $1,103,261,115.
30, 1953, were $113,749,988.                  Of this amount $1,014,536,420 is repayable in
U. S. dollars. The balance, equivalent to $88,-
The year's gross income, not including loan    724,695, is repayable in Austrian schillings, Bel-
commissions, was $42,839,207. f is amount    gian francs, British pounds sterling, Canadian dol-
loanvinme   was4$33,4937 income fromi        lars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire,
vestments $9,2538,ndmscelaneosino Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, South
$144,352. Gross expenses increased from $19,-   African pounds, Swedish kronor and Sw.Ss francs.
315,861 in 1951-52 to $24,353,796 in the past      Tt
fiscal year. This increase was due principally to  Tue togthecal             year is sown
increases in interest charges and other borrowing    on   the fng p w  the  money amoun
On the following page, with the money amounts
costs.                                        expressed in millions of United States dollars. The
Borrowers met promptly all repayments of    changed distribution in the past year indicates the
principal due during the year. The total thus re-   improved supply position in Europe. This has
ceived by the Bank amounted to $1,781,028. In    enabled European suppliers to benefit from the
addition, in April 1953 Nicaragua paid $245,000    Bank's policy of encouraging the purchase of ma-
to reduced future repayments on the agricultural   terials and equipment from whatever source could
machinery loan, and in May 1953 Denmark made    offer the terms most favorable to the borrower.
[373



Total to            Fiscal Year        Cumulative Total to
Area of F.xpenditure          June 30, 1952             1952-53            June 30, 1953
United States .................   $626.2  71.4%            $144.1  63.5%       $  770.3  69.8%
Canada ....................           61.7   7.0              9.7   4.3            71.4   6.5
Europe ....................          125.0  14.3             68.2  30.1           193.2  17.5
Latin America.                        58.4   6.7              2.6   1.1            61.0   5.5
Africa ....................            2.5   0.3              1.8   0.8             4.3   0.4
Near East ....................         2.5   0.3               -     -               2.5   0.2
Far East ....................          0.2    -               0.4   0.2             0.6   0.1
$876.5 100.0          $226.8 l00.0        $1,103.3 100.0
The growth of disbursements in currencies             outside the United States are illustrated in the ac-
other than United States dollars and the increased         companying charts, which show disbursements by
reliance placed by borrowers on sources of supply          area of expenditure and by currencies used.
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS TO JUNE 30, 1953
(EXPRESSED IN MILLIONS OF U.S. DOLLARS)
BY AREA OF EXPENDITURE                                  BY CURRENCY
1,200          _             _                                        ___   l___           _       1,200
1,100                                                                                              1,100
2,00                                                                                               1,000
900                                                                                              9A00
C                                                                                            0N
1947   1948   1949   1950  t951   1952   1953.  1947   1948   1949   1950   1951   1952   1953
FICAL YEAR ENOED  RJUNE 30
[ 38 ]



FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
Funds available to the Bank for lending, less         The improvement in the supply position in
loan disbursements to June 30, 1953, *are sum-    Western Euiope, to which reference is made in
marized below in United States dollar equivalent.    the preceding section of this chapter, has increas-
The table shows only those funds which have           ingly directed procurement by the Bank's bor-
been used by the Bank or which are available for      rowers to European markets, and has emphasized
use without further approval by members and are    the need for Western European currencies in the
likely to be needed in the Bank's loan operations.    Bank's lending operations.  Unless these curren-
Releases authorized by members during the year    cies are available from  18%  capital subscriptions
from .their 18%  capital subscriptions amounted to    or from  the proceeds of market operations, the
the e4uivalent of $26.6 million.                      Bank acquires the Western European currencies by
2 %  portion of subscription of all               purchase against United States or Canadian dollars
members ............... $ 177,185,000      or Swiss francs. In such cases, however, the Bank
lgq  portion of subscriptions made
available by:                              must impose an obligation on the borrower to
Canada ...... $ 53,356,000                   service the loan in dollars or Swiss francs.  But
South Africa . .  2,400,000                  there are often circumstances where it would be
Western European                             difficult for the borrower to accept a debt obliga-
members (listed                            tion in dollars or Swiss francs, while a debt obli-
belowv) .... 62,804,000
690,060 000    gation in other currencies would be well within its
Total0' ale    capacity to bear. The lack of resources of other
Total available capital subscriptions $867,245,000
Funds available from  operations. .    77,100,000  currencies can, 'therefore, act in restraint of the
Funds available from sale of bonds.   556,374,000  Bank's operations and, at the same time, limit op-
"18%" funds available from prin-                   portunities for exports of Bank-financed equip-
cipal repayments or sales of loans
in U.S. and Canadian  dollars                   ment by non-dollar member countries.
and Belgian francs, which may                         The Bank has consistently urged upon its
be loaned again without further
release ...................       43,795,000     member governments the need for liberal releases
Other funds'available from princi-                of their 18%  capital subscriptions. The following
pal repayments or sales of loans    39,885,000    table shows, in United States dollar equivalent,
Gross total available funds.... $1,584,399,000    the extent to which Western European countries
Loan disbursements .1,103,261,000
Excess of available funds over loan               have so far agreed to nTake releases from  18%
disbursements ............... $ 481,138,000     capital.
Available for lending
in certain circumstances,
Used or       but subject to
available for   consultation or                   Total 18%10
lending      other limitations  Unreleased        Capital
Austria ................      $    250,000           -         $  8,750,000   [$  9,000,000
Belgium    .      .........      4,500,000           -           36,000,000      40,500,000
Denmark .      ...............   1,136,000           -           11,104,000      12,240,000
France..                        34,092,000   $ 60,408,000            -           94,500,000 -
Germany:..-   3,100,000                              -           56,300,000      59,400,000
Italy .................'.        4,288,000       28,112,000          -           32,400,000
Netherlands ..............         490,000       49,010,000          -           49,500,000  % S       3
Norway ................            560,000        1,960,000.      6,480,000       9,000,000
Sweden ................          3,779,000           -           14,221,000      18,000,000
United Kingdom* .........       10,609,000      169,128,000      54,263,000     234,000j000
$ 62,804,000    $308,618,000    $187,118,000    $558,540,000
(*In addition the Bank has raised £5 million ($14 million) by an issue of bonds in the London market.)
[39]



Releases  of  18%   capital subscriptions    far, the Bank has been unable to finance the pro-
amounting in the aggregate to $33,395,000 have    curement needs of any of its borrowers through the
also been made by 18 other member countries,   releases of these currencies, either because the cur-
namely: Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salva-   rency released is inconvertible or because the use of
dor, Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Ice-    a convertible currency is specifically restricted by
land, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Paraguay,   the releasing country to purchases within its own
Philippines, Syria, Thailand and Yugoslavia. So    borders.
SALES OF SECURITIES
The bond market in the United States was   francs (approximately $11.6 million) of 31/2%
seriously affected in the past year by the return to    Ten-Year Bank Bonds due December 1962. The
freer money-market conditions and by the sharp    offering price was 981/2 and the yield 3.68%. In
rise, to levels not seen in 20 years, in yields on    June 1953 the Bank entered into an agreement
United States Treasury and other high-grade bonds.    with the syndicate for an issue of the same amount
Despite the difficulties imposed by these condi-   of 31/2% Fifteen-Year Bonds, due July 1968, and
tions, further progress was made in expanding    to be offered at 99 to yield 3.59%. Dealings in
the market for the Bank's obligations in the    these bonds, to be dated July 1, 1953, began on a
United States, and an encouraging expansion of    "when-issued" basis before the close of the fiscal
the market outside that country took place during    year. Both issues were oversubscribed, and the
the year.                                      bonds sold at a premium over the issue price.
New Bond Issues                                Sales from Portfolio
The Bank sold new bond issues in principal     Sales of securities from the Bank's loan port-
amount equivalent to $71.6 million. Direct obli-   folio during the year amounted to $13,637,966.
gations outstanding at the end of the year were    The funds obtained were added to the Bank's
$556.4 million.                                lendable resources.
In October 1952 the syndicate of 139 banks     With its guarantee, the Bank sold the equiv-
and investment firms in the United States headed    alent of $8,304,145 principal amount of bor-
jointly by The First Boston Corporation and Mor-   rowers' obligations. These sales raised to $49,-
gan Stanley & Co. purchased an issue of $60 mil-   803,146 the total of guaranteed issues sold by
lion of Bank Nineteen-Year 3½2 %  Bonds due    June 30, 1953. Of that sum, $20,174,301 prin-
October 1971, for public sale at 98 to yield    cipal amount has already been paid as the securi-
3.65 %. Nearly $20 million of this issue was   ties matured or by repurchases by borrowers be-
subscribed by investors outside the United States.   fore maturity. Guaranteed obligations still out-
The balance was widely distributed within the    standing at the end of the fiscal year amounted to
United States, life insurance companies, savings    $29,628,845.
banks and pension and trust funds being the prin-   The Bank also sold the equivalent of
cipal purchasers. The bonds quickly advanced to    $5,333,821 of borrowers' obligations without
a premium and during much of the rest of the    guarantee. By the end of the year, the total sales
fiscal year were above the initial offering price.  without guarantee had risen to $20,211,508.
In November 1952 the syndicate of leading      In addition, two United States firms agreed to
Swiss banks, headed in turn by the Swiss Bank    participate, without guarantee, in one of the
Corporation, Cr6dit Suisse and the Union Bank of    Bank's loans to the extent of $997,000 as soon as
Switzerland, offered to the public 50 million Swiss   the loan becomes effective.
[40]



Repayment of Obligations by the Bank          22%; mutual savings banks, 20%; pension and
In August 1952 the Bank redeemed 17 mil-   trust funds, 20%; commercial banks and other
lion Swiss francs (approximately $3,956,000) of   investors, 9%.  The total of holdings in the
its Serial Bonds of 194 due 195 3/54.  The Bank    United States was approximately $419.5 million,
also paid at maturity in February and March 1953    and the Bank's bonds were firmly established
respectively $10 million of its 2%   Serial U. 3    among a wide range of institutional investors.
dollar Bonds of 1950 and 5 million Swiss francs   Investors outside the United States purchased
(approximately $1.2 million)  of its 21w2% Swiss   the great majority of all guaranteed obligations
franc Serial Bonds of 1950.                   sold by the Bank during the fiscal year, and ac-
quired substantial additional amounts of the
Holdings of Bank Obligations                  Bank's own bonds. It is estimated that as a re-
sult of the growth of these holdings, not including
At June 30, 1953 the total of direct and    the Swiss franc issue of July 1, the total of the
guaranteed obligations of the Bank outstanding    Bank's obligations held outside the United States
was equivalent to approximately $586 million.   rose to the equivalent of $164.5 million, or about
Investors in the United States were estimated to    28%  of the whole amount. This total included
hold over 70%  of these obligations, distributed    obligations of about $109.1 million payable in
approximately as follows: insurance companies,    U. S. dollars.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND REPORTS
Appendices A through H contain a balance    statement of loans up to the end of the fiscal year,
sheet showing the financial position of the Bank    the Opinion of the Independent Auditor, and
as of June 30, 1953, and a comparative statement    other schedules giving details of the assets and
of income and expenses for the fiscal years ended   the capital structure of the Bank are also included.
June 30, 1952, and June 30, 1953. A complete
[41]



Chapter IV-Management and Organization
Organization                                       tions. An Economic Staff was maintained to ad-
In September 1952 a partial reorganization    vise the management and operational departments
of departmental duties was carried out primarily    on general economic, financial and investment
to provide for more systematic and continuous    problems of concern to the Bank, and to provide
contact between the Bank and its member coun-    statistical services.
tries.  The responsibilities in this field formerly    The new organizational pattern is outlined in
discharged by the Loan and Economic Depart-   the chart below, which also shows the names of
ments were assigned on a territorial basis to three    the principal officers of the Bank.
new departments, each of which was given re-    Person-nel
sponsibility for maintaining operational relation-     Mr. William  F. Howell, formerly Assistant
ships with a particular geographical group of the    Director of Administration, was appointed Di-
Bank's member countries. These new units are    rector of Administration in July 1952 in succes-
the Department of Operations-Asia and Middle    sion to Mr. Chauncey G. Parker, who resigned
East; the Department of Operations-Europe,    to become head of the United States Mutual
Africa and Australasia; and the Department of    Security Agency in Italy.
Operations-Western Hemisphere.                         Mr. J. Burke Knapp returned to the Bank in
The functions of assessing the economic, fi-    September 1952 and was appointed Director of
nancial and technical merits of projects proposed    Operations-Western Hemisphere. He had been
to the Bank for financing, and of following the    given leave of absence from the Bank in 1950,
progress of projects financed by the Bank, were    first to serve as economic adviser to the United
assigned to a new Department of Technical Opera-    States Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty
PRESIDENT
EUGENE R. BLACK                  ECONOMIC STAFF
LEONARD B. RIST - DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF THE                   VICE PRESIDENT
GENERAL COUNSEL                  VC   RSDN
DAVIDSON SOMMERS - GENERAL COUNSEL     ROBERT L. GARNER      _
I ______________                                                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND LIAISON STAFF
ASSISTANT TO PRESIDENT            RICHARD H. DEMUTH - DIRECTOR
WILLIAM A. B. ILIFF
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS -                                          OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
ASIA AND MIDDLE EAST
FRANCOIS-DIDIER GREGH -DIRECTOR                                      M. M. MENDELS - SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS -
EUROPE, AFRICA AND AUSTRALASIA
A. S. G. HOAR - DIRECTOR                                       ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT
L   DEPARTCENTILLIAM F. HOWSLL - DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS -                       S      OPERATIONAL ERVICE
WESTERN HEMISPHERE           DEPARTMENTS  DEPARTMENTS
J. BURKE KNAPP - DIRECTOR
TREASURER'S DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT OF                                                   HENRY W. RILEY - TREASURER
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS     _
MILTON C. CRO~SS-DIRECTOR
[   MARKETING DEPARTMENT                                              OFFICE OF PUBLIC RELATIONS
GEORGE L. MARTIN - DIRECTOR                                      HAROLD N. GRAVES, JR. - DIRECTOR
[42 ]



Organization and later to be the U. S. President  During the past year the Special Training
of the Joint United States-Brazilian Economic De-    Program has provided training in public finance
velopment Commission.                         for budget officials of Pakistan and Turkey, to an
Mr. Henry W. Riley, formerly Assistant   agricultural credit official of the Philippines, to a
Treasurer, was appointed Treasurer in January    central bank official of Greece, and to a planning
1953 in succession to Mr. D. Crena de Iongh,   officer of Pakistan. In its three years of operation,
who resigned and became Executive Director for   this program has had 12 participants from nine
the Netherlands.                              member countries. In addition, the Bank made
In  February  1953  Mr. Francois-Didier   special training arrangements during the year for
Gregh was appointed Director of Operations-    officials of the Industrial Development Bank of
Asia and Middle East. Mr. Gregh had been Di-   Turkey, for engineers of the Pakistan Govern-
rector of the Budget in the French Ministry of    ment, and for two German and two Japanese
Finance, and immediately before joining the Bank    Government officials.
was a Director of the Credit Lyonnais in Paris, in
charge of marketing and investments.          Staff Retirement Plan
In April 1953 Mr. Milton C. Cross was ap-     The Plan began its sixth year of operation in
pointed Director of Technical Operations. He is    May 1953, and approximately 45 % of the Bank's
on leave of absence from his position as Executive    staff now has five years or more of eligible service.
Vice President and director of the United States    At the end of 1952, the total assets of the Plan
investment firm of Harriman Ripley & Co., In-    were $2,178,600, an increase of approximately
corporated.                                   $475,000 over the previous year; the investment
During the fiscal year there have been 57    portfolio contained securities with a book value
appointments to the permanent staff of the Bank    of $2,134,100 and a market value of $2,296,400.
and 64 terminations. On June 30, 1953 there
were 426 permanent staff members from 24 coun-    Joint Services of the Bank and the Fund
tries. Four of the eight members of the Bank's    At the Seventh Annual Meeting, the Board
1953 General Training Program were nationals   of Governors raised the question of operating fur-
of countries not represented by permanent staff   ther services jointly with the International Mone-
members.                                      tary Fund. A committee was appointed by the
President of the Bank and the Managing Director
Training Programs                           of the Fund to investigate the feasibility of in-
The Bank's General Training Program (for-   creasing the sphere of joint Bank-Fund services.
merly called the Junior Professional and Adminis-
trative Program) is designed to give young men    Administrative Budget
and women from the Bank's member countries        The Administrative Budget of the Bank for
experience with general problems of economic de-   the fiscal year ending June 30, 1954 appears in
velopment and with the Bank's operations. The    this Report as Appendix I. The budget was
fifth year of this program began on January 1,   prepared by the President and approved by the
1953, with the enrollment of trainees from Cey-   Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19
lon, China, the Dominican Republic, Iraq, Nica-    of the By-Laws. In the absence of new develop-
ragua, Pakistan, the Philippines and Thailand.    ments, no report is being submitted to the Board
Citizens of 34 of the Bank's members have par-   of Governors on the Advisory Council, and no
ticipated in this training and selections are now    provision is made for the Council in the budget.
being made from candidates for the sixth annual    A special report on the budget is being presented
course.                                       to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting.
[43]



Chapter V-Miscellaneous
Relations with Other International              of the Bank and the Managing Director of the
Organizations                                  Fund with the Executive Chairman of the Tech-
Durinig the year the Bank continued to main-    nical Assistance Board and the Director-General
tain close relations with the International More-    of the United Nations Technical Assistance Ad-
tary Fund, the United Nations and other interna-    ministration.
tional organizations. As in the past, representa-   The arrangements have continued under
tives of the Bank attended meetings of the United    which the agricultural and forestry experts for the
Nations General Assembly and the Economic and    Bank's general survey missions have been nomi-
Social Council. In addition, the Bank was repre-    nated by the Food and Agriculture Organization
sented at meetings of other international agencies    of the United Nations, and the costs of their
when subjects of interest to the Bank were dis-   services shared by the Organization. The Inter-
cussed.                                         national Monetary Fund furnished a staff member
The President of the Bank presented a report   to serve on an operational mission to Burma; and
on the Bank's activities to the Fifteenth Session of    a number of other international and national or-
the Economic and Social Council in New York.    ganizations have made staff available for technical
In May 1953, in accordance with a resolution    assistance and for operational activities.
adopted by the Council at its Thirteenth Session,   Bank representatives attended the Central
he transmitted a report on the status of the pro-    American seminar on agricultural credit, held in
posal for an International Finance Corporation    Guatemala City under the auspices of the Food
(see below) to the Secretary General of the United    and Agriculture Organization, the Economic Com-
Nations.                                        mission for Latin America and the Government
During the course of the year the President    of Guatemala. The Bank was also represented at
of the Bank also attended several meetings of the    the Sao Paulo seminar on land problems, spon-
United Nations Administrative Committee on Co-   sored by the Food and Agriculture Organization
ordination, and staff members attended meetings    and the Government of Brazil.
of its subsidiary committees. The Bank also kept    Intern
in touch with the United Nations regional com-        ational Finance Corporation
missions and the Organization of American States,   In May 1953 the President of the Bank
and attended some of the meetings.              transmitted a report to the Secretary General of
The Bank was represented at numerous    the United Nations, setting forth the present
meetings of the United Nations Technical Assist-   status of the proposal to set up an International
ance Board and of the Technical Assistance Com-    Finance Corporation. Establishment of this body
mittee, which reviews the Board's activities on    was proposed by the United States International
behalf of the Economic and Social Council. In-    Development Advisory Board in 1951. It would
formation continued to be exchanged with repre-    be a corporation, affiliated with the Bank, au-
sentatives of the specialized agencies concerned    thorized to make loans to private enterprise with-
with technical assistance, and a series of meetings    out governmental guarantee and to make equity
to assure coordination was held by the President   investment in participation with private investors.
[ 44 ]



As requested by the United Nations Eco-   the Economic and Social Council, to be held in
nomic and Social Council, the Bank studied this    Geneva in July 1953.
proposal and in April 1952 transmitted to the
Council A Report on the Proposal for an Inter-    Membership and Subscription
national Finance Corporation. This was discussed  Japan, with a subscription of $250 million,
at the meeting of the Council immediately fol-   the Federal Republic of Germany, with a sub-
lowing and, in the later part of 1952, by the    scription of $330 million, and Jordan, with a
Second Committee of the United Nations General   subscription of $3 million, became members of
Assembly. The General Assembly approved a    the Bank on August 13, 14 and 29, 1952, re-
resolution adopted by the Council noting that the    spectively. Bank membership was thus raised to
Bank was continuing its examination of the pro-    54, and its total subscribed capital to $9,036,-
posal and requesting a report on the results of the    500,000.  Applications for membership from
Bank's further exploration.                   Indonesia, with a subscription of $110 million,
The report of May 1953 briefly reviews the    and Haiti, with a subscription of $2 million, were
main opinions expressed at the United Nations    approved by the Board of Governors at the Sev-
meetings, at the Bank's Seventh Annual Meeting    enth Annual Meeting. These countries have until
and in informal talks by Bank officers with offi-    September 16, 1953 to accept membership.
cials of member governments and representatives
of business and finance. It points out that coun-    Appendices
tries on whom the Corporation would necessarily   As well as appendices A through I contain-
have to depend for the greater part of its funds   ing the financial statements and the administrative
have not yet indicated that they are ready to com-    budget of the Bank, there are also included the
mit themselves to subscribe to its capital; for this   following:
reason, there would be no object in further for-  Appendix J-Voting Power and Subscrip-
malizing the project at present. The report also      tions of Member Countries as of June
states that the Bank intends to continue to explore    30, 1953.
the matter with member governments, and will      Appendix K-Governors and Alternates as
be prepared to present concrete proposals for their    of June 30, 1953.
consideration if and when there is a reasonable   Appendix L-Executive Directors and Al-
prospect that sufficient financial participation will  ternates and their Voting Power as of
be forthcoming.                                        June 30, 1953.
The International Finance Corporation pro-    Appendix M-Principal Officers of the Bank
posal is on the agenda of the Sixteenth Session of     as of June 30, 1953.
[45]






APPENDICES
Appendix                                                                                    Page
A-Balance Sheet-June 30, 1953 ..................................    48
B-Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the Fiscal Years
ended June 30, 1952 and June 30, 1953 ........................   50
C-Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1953 ..........   51
D-Statement of Subscriptions  to  Capital Stock  and  Voting  Power-
June 30, 1953 .............................................   52
E -Funded Debt of the Bank-June 30, 1953 ........................   53
F-Statement of Loans-June 30, 1953 .............................   54
G-Notes to Financial Statements- June 30, 1953 ....................   60
H-Opinion of Independent Auditor ................................   62
I-Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1954 ......    63
J-Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of June 30,
1953 ....................................................   64
K-Governors and Alternates as of June 30, 1953 .....................   65
L-Executive Directors and Alternates and their Voting Power as of
June   30,  1953  . ............................................                 66
M-Principal Officers of the Bank as of June 30, 1953 ................                    68
[ 47 ]



APPENDIX A
Balance Shee
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENC
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Other Depositories
(See APPENDIX C)
Member currencies, including $4,899,095 United States
Dollars
Unrestricted.                                     $ 5,890,196
Subject to restrictions-NOTE B .................    102,231,817    $ 108,122,013
Non-member currency                                                    14,856,599    $ 122,978,612
Investment Securities
United States Government obligations
($374,460,000 face amount; at cost less amortized
premium) . .                                    $374,196,887
Canadian Government obligations
(Can $5,000,000 face amount; at cost plus accumu-
lated discount) ............................. .    4,523,366
United Kingdom Government obligations
(£2,945,000 face amount; at cost) ...............    8,197,082    $ 386,917,335
Accrued interest      ..1,129,342                                                      388,046,677
Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital
(See APPENDIX D)
Receivable in United States currency
Calls on subscription to capital stock-NOTE C.. .                 $   3,545,000
Receivable in other member currencies-NOTE B
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes    $903,200,804
Amounts required to maintain value of currency
holdings-NOTE B ...........................          861,584      904,062,388      907,607,388
Loans Outstanding Held by Bank (See APPENDIX ,F)-
NOTE D                                                                                1,416,943,077
Accrued Interest, Commitment and Service Charges on
Loans-NOTE D                                                                             8,191,020
Other Receivables and Other Assets                                                          574,926
Special Reserve Fund Assets-NOTE E
Due from Banks-member currency-United States.. .                    $         135
Investment securities-United States Government obli-
gations ($34,913,000 face amount; at cost)                           34,889,449
Accrued loan commissions-NOTE D                                         2,346,893       37,236,477
Staff Retirement Plan Assets
(Segregated and held in trust)                                                           2,397,446
Total Assets                                  $2,883,975,623
[48]



APPENDIX A
June 30, 1953
Note A of Notes to Finaencial Statements, Appendix G
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including $5,390,168 bond
interest. .                                                                        $ 5,853,553
Collection on loan in advance of due date                                                   293,371
Undisbursed balance of loans (See APPENDIX F)
On loans held by Bank ..........................................   $ 396,019,253
On loans represented by obligations of borrowers sold under guar-
antee-NOTE F ......................                                  1,988,010      398,007,263
Funded debt (See APPENDIX E)
(Of this amount $12,326,934 is due within one year)                                   556,374,002
Bonds called for redemption not presented.                          $        2,020
Less funds on deposit with Fiscal Agent therefor  .      .......           2,020
Reserves for Losses
Special reserve-NOTE E.$ 37,236,477
Supplemental reserve against losses on loans and guarantees-NOTE G.     76,513,511      113,749,988
Staff Retirement Plan Reserve                                                               2,397,446
Capital (See APPENDIX D)
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 90,365 shares.. $9,036,500,000
Less-Uncalled portion of subscriptions-NOTE H               ..     7,229,200,000  1,807,300,000
Contingent Liability-OBLIGATIONS OF BORROWERS OUTSTAND-
ING SOLD UNDER GUARANTEE-NOTE F ............ $27,640,835
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital               $2,883,975,623
[ 491



APPENDIX B
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1952 and June 30, 1953
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
July 1-June 30
1951-1952    1952-1953
Income
Interest earned on investments          ..........................  $ 8,500,740   $ 9,245,538
Income from loans:
Interest.. .                                                                    23,669,009 29,983,062
Commitment charges..                                                             2,838,343 3,366,376
Commissions..                                                                    7,558,906 9,551,822
Service charges ....    ..80,203  99,879
Other income.                                                                        100,449       144,352
Gross Income          $42,747,650   $52,391,029
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commissions appropriated to Special Reserve-
NOTE E..                                                                         7,558,906 9,551,822
Gross Income Less Reserve Deduction         $35,188,744 $42,839,207
Expenses
Administrative expenses:
Personal services..                                                            $ 3,132,058 $ 3,373,732
Expense allowance-Executive Directors and Alternates       .        ..........       5,144           775
Fees and compensation   ..................................................         318,832       317,772
Representation .........                                                            56,092  61,178
Travel ..............................................................5 38,211                    843,360
Supplies and material             ...........................                       42,574        33,636
Rents and utility services... .                                                    397,770  432,430
Communication services              ..........................                     114,332       111,476
Furniture and equipment .........33,586                                                           26,241
Motor vehicles..                                                                     4,907  5,646
Books and library services            ........................                      69,463        71,720
Printing .....                                                                      67,765  67,946
Contributions to staff benefits..                                                  336,559  344,394
Insurance ..............................................................            16,704        31,864
Handling and storage of gold            .......................                      2,080
Other expenses .........................................................             1,281         2,100
Total Administrative Expenses ...  $ 5,137,358   $ 5,724,270
Interest on bonds .........................................................    11,793,631    16,208,117
Bond issuance and other financial expenses-NOTE I        .       ..............    2,346,692      2,421,409
Exchange adjustments..                                                                38,180
Gross Expenses       $19,315,861 $24,353,796
Net Income-Appropriated to Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans
and Guarantees-NOTE G.                                                       $15,872,883 $18,485,411
[ 50]



APPENDIX C
Statement of Currencis Held by the Bank-June 30, 1953
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Amount Expressed                                     Total Expressed
Unit of             In Member Currency                                     in Ulnited States
Currency                 (Restricted)            Rate of Exchange               Dollars
Member Currencies
Australia                        Pound                          156,494            $ =      0.4464               $    350,546
Austria                          Schilling                    4,390,500            $ =     26.00                      168,865
Belgium                          Franc                        13,233,381           $ =     50.00                      264,668
Bolivia                          Boliviano                      710,308            S =    190.00                        3,739
Brazil                           Cruzeiro                    348,509,769           $ =     18.50                    18,838,366
Burma                            Kyat                           113,263            $ =      4.7619                     23,785
Canada                           Dollar                        4,052,654           $ =      1.10                     3,684,231
Ceylon                           Rupee                          117,284            $ =      4.7619                     24,630
Chile                            Peso                        194,101,453           $ =     31.00                     6,261,337
China                            Gold Yuan                    21,550,341           $ =     20.00                     1,077,517
Colombia                         Peso                         12,203,444           $ =      1.950                    6,258,237
Costa Rica                       Col6n                         1,996,515           $ =      5.615                     355,568
Cuba                             Peso                            56,949            $ =      1.00                       56,949
Czechoslovakia                   Koruna                       10,980,338           $ =     50.00                      219,607
Denmark                          Krone                         1,174,077           $ =      6.90714                   169,980
Dominican Republic               Peso                               982            $ =      1.00                          982
Ecuador                          Sucre                         8,583,456           $ =     15.00                      572,230
Egypt                            Pound                           20,790            $ =      0.3482                     59,699
El Salvador                      Col6n                          436,428            $ =      2.50                      174,571
Erhiopia                         Dollar                        1,283,760           $ =      2.4845                    516,713
Finland                          Markka                    1,572,124,313           $ =    230.00                     6,835,323
France                           Franc                     1,855,573,111           $ =    349.60                     5,307,703
Germany                          Mark                          2,558,594           $ =      4.20                      609,189
Greece                           Drachma                  22,500,000,000           $ =  5,000.00                     4,500,000
Guatemala                        Quetzal                        349,750            $ =      1.00                      349,750
Honduras                         Lempira                        355,400            $ =      2.00                      177,700
Iceland                          Kr6na                         2,865,709           $ =     16.2857                    175,965
India                            Rupee                         3,092,189           $ =      4.7619                    649,360
Iran                             Rial                          1,290,158           $ =     32.25                       40,005
Iraq                             Dinar                            2,720            $ =      0.3571                      7,616
Italy                            Lira                         13,069,669           $ =    350.00                       37,342
Japan                            Yen                         159,488,280           $ =    360.00                      443,023
Jordan                           Dinar                            1,697            $ =      0.3571                       4,752
Lebanon                          Pound                         1,745,589           $ =      2.1915                    796,534
Luxembourg                       Franc                          670,735            $ =     50.00                       13,415
Mexico                           Peso                        100,275,487           $ =      8.65                    11,592,542
Netherlands                      Guilder                        761,236            $ =      3.80                      200,325
Nicaragua                        C6rdoba                        660,383            $        5.00                      132,077
Norway                           Krone                         1,174,049           $ =      7.1429                    164,367
Pakistan                         Rupee                          484,660            $ =      3.3085                    146,488
Panama                           Balboa                          30,595            $ =      1.00                       30,595
Paraguay                         Guarani                       1,293,287           $ =      6.00                      215,548
Peru                             Sol                            163,489            $        6.50                       25,152
Philippine Republic              Peso                         2,376,584            $        2.00                     1,188,292
Sweden                           Krona                       90,655,160            $ =      5.1732                 17,523,967
Syria                            Pound                           40,835            $ =      2.1915                     18,633
Thailand                         Baht                            86,997            $ =     12.50                        6,960
Turkey                           Lira                            49,798            $ =      2.80                       17,785
Union of South Africa            Pound                          253,317            $ =      0.3571                    709,288
Unired Kingdom                   Pound                          252,434            $ =      0.3571                    706,816
United States                    Dollar                         116,308            $ =                                116,308
Uruguay                          Peso                         2,825,818            $ =      1.519                   1,860,254
Venezuela                        Bolivar                      4,563,097            $ =      3.35                     1,362,119
Yugoslavia                       Dinar                     2,155,321,302           $ =    300.00                    7,184,404
Restricted Currency (NOTE B)                                                        $102,231,817
Unrestricted Currency (Belgium, Canada, United Kingdom and United States)              5,890,196
$108,122,013
Non-Member Currency (Switzerland)                                                                                      14,856,599
Total          $122,978,612
[ 51 ]



APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power
June 30, 1953
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Amounts Paid in                      Amounts
Required to
In Currency of  Non-Interest-      Maintain                 Subject to
Subscriptions                      Member Other Bearing, Non-           Value of              Call to Meet
Than United    Negotiable         Cerrency   Amounts   Obligations    Nuimber
Amount       United States  States Dollars Demand Notes         Holdinzgs     Due         of Bank          of
Member        Shares      (Note J)        Dollars         (NVote B)       (Note B)         (Note B)   (Note C)    (Note H)          Votes
Australia         2,000   $ 200,000,000    $  4,000,000    $   360,368    $ 35,639,632       $   -        $-       $ 160,000,000       2,250
Austria             500      50,000,CCO       1,000,000         183,633       8,816,367         -          -          40,000,000        750
Belgium           2,250     225,000,000       4,500,000       3,844,422      36,655,578         -          -         180,000,000       2,500
Bolivia              70       7,COO,000         140,000           4,500         393,916        861,584     -           5,600,000        320
Brazil            1,050     105,COO,000       2,100,000      1S,900,COO           -             -          -          84,000,00O       1,300
Burma               150      15,000,000         300,coo          27,000       2,673,000         -                     12,000,000        400
Canada            3,250     325,000,000       6,500,000      27,053,182      31,446,S18                    -         260,000,000       3,500
Ceylon              150      15,0CO,000         300,000          32,997       2,667,603         -                     12,000,000        400
Chile               350      35,000,000         700,000       6,300,000           -              -          -         28,000,000        600
China             6,000     600,000,000       9,080,000       1,080,000     106,920,000         -        2,920,000   480,000,000       6,250
Colombia            350      35,000,000         700,000       6,300,000           -              -          -         28,000,000        600
Costa Rica           20       2,000,000          40,000         360,000           -              --         -          1,600,000        270
Cuba                350      35,000,000         700,000          63,000       6,237,000                     -         28,000,000        600
Czechoslovakia    1,250     125,000,000       1,875,000         225,000      22,275,000                    625,000   100,000,000       1,500
Denmark             680      68,000,000       1,360,000         991,066      11,248,934          -          -         54,400,000         930
Dominican
Rep blic           20       2,000,000          40,000           3,600         356,400          -          -          1,6C0,000         270
Ecuador              32       3,200,000          64,000         576,000           -              -                     2,560,000         282
Egypt               533      53,300,000       1,066,000          95,940       9,498,060          -          -         42,640,000         783
El Salvador          10       1,000,000          20,000         180,000           -                         -            800,000         260
Ethiopia             30       3,000,000          60,0C0         540,000                          -          -          2,400,000         280
Finland             380      38,000,000         760,000       6,840,000           -              -          -         30,400,000         630
France            5,250     525,0CO,000      10,500,000      15,781,464      78,718,536          -                   420,000,000       5,500
Germany           3,300     330,0C0,000       6,600,000         614,286      58,785,714          --         -        264,000,000       3,550
Greece              250      25,000,000         50,COO       4,500,000           -                         -         20,000,000         500
Guatemala            20       2,0C3,000          40,000         360,000           -               -        -           1,600,000         270
Honduras             10       1,0C0,0C0          20,000         180,000           -              -          -            800,000         260
Iceland              10       1,0^3,000          20,000         180,000           -                         -            800,000         260
India             4,000     400,0 00          8,000,000         721,S00      71,27S,200          -          -        320,000,000       4,250
Iran                336      33,600,000         672,000          60,480       5,987,520          -          -         26,880,000         586
Iraq                 60       6,000,000         120,000          20,SS0       1,059,120          -          -          4,800,000         310
Italv             1,S00    918,000,C00        3,600,0C0       2,257,143      30,142,857          -          -        144,0CO,000       2,050
Japan             2,500      250,00,C030       5,000,003        450,000       44,550,000         -          -         200,000,000      2,750
Jordan               30        3,000,000         60,000           5,400         534,600          ---                   2,40O,000         280
Lebanon              45       4,500,000          90,000         810,003                                                3,600,000         295
Luxembourg         1C0        10,G00',000       200,000          18,000       1,782,000          -          -          8,O00,00O        350
Mexico              650      65,0CO,000       1,300,000      11,700,000          -               -         -          52,000,000        900
Netherlands       2,750     275,0CC,000       5,500,000         552,632      48,947,368          -          -        220,000,000       3,000
Nicaragua             8         8C0,0O0          16,000         144,000                                                  640j000        258
Norway              500      50,0CC,OC0       1,000,000         272,000       8,728,000          -          -         40,000,000        750
Pakistan          1,000     l00,00C,000       2,0C0,000         180,003      17,819,992          --         --        80,000,O00       1,250
Panama                2         200,C00           4,000          36,000           -              -         -             160,000        252
Paraguay             14       1,40C,C00          28,C00         252,000           -              -          -          1,120,000        264
Peru                175      17,500,000         350,000          62,269       3,087,731          -          -         14,000,000        425
Philippines         150      15,C0O,C00         300,000       1,200,000       1,500,000          -          --        12,030,000         400
Swedeni           1,000      100,CC0,C00      2,000,030      18,000,000           -              -                    80,000,000       1,250
Syria                65       6,500,C00         130,000          43,642       1,126,358          -          -          5,200,000         315
Thailand            125      12,500,000         250,000          32,500       2,217,500          -          -         10,000,000         375
Turkev              430      43,0CO,000         860,C00          77,400       7,662,600          -          -         34,400,000         680
Union of
South Africa    1,000     100,000,000       2,000,000       2,140,000      15,860,000         -           -         80,000,000       1,250
United Kingdom   13,000    1,300,030,000     26,000,000       5,940,000     228,060,000          -          -       1,040,000,000     13,250
United States    31,750    3,175,000,000    635,003,000           -               -              -          -       2,540,030,000     32,000
Uruguay             105      10,500,000         210,000       1,890,000           -                         -          8,400,000         355
Venezuela           105      10,500,000         210,030       1,365,000         525,000          -          -          8,400,000         355
Yugoslavia          400      40,000,000         800,000       7,200,000           -              -          -         32,000,000         650
90,365 $9,036,500,000   $748,685,000   $151,007,612   $903,200,804    $861,584 $3,545,000 $7,229,200,000    103,865
[ 52 ]



APPENDIX E
Funded Debt of the Bank-June 30, 1953
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Principal           Annual Sinking
Issue and Maturity                               Outstanding          Fund Requirement
Payable in United States Dollars
2% Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1954-62                       $ 90,000,000             None
31 7% Nineteen Year Bonds of 1952,                                            1957-66    $2,000,000
due 1971                                                   60,000,000       1967-70    $2,500,000
3% Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1947,                                            1958-62    $3,000,000
due 1972                                                  150,000,000       1963-67    $4,500,000
1968-72    $7,500,000
3s8% Twenty-Three Year Bonds of 1952,                                         1958       $1,000,000
due 1975                                                   50,000,000       1959-74    $1,500,000
3%O Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1951,                                           1963       $1,000,000
due 1976                                                   50,000,000       1964-75    $2,000,000
314% Thirty Year Bonds of 1951,                                               1966-67    $2,000,000
due 1981                                                  100,000,000       1968-73    $3,000,000
1974-80    $4,000,000
Sub-Total        $500,000,000
Payable in Canactianz Dollars
4% Ten Year Bonds of 1952, due 1962                                           1955-60 Can $700,000
(Can $15,000,000)                                        $ 13,636,364       1961   Can $800,000
Payable in Pounds Sterling
312% Twenty Year Stock of 1951,
due 1971 (£5,000,000)                                    $ 14,060,000       1957-71     £166,700
Payable in Swiss Francs
2'27% Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1953-56
(Sw fr 23,500,000)                                       $  5,468,296             None
3'2%0 Ten Year Bonds of 1952, due 1962
(Sw fr 50,000,000)                                         11,634,671             None
3Y2%G Twelve Year Bonds of 1951, due 1963
(Sw fr 50,000,000)                                         11,634,671             None
Sub-Total        $ 28,737,638
Gross Total      $556,374,002
Each issue, except the 2% Serial Bonds of 1950, is subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of
the Bank at varying prices and upon the conditions stated in the respective bonds. The amounts shown as annual
sinking fund requirements are the principal amounts of bonds to be purchased or redeemed to meet each vear's
requirerment, except that in the case of the 3123% Twenty Year Stock of 1951 the amrount shown is the amount
of funds to be pfovided annually for purchase or redemption.
The followin,g table shows the aggregate principal amount of the maturities and sinking fund requirements
of the debt each year for the five years following June 30, 1953:
Yea; Ending Juam 30                            Amoant
1954.......                           $12,326,934
1955.......                            12,614,258
1956...........                        11,799,831
1957.......                            11,103,124
1958.......                            14,103,124
Total ....    $61,947,271
On June 3, 1953 the Bank entered into an agreement with its Swiss banking group for the issuance of 31 2%
bonds in the aggregate principal amount of Swiss francs 50,000,000. The bonds will be dated July 1, 1953 and
will mature July 1, 1968. They were offered to the public from June 10 through June 16 and payment is to be made
by the banking group to the Bank on July 1, 1953.
[53 ]



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loan.
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENC2
Loan                                                                                            Date of
Numynber    Borrower and Guarantor                             Program or Project             Loan Agreement    Maturltfi
29 AU    Australia                                Equipment and materials for development    Aug. 22, 1950   1955-197'
66 AU                                             Equipment and materials for development   July  8, 1952   1957-197T
14 BE    Belgium                                 Equipment for steel and power industries    Mar.  1, 1949   1953-196c-
48 BE                                             Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
velopment Plan of the Belgian Congo      Sept. 13, 1951   1957-197(
Belgium (Guarantor)
47 BE      Belgian Congo                          Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
velopment Plan of the Belgian Congo      Sept. 13, 1951   1957-197C
65 BR    BraZil                                   Railway rehabilitation                     June 27, 1952   1955-196.
*75 BR                                             Highway maintenance and improvement        April 30, 1953   1954-195'
Brazil (Guarantor)
11 BR      Brazilian Traction (First Installment)   Electric power development and telephone
equipment                                Jan. 27, 1949   1953-197
11 BR-S    Brazilian Traction (Second Installment) Electric power development                Jan.  18, 1951   1955-197i
25 BR      Sao Francisco Hidro E1ec. Co.          Electric power development                 May 26, 1950   1954-197
64 BR      Comissao Estadual de Energia Eletrica  Electric power development                 June 27, 1952   1957-19/
Chile (Guarantor)
5 CH      Fomento and Endesa                     Electric power development                 Mar. 25, 1948   1953-196:
6 CH      Fomento                                Agricultural development                   Mar. 25, 1948   1950-195
49 CH      Fomento                                Exploration and use for irrigation of under-               t'0_
ground water resources                   Oct. 10, 1951   1955-196
43 CO    Colombia                                 Highway construction and rehabilitation    Apr. 10, 1951   1954-196
68 CO                                             National railways project                  Aug. 26, 1952   1957-197:
Colombia (Guarantor)
18 CO      Caja de Crcdito                        Agricultural development                   Aug. 19, 1949   1952-195.
38 CO      CHIDRAL                                Electric power development                 Nov.  2, 1950   1954-1971
39 CO      Caldas Hidro-Elec. Co.                 Electric power development                 Dec. 28, 1950   1952-197
54 CO      Hidroclectrica del Rio Lebrija         Electric power development                 Nov. 13, 1951   1954-197.
3 DE    Denmark                                  Equipment and materials for reconstruction
and development                          Aug. 22, 1947   1953-197:
El Salvador (Guarantor)
22 ES      Comisi6n del Rio Lempa                Electric power development                  Dec. 14, 1949   1954-197
31 ET    Ethiopia                                 Highway rehabilitation                     Sept. 13, 1950   1956-197-
32 ET                                             Foreign exchange for Development Bank      Sept. 13, 1950   1956-197
*42 ET                                             Rehabilitation and extension of telephone
and telegraph systems                    Feb. 19, 1951   1956-197-
21 FI    Finland                                  Equipment for timber production            Oct. 17, 1949   1950-195-
Finland (Guarantor)
16 Fl      Bank of Finland                       Electric power development and equipment
for wood products industries and lime-
stone powder production                  Aug.  1, 1949   1953-196
61 Fl      Bank of Finland                       Electric power, wood products industries
and agricultural development             Apr. 30, 1952   1955-197(
70 Fl      Bank of Finland                        Electric power, wood products industries
and agricultural development (Supple-
mental Loan Agreement)                   Nov. 13, 1952   1955-197i
[54]



APPENDIX F
June 30, 1953
ee Notes A, D and F of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Interest                                                                                                   Undisbursed
Rate      Original        Loans      Cancellations    Principal    Obligations   Effective Loans    Principal  Balance of
Including    Principal     Not Yet        and       Repayments  of Borrowers    Outstanding    Amount        Effective
"mm!ss!on)    Amount       Effective   Refundings    to Bank    Sold by Bank   Held by Bank   Disbursed      Loans,
414%     $100,000,000  $      -      $            $     -      $     -        $100,000,000  $ 91,297,518  $  8,702,482
4Y4%       50,000,000         -            -                         -          50,000,000    11,226,595    38,773,405
4Y4%0      16,000,000         -            -            -        16,000,000         -         14,011,990     1,988,010
4Y2%       30,000,000         -            -            -            -          30,000,000    16,071,000    13,929,000
4Y270      40,000,000         -            -                         -          40,000,000    21,433,000    18,567,000
4Y8%       12,500,000         -            -                         -          12,500,000        -         12,500,000
414%        3,000,000     3,000,000        -            -            -              -             -             -
412%       75,000,000         -            -            -         3,632,818     71,367,182    73,790,903     1,209,097
414%       15,000,000         -            -            -            -          15,000,000    11,940,522     3,059,478
4Y4%       15,000,000         -            -            -            -          15,000,000    12,320,279     2,679,721
434%       25,000,000         -            -            -            -          25,000,000        -         25,000,000
4'2%       13,500,000         -            -            -            -          13,500,000    11,154,764     2,345,236
334%        2,500,000         -            -          518,000    1,490,000        492,000      2,500,000        -
4Ys%        1,300,000         -            -            -            -           1,300,000       729,158       570,842
3 8%       16,500,000         -            -                       300,000      16,200,000    13,424,984     3,075,016
434%       25,000,000         -            -            -            -          25,000,000     2,808,638    22,191,362
312%        5,000,000         -           74,559      500,000    2,000,000       2,425,441     4,925,441        -
4%         3,530,000         -            -            -           73,000       3,457,000     2,805,546       724,454
4%         2,600,000         -            -           46,000      144,000       2,410,000     2,584,013        15,987
4Y2%        2,400,000         -            -            -           42,000       2,358,000     1,890,151       509,849
414%       40,000,000          -           -          599,000      619,000      38,782,000    40,000,000        -
414%       12,545,000         -            -            -         1,000,000     11,545,000    10,508,252     2,036,748
4%         5,000,000         -            -            -            -           5,000,000     4,519,838       480,162
4%c        2,000,000         -            -            -            -           2,000,000      659,279      1,340,721
4%         1,500,000     1,500,000        -            -            -              -             -             -
3%         2,300,000         -          197,869    2,102,131        -              -          2,102,131        -
4%        12,500,000         -            -           63,990    1,559,010      10,877,000    12,187,468       312,532
434%       20,000,000         -            -            -            -          20,000,000     7,693,103    12,306,897
434%        3,479,464         -                         -            -           3,479,464       340,465     3,138,999
(Continued)
[55 ]



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loan
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENG
Loan                                                                                            Date of
NuAmber     Borrower and Guarantor                             Program or Project             Loan Agreement   AMaturif--
France (Guarantor)
1 FR      Cr&dit National                       Equipment and mnaterials for reconstruction
and development                          May  9, 1947   1952-19/
46 IC    Iceland                                 Electric power development                  June 20, 1951   1956-197
53 IC                                             Agricultural development                   Nov.  1, 1951   1956-197
69 IC                                             Fertilizer plant                           Aug. 26, 1952   1954-196
17 IN    India                                    Railway rehabilitation                     Aug. 18, 1949   1950-196
19 IN                                             Agricultural development                   Sept. 29, 1949   1952-195
23 IN                                             Electric power development                 Apr. 18, 1950   1955-197
*72 IN                                             Electric power development, flood control
and irrigation                          Jan.  23, 1953   1956-19,
India (Guarantor)
*71 IN      Indian Iron & Steel Company            Expansion  of iron and steel production
facilities                               Dec. 18, 1952   1959-19(
26 IRQ   Iraq                                     Construction of a flood control project    June  15, 1950   1956-19(
Italy (Guarantor)
50 IT      Cassa per Il Mezzogiorno               Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
velopment Plan of Southern Italy         Oct. 10, 1951   1956-19
4 LU    Luxembourg                               Equipment for steel mill and railroads     Aug. 28, 1947   1949-19
Mexico (Guarantor)
12 ME       Financiera and Comisi6n               Electric power development                 Jan.   6, 1949   1953-19
13 ME       Financiera and Comisi6n               Electric power development                 Jan.   6, 1949 July 1, 19:
24 ME       Mexican Light and Power Co. Ltd.    Electric power development                   Apr. 28, 1950   1953-19
33 ME      Consortium of Eight Mexican Banks    Foreign exchange for small private enter-
and Nacional Financiera                 prises                                   Oct. 18, 1950   1952-19:
56 ME      Financiera and Comision                Electric power development                 Tan.  11, 1952   1955-19.
2 NE    Netherlands                              Equipment and materials for reconstruction
and development                          Aug.  7, 1947   1954-19
2a NE                                             Equipment and materials for reconstruction
and development (Supplemental Loan
Agreement)                               May 25, 1948   1953-192
Netherlands (Guarantor)
7, 7a NE   N.V. Stoomvaart Mij. "Nederland"    Purchase of S.S. Raki and S.S. Roebiah        July  15, 1948   1949-192
8 NE      N.V. Vereenigde Schvrt. Mij.           Purchase of S.S. Almkerk                   July  15, 1948   1949-192
9 NE      N.V. Ned.-Amer. Stoomvaart-Mij.        Purchase of S.S. Alblasserdijk             July  15, 1948   1949-192
"Holland-Amerika Lijn"
10, 1Ca    N.V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd               Purchase of S.S. Friesland and S.S. Drente   July  15, 1948   1949-192
NE
15 NE      Herstelbank                            Equipment for reconstruction and modern-
ization of particular industrial plants  July  26, 1949   1952-19(
59 NE      KLM Royal Dutch Airlines               Purchase of Aircraft                       Mar. 20, 1952   1954-192
45 NI    Nicaragua                                Highway construction                       June  7, 1951   1954-19(
52 NI                                             Construction of grain storage facilities   Oct. 29, 1951   1954-19(
Nicaraguza (Guarantor)
44 NI      Banco Nacional de Nicaragua            Agricultural development                   June   7, 1951   1954-19'
60 PAK  Pakistan                                  Railway rehabilitation                     Mar. 27, 1952   1954-19t
*62 PAK                                            Agricultural development                   June  13, 1952   1954-19'
[561



APPENDIX F
June 30, 1953 (Continued)
See Notes A, D and F of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Interest                                                                                                    Undisbarsed
Rate       Original       Loans      Cancellations    Principal    Obligations   Effective Loans    Principal  Balance of
(Including    Principal    Not Yet         and       Repayments  of Borrowers    Outstanding    Amount        Effective
Commission)    Amournt      Effective    Refunadings    to Bank   Sold by Bank   Held by Bank   Disbursed       Loans'
4Y4%    $ 250,000,000   $     -      $     -       $    -       $ 6,772,000  $ 243,228,000  $250,000,000  $       -
4Ys%         2,450,000        -            -             -            -           2,450,000     2,063,347       386,653
412%         1,008,000        -            -             -                        1,008,000     1,008,000         -
434%          854,000         -            -             -                          854,000       362,659       491,341
4%        34,000,000         -         1,200,000    4,087,759    4,581,847      24,130,394    32,800,000         -
312%        10,000,000        -         2,500,000      850,000    3,355,000       3,295,000     5,340,326     2,159,674
4%        18,500,000         -            -             -            -          18,500,000    13,733,086     4,766,914
47H%        19,500,000    19,500,000                                                 -      -              -
434%       31,500,000    31,500,000                                   -
334%        12,800,000        -                                                  12,800,000     5,513,345     7,286,655
4Y2%        10,000,000        -            -             -            -          10,000,000     8,248,642      1,751,358
414%        12,000,000        -           238,017      187,983     1,678,000      9,896,000    11,761,983         -
412%       24,100,000         -            -           393,000    1,135,300      22,571,700    19,972,234      4,127,766
412%       10,000,000         -        10,000,000(Refunding--                        -                            -
4Y2%       26,000,000         -            -             -          606,000      25,394,000    24,664,757      1,335,243
3Y2% o      10000,000         -         9,467,641       99,778        -             432,581       493,699        38,660
412%       29,700,000         -            -             -            -          29,700,000     8,936,243    20,763,757
414%       191,044,212        -            -             -         2,265,000    188,779,212   191,044,212         -
4Y4%         3,955,788        -            -             -         3,955,788         -          3,955,788
3Y16%       4,000,000         -            -             -         4,000,000         -          4,0CO,000         -
3Y16%       2,000,000         -            -             -         2,000,000         -          2,000,000         -
3Y'6%        2,000,000        -            -             -         2,000,000         -          2,000,000         -
3V16%       4,000,000         -            -             -         4,000,000         -          4,000,000         -
4%         15,000,000        -         7,070,000      275,669     1,749,331      5,905,000     7,176,277       753,723
41Ys%        7,000,000        -            -             -         3,500,000      3,500,000     3,767,134     3,232,866
41 V%        3,500,000        -            -             -            -           3,500,000     1,499,618     2,000,382
43 8%         550,000         -                          -            -             550,000       523,918        26,082
4%          1,200,000        -            -           245,000        -            955,000      1,132,911        67,089
4Y8%        27,200,000        -            -             -          550,000      26,650,000     6,548,267    20,651,733
41 V%        3,250,000     3,250,000       -             -            (2)            -             -              -
(Continued)
[57 



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loans
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
Loan                                                                                                        Date of
Nember        Borrower and Guarantor                                    Program or Project                Loan Agreement    Maturities
55 PA      Paraguay                                     Agricultural development                         Dec.  7, 1951   1954-1960
57 PE      Peru                                         Port development                                 Jan.  23, 1952   1954-1967
67 PE                                                   Agricultural development                         July   8, 1952   1954-1959
40 SA      South Africa                                 Expansion of transport facilities                Jan.  23, 1951   1956-1965
South Africa (Guarantor)
41 SA        Electricity Supply Commission              Electric power development                       Jan.  23, 1951   1954-1970
35 TH      Thailand                                     Railway rehabilitation                           Oct. 27, 1950   1954-1966
36 TH                                                   Irrigation                                       Oct. 27, 1950   1956-1971
37 TH                                                   Port construction and development                Oct. 27, 1950   1954-1966
27 TU      Turkey                                       Construction of grain storage facilities         July   7, 1950   1954-1968
28 TU                                                   Port construction and development                July   7, 1950   1956-1975
63 TU                                                   Electric power development, irrigation and
flood control                                 June  18, 1952   1957-1977
Turkey (Guarantor)
34 TU        Industrial Development Bank of Turkey Foreign exchange for development of private
industry                                      Oct.  19, 1950   1957-1965
United Kingdom (Guarantor)
58 SR        Southern Rhodesia                          Electric power development                        Feb. 27, 1952   1956-1977
74 NR        Northern Rhodesia                          Railway development                               Mar. 11, 1953   1956-1972
Uruguay (Guarantor)
30 UR        U. T. E.                                   Electric power development and telephone
equipment                                     Aug. 25, 1950   1955-1974
20 YU    Yugoslavia                                     Equipment for timber production                   Oct.  17, 1949   1950-1951
51 YU                                                   Equipment for electric power, coal mining,
non-ferrous metal development, industry,
forest products, agriculture and fishery,
and transportation projects                   Oct.  11, 1951   1955-1976
73 YU                                                   Expansion  of electric power, mining, in-
dustry, forestry and transportation           Feb.  11, 1953   1956-1978
TOTAL LOANS GRANTED
* Denotes Loans Not Yet Effective.
Of the Undisbursed Balance of Effective Loans, the following amounts have been irrevocably committed by the Bank:
Loan                                                                                Amount Expressed in
Number               Borrower                              To Whom Committed        United States Currency
11 BR           Brazilian Traction (First Installment-Brazil)  To Borrowver             $ 1,209,097
11 BR-S         Brazilian Traction (Second Installment-Brazil)  To Borrower                1,315,068
5 CH           Fomento and Endesa (Chile)                   To Third Parties                198,124
38 CO           Central Hidroelectrica del Rio
Anchicaya Limitada (Colombia)              To Third Parties                 66,725
54 CO           Central Hidroclectrica del Rio
Lebrija, Limitada (Colombia)               To Third Parties                237,792
32 ET           Ethiopia (Development Bank Project)          To Third Parties
16 FI           Bank of Finland (Finland)                    To Third Parties                  5,575
61 FI           Bank of Finland (Finland)                    To Third Parties              1,032,928
26 IRQ          Iraq                                         To Third Parties                149,271
36 TH           Thailand (Irrigation Project)                To Third Parties                  2,946
27 TU           Turkey (Grain Storage Project)               To Third Parties                973,341
28 TU           Turkey (Port Project)                        To Third Parties              2,375,487
34 TU           Industrial Development Bank (Turkey)         To Third Parties                 62,091
63 TU           Turkey (Seyhan Project)                      To Third Parties              1,451,304
30 UR           U. T. E. (Uruguay)                           To Third Parties              1,785,393
51 YU           Yugoslavia                                   To Third Parties              9,071,152
73 YU           Yugoslavia                                   To Third Parties               5,975,994
$25,912,288
2 Two American firms will participate in Loan Number 62 Pakistan to the extent of $498,500 each.
s The amount of currency repayable may differ from the amount of currency disbursed as a result of the purchase of one currency with another for purpose of dis-
bursement. The currency used to make the purchase is the currency repayable. The amount of currency disbursed does not represent total purchases in the country
whose currency is indicated.
[58]



APPENDIX F
June 30, 1953 (Continued)
Notes A, D and F of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Interest                                                                                                        Undisbursed
Rate       Original        Loans      Cancellations    Principal   Obligations   Eflective Loans    Principal   Balance of
1ncluding    Principal     Not Yet         and        Repayments   of Borrowers    Outstanding     Amount         Effective
_- nsion)    Amount       Effective    Refundings      to Bank    Sold by Bank   Held by Bank    Disbursed        Loans,
43 s%    $   5,000,000  $      -    $        -      $      -      $             $   5,000,000  $    699,838   $  4,300,162
4Y2%         2,500,000         -             -                           -           2,500,000        972,818      1,527,182
4 18%o       1,300,000                                                               1,300,000      1,068,635        231,365
334%        20,000,000                       -             -             --         20,000,000     20,000,000         -
4%o        30,000,000         -             -             -           624,560      29,375,440     25,149,903      4,850,097
334%         3,000,000         -             -             -            95,000       2,905,000      1,479,672      1,520,328
4%o        18,000,000         -             -             -             -          18,000,000     13,187,097      4,812,903
334%         4,400,000         -             -             -           275,000       4,125,000      2,062,653      2,337,347
3 Y8%o       3,900,000         _             _             _            12,000       3,888,000      1,219,519      2,680,481
414%        12,500,000         -             -             -             -          12,500,000      2,909,054      9,590,946
4%4%        25,200,000         -             -             -                        25,200,000      1,257,804     23,942,196
334%         9,000,000         _             -             -                         9,000,000      2,103,400      6,896,600
434if%      28,000,000                       -                           -          28,000,000     10,634,784     17,365,216
434%        14,000,000         -             -             -             -          14,000,000         -          14,000,000
414%        33,000,000         -             _             _             -          33,000,000     10,603,244     22,396,756
3%          2,700,000         -             -         2,700,000        -               -           2,700,000         -
4Y2%        28,000,000         -                           -                        28,000,000     17,533,003     10,466,997
478%        30,000,000         -             -                    -                 30,000,000      4,208,207     25,791,793
$1,590,766,464  $58,750,000   $30,748,086   $12,668,310  $70,014,654  $1,418,585,414 $1,103,261,115  $398,007,263
Less exchange adjustment          1,642,337
1,416,943,077
SUMMARY BY CURRENCY
(Expressed in United States Currency)
Amount            Amount         Amount Recovered  Principal Balance
Currency                  Disbursed3         Repayables    by Repayment or Sale   Outstanding
Austrian Schillings          $      13,963  '   $     13,963      $      -           $     13,963
Belgian Francs                  29,497,559          4,198,816          529,963           3,668,853
Canadian Dollars                 51,173,999        39,328,696         4,520,866         34,807,830
Danish Kroner                    1,089,629           831,357             -                831,357
French Francs                    11,308,374        10,440,746            -              10,440,746
German Marks                     6,629,360            -                  -                 -
Italian Lire                     3,452,602          2,087,986            -               2,087,986
Netherlands Guilders             2,262,357           268,816             -                268,816
Norwegian Kroner                   191,006           106,788             -                106,788
South African Pounds             1,430,115          1,430,115            -               1,430,115
Swedish Kronor                   4,218,827           490,465             -                490,465
Swiss Francs                    18,704,807         19,424,917         6,857,974         12,566,943
United Kingdom Pounds           59,974,341         10,102,030            -              10,102,030
United States Dollars           913,314,176      1,014,536,420       70,774,161        943,762,259
$1,103,261,115    $1,103,261,115      $ 82,682,964       $1,020,578,151
Plus-Undisbursed Balance of Effective Loans       398,007,263
$1,418,585,414
[59]



APPENDIX G
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1953
NOTE A                                                 with designated depositories in the territories of the
Amounts in currencies other than United States    respective member.
dollars have been translated into United States dollars:    Article II, Section 9 provides for the maintenance
of value of such 18% currencies as follows:
( i) In the cases of 44 members, at the pat
values established under the International Mone-          (a) Whenever (i) the par value of a members
tary Fund Agreement as specified in the most recent    currency is reduced, or (ii) the foreign exchange
issue of "Schedule of Par Values" dated May 15         value of a member's currency has, in the opinion
1953, and published by the International Monetary      Of the Bank, debpreciatedritories, the  member shall
Fund; and                                              wti  htmme' ertre,temme  hl
pay to the Bank within a reasonable time an
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 10 members        additional amount of its own currency sufficient to
(Burma, Canada, China, France, Greece, Italy,          maintain the value, as of the time of initial sub-
Jordan, Peru, Thailand and Uruguay), the par           scription, of the amount of the currency of such
values of whose currencies are not so specified, at    member which is held by the Bank and derived
the rates used by such members in making capital       from currency originally paid in to the Bank by
payments.                                              the member under Article II, Section 7 (i), from
(iii) In the case of non-member currency, all        currency referred to in Article IV, Section 2 (b),
Swiss francs, at the rate of 4.2975 Swiss francs to    or from any additional currency furnished under
one United States dollar.                              the provisions of the present paragraph, and which
has not been repurchased by the member for gold
On July 24 1953, the Bank received a cable from        or for the currency of any member which is ac-
Statni banka ceskoslovenska stating that in consequence     ceptable to the Bank.
of monetary reform  and a new gold content of the
Czechoslovak koruna the Bank's balances had been con-         (b) Whenever the par value of a member's
verted by them to new currency as of June 1, 1953.          currency is increased, the Bank shall return to
Since the Bank has not received from the Government         such member within a reasonable time an amount
of Czechoslovakia any information or request in respect     of that member's currency equal to the increase in
of such conversion, the Bank's holdings of currency and     the value of the amount of such currency de-
demand notes of Czechoslovakia as shown in Appendix         scribed in (a) above.
C and as reflected in the financial statements do not         (c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs
recognize such conversion.                                  may be waived by the Bank when a uniform pro-
portionate change in the par values of the curren-
so      representation iS made that any of such curren-  cies of all its members is made by the International
CieS iS convertible into any other of such currencies at   Mntr   ud
any rate or rates. See also Note B.                        Monetary Fund.
The equivalent of $861,584 is due from 1 member
NOTE B                                                 in order to maintain the value of its currency as re-
quired under Article II, Section 9.
These currencies and notes are derived from the
18%  of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the  NOTE C
Bank which is payable in the currencies of the respec-
tive members. Such 18% may be loaned by the Bank,           Under Article II, Section 8 (a) (i), any original
and funds received by the Bank on account of principal    member of the Bank whose metropolitan territories
of loans made by the Bank out of such currencies may   suffered from  enemy occupation or hostilities during
be exchanged for other currencies or reloaned, only    World War II had a right to postpone payment of
with the approval in each case of the member whose     12 of 1% of the amount of its subscription payable in
currency is involved; provided, however, that, if neces-    gold or United States dollars until June 25, 1951. All
sary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is entirely  members who received such a postponement have made
called, such currencies may, without restriction by the  payment in full except China and Czechoslovakia.
members whose currencies are offered, be used or       China has made payments totalling $80,000 and has
exchanged for the currencies required to meet con-    stated that it recognized its obligation to the Bank and
tractual payments of interest, other charges or amortiza-  would pay the balance of $2,920,000 as soon as it was in
tion on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the       a position to do so.  Czechoslovakia has claimed a
Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual payments    further postponement under Article II, Section 8 (a)
on loans guaranteed by it. These currencies of the     (ii). On August 21, 1951, the Executive Directors re-
several members, and the notes issued by them for any  jected such claim. The Executive Directors thereafter
part of such currencies, as permitted under the pro-    reported such action to the Board of Governors which,
visions of Article V, Section 12, are held on deposit    on September 13, 1951, approved such report.
[60 1



APPENDIX G
NOTE D                                                NOTE G
The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans      Pursuant to action of the Board of Governors and
and the accrued charges for interest, commitment fee,    Executive Directors the net income of the Bank has
service charge and loan commission are receivable in    been allocated to a Supplemental Reserve Against
United States dollars except the following amounts for    Losses on Loans and Guarantees Made by the Bank;
which the dollar equivalent is shown:                 and the future net income of the Bank will, until further
Principal Outstanding       $76,815,892          action by the Executive Directors or the Board of
Accrued Interest, Commitment                     Governors, be allocated to this reserve.
and Service Charges          539,558
Accrued Loan Commissions        127,869          NOTE H
Total  $77,483,319       Subject to call by the Bank only when required
Total                   $77,483,319          to meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrow-
NOTE E                                                 ing or guaranteeing loans.
The amount of commissions received by the Bank    NOTE I
on loans made or guaranteed by it is required under        The Bank has written off against income all dis-
Article IV, Section 6, to be set aside as a special reserve  count and premium on bonds sold or redeemed in the
to be kept available for meeting obligations ofrespective years in which sale or redemption occurred.
Bank created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans.
On all loans granted to date the effective rate of com-
mission is 1%  per annum.                              NOTE J
In terms of United States dollars of the weight
NOTE F                                                 and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
The Bank has sold under its guarantee $49,803,146
of borrowers' obligations received by the Bank in con-    GENERAL
nection with its loan operations of which amount a         Applications for membership from Indonesia, with
total of $20,174,301 has been retired.  Of the total    a subscription of $110 million, and Haiti, with a sub-
of $29,628,845 of obligations outstanding under guar-    scription of $2 million, were approved by the Board
antee $1,988,010 is reflected in the balance sheet as    of Governors at the Seventh Annual Meeting. These
a direct liability subject to withdrawal. The following  countries have until September 16, 1953 to accept
table shows the aggregate principal amount of these    membership.
obligations maturing in each of the five years following
June 30, 1953:                                         LITIGATION
Year Ending                                            A  suit has been commenced by an individual
June 30                   Amount                plaintiff against the Bank asking damages of approxi-
1954                 $10,778,845              mately $625,000 for alleged interference with plaintiffs
1955                   4,034,000              contractual relationships (Frank H. Redicker v. War-
1956                    1,236,000            field et al., U.S. District Court, Southern District of
1957                    1,282,000             New York, Civil No. 61-210). The Bank has denied
1958                    1,298,000            the substance of the charges contained in the com-
Thereafter             11,000,000             plaint and has been advised by trial counsel that the
Total   $29,628,845             suit is without merit. At June 30, 1953 there was no
other litigation pending against the Bank.
[61]



APPENDIX H
Opinion of Independent Auditor
1000 VERMONT AVENUE, N.W.,
WASHINGTON 5, D.C.
August 3, 1953
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT,
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of
June 30, 1953. Our examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included
such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes
thereto, present fairly the financial position of the Bank at
June 30, 1953, expressed in United States currency, and the results
of its operations for the twelve months then ended, in con-
formity with generally accepted accounting principles applied
on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
PRICE WATERHOUSE & Co.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet-Tune 30, 1953 ..................  APPENDIX A
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses
for the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1952 and
June 30, 1953 ............................  APPENDIX B
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-
June 30, 1953 ............................  APPENDIX C
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and
Voting Power-June 30, 1953 ..............  APPENDIX D
Funded Debt of the Bank-June 30, 1953 .......  APPENDIX E
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1953 .............  APPENDIX F
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1953. . ..  APPENDIX G
[62]



APPENDIX I
Administrative Budget
For the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1954
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1954 as prepared by
the President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. For pur-
poses of comparison there are also outlined below the administrative expenses incurred during the fiscal years
ended June 30, 1952, and 1953.
Actual Expenses                                 Budget 1954
1952                          1953
BOARD OF GOVERNORS                               $  114,220                    $  214,022                      $  121,000
OFFICE OF EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS                                         276,360                       367,506                         380,000
STAFF
Personal Services                  2,759,133                       3,015,174                       3,185,000
Staff Benefits                       320,633                         329,236                         356,000
Consultants                          107,927                         182,467                         150,000
Travel                               378,170                         555,223                         575,000
Representation                        41,833    3,607,696             50,673   4,132,773             50,000   4,316,000
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES
Fees and Compensation                 47,809                          51,522                          69,000
Supplies and Materials                39,676                          32,241                          41,000
Rents and Maintenance                394,868                         427,550                         415,000
Communications                       112,332                         107,069                         107,500
Furniture and Equipment               34,953                          31,225                          30,500
Printing                              39,701                          40,350                          40,000
Books and Library Service             69,375                          71,704                          68,000
Insurance                             16,704                          31,864                          16,000
Other                                  3,361      758,779              2,100    795,625               -         787,000
CONTINGENCY                                           -                             -                             175,000
TOTAL                                    4,757,055                     5,509,926                       5,779,000
SPECIAL SERVICES TO
MEMBER COUNTRIES                                  380,303                       214,344                         300,000
GRAND TOTAL                            $5,137,358                    $5,724,270                      $6,079,000
The initial Administrative Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1953 was $5,712,000; an increase in
this amount to $5,762,000 was approved by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1953.
No estimate has been made of bond registration, issuance and other financial expenditure for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1954. The amount of bonds which may be issued by the Bank during the next year is not known.
These expenditures may amount to about $100,000, exclusive of commissions and premiums, for each $100 million
of bonds which the Bank may issue.
[ 63 ]



APPENDIX J
Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries
As of June 30, 1953
Voting Power                         Subscriptions
Number            Percent             Amount            Percent
MEMBER COUNTRY                                           of Votes          of Total     (in Millions of Dollars)   of Total
Australia ...............................                2,250              2.17               200.0                2.21
Austria .................................                  750               .72                 50.0                .55
Belgium ................................                 2,500              2.41               225.0                2.49
Bolivia .................................                  320               .31                  7.0                .08
Brazil .................................                 1,300              1.25                105.0               1.16
Burma.               .                                     400    .39                            15.0                .17
Canada .................................                 3,500               3.37               325.0               3.60
Ceylon ......... ........................ 400                                 .39                15.0                .17
Chile..                                                    600   .58   35.0   .39
China .................................                  6,250               6.02               600.0               6.64
Colombia ...............................                   600               .58                 35.0                .39
Costa Rica ..............................                  270                .26                 2.0                .02
Cuba .................................                     600               .58                 35.0                .39
Czechoslovakia          .............                    1,500               1.44               125.0               1.38
Denmark..                                                  930   .90    68.0   .75
Dominican Republic           ..........                    270               .26                  2.0                .02
Ecuador ................................                   282                .27                 3.2                .03
Egypt .................................                    783                .75                53.3                .59
El Salvador          ..............                        260                .25                 1.0                .01
Ethiopia ......... . ....................... 280                              .27                 3.0                .03
Finland .................................                  630                .61                38.0                .42
France ................................ 5,500                               5.29               525.0               5.81
Germany..                                                3,550    3.42    330.0    3.65
Greece    .                    .00    .48                                                        25.0    .28
Guatemala..                                                270    .26                             2.0    .02
Honduras ...............................                   260                .25                 1.0                .01
Iceland .................................                  260                .25                 1.0                .01
India... .                                               4,250               4.09               400.0               4.43
Iran......... .                                             586               .56                33.6                .37
Iraq .................................                     310               .30                  6.0                .07
Italy .................................                  2,050               1.97               180.0               1.99
Japan.....                                                2,750              2.65               250.0                2.77
Jordan... .                                                 280               .27                  3.0               .03
Lebanon ................................                   295                .28                 4.5                .05
Luxembourg            ..............                       350                .34                10.0                .11
Mexico ...  ..900                                                             .87                65.0                .72
Netherlands.             .                               3,000               2.89               275.0               3.04
Nicaragua. .                     .                         258                .25                  .8                .01
Norway            .......                                  750                .72                50.0                .55
Pakistan.. .                                              1,250              1.20               100.0               1.11
Panama..                                                   252  .24   .2    *
Paraguay ...............................                   264                .25                 1.4                .01
Peru ................................. 425                                    .41                17.5                .19
Philippines..                                              400    .39                            15.0                .17
Sweden .................................                  1,250              1.20               100.0               1.11
Syria .................................                    315                .30                 6.5                .07
Thailand.              .                                   375                .36                12.5                .14
Turkey .................................                   680                .65                43.0                .48
Union of South Africa.           .                        1,250              1.20               100.0               1.11
United Kingdom.             .                           13,250              12.76             1,300.0              14.39
United States..                                         32,000             30.81              3,175.0              35.13
Uruguay.              .                                    355                .34                10.5                .12
Venezuela..                                                 355    .34    10.5    .12
Yugoslavia.             .                                  650               .63                 40.0                .44
Total..            103,865            100.00              9,036.5             100.00
*Less than .005 percent.
[64 1



APPENDIX K
Governors and Alternates as of June 30, 1953
COUNTRY                           GOVERNOR                           ALTERNATE
AUSTRALIA                          Sir Percy Spender                  Roland Wilson
AUSTRIA                           Reinhard Kamitz                     Wilhelm Teufenstein
BELGIUM                           Albert-Edouard Janssen              Maurice Frere
BOLIVIA                            Augusto Cuadros Sanchez              [Vacant]
BRAZIL                            Horacio Lafer                       Octavio Paranagua
BURMA                             U  Tin                             U San Lin
CANADA                            D. C. Abbott                       John Deutsch
CEYLON                            J. R. Jayewardene                  Sir Claude Corea
CHILE                             Arturo Maschke                     Felipe Herrera
CHINA                             Chia Kan Yen                       Peh-Yuan Hsu
COLOMBIA                          Emilio Toro                        Ignacio Copete-Lizarralde
COSTA RICA                        Angel Coronas                      Mario Fernandez
CUBA                              Luis Machado                       Joaquin E. Meyer
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                    Rudolf Houdek                      Antonin Braidl
DENMARK                           Svend Nielsen                      Hakon Jespersen
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                Jose Ernesto Garcia Aybar          Pedro Pablo Cabral B.
ECUADOR                           Luis Ernesto Borja                 Ramon de Ycaza
EGYPT                             Mohamed Amin Fikry                 A. Nazmy Abdel-Hamid
EL SALVADOR                       Catalino Herrera                    Luis Escalante-Arce
ETHIOPIA                          Jack Bennett                       Ato Menassie Lemma
FINLAND                           Artturi Lehtinen                   Ralf Torngren
FRANCE                            Minister of Finance                Pierre Mendes-France
GERMANY                           Ludwig Erhard                      Fritz Schaeffer
GREECE                            Emmanuel Tsouderos                 George Mantzavinos
GUATEMALA                         Manuel Noriega Morales             Carlos Leonidas Acevedo
HONDURAS                          Rafael Heliodoro Valle             Guillermo Lopez Rodezno
ICELAND                           Jon Arnason                        Thor Thors
INDIA                             Sir Chintaman D. Deshmukh          Sir Benegal Rama Rau
IRAN                              Mohammad Nassiri                   Abbas-Gholi Neysari
IRAQ                              Ibrahim  Shabandar                 Saleh Haidar
ITALY                             Donato Menichella                  Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
JAPAN                             Sankurou Ogasawara                 Hisato Ichimada
JORDAN                            Yusuf Haikal                       Omar Dajany
LEBANON                           Andre Tueni                        Raja Himadeh
LUXEMBOURG                        Pierre Dupong                      Pierre Werner
MEXICO                            Antonio Carrillo Flores            Jose Hernandez Delgado
NETHERLANDS                       J. van de Kieft                    A. M. de Jong
NICARAGUA                         Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa           J. Jesus Sanchez R.
NORWAY                            Gunnar Jahn                        Ole Colbjornsen
PAKISTAN                          Mohamnmad Ali                      Amjad Ali
PANAMA                            Roberto M. Heurtematte             Julio E. Heurtematte
PARAGUAY                          Epifanio Mendez Fleitas            Julio C. Kolberg
PERU                              Fernando Berckemeyer               Carlos Gibson
PHILIPPINES                       Miguel Cuademo Sr.                 Emilio Abello
SWEDEN                            N. G. Lange                        A. Lundgren
SYRIA                             Husni A. Sawwaf                    Rafik Asha
THAILAND                          Serm Vinicchayakul                 Kajit Kasemsri
TURKEY                            Mehmet Izmen                       Munir Mostar
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA             N. C. Havenga                      M. H. de Kock
UNITED KINGDOM                    Richard Austen Butler              Sir Leslie Rowan
UNITED STATES                     George M. Humphrey                 Samuel C. Waugh*
URUGUAY                           Nilo Berchesi                       Roberto Ferber
VENEZUELA                         Manuel Reyna                        Carlos M. Lollet C.
YUGOSLAVIA                        Vido Krunic                         Janvid Flere
Appointed subsequent to June 30, 1953.
[65 1



APPENDIX L
Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power
As of June 30, 1953
VOTES BY        TOTAL
DIRECTORS          ALTERNATES                CASTING THE VOTES OF    COUNTRY              VOTES
Appointed
Andrew N. Overby         John S. Hooker           United States                  32,000         32,000
Sir Edmund Hall-Patch    L. Waight                United Kingdom                 13,250         13,250
Yueh-Lien Chang            [Vacant]               China                           6,250          6,250
Roger Hoppenot           Maurice Perouse*         France                          5,500          5,500
B. K. Nehru              B. R. Shenoy             India                           4,250          4,250
Elected
Luis Machado             Julio E. Heurtematte     Mexico                            900'
(Cuba)                   (Panama)               Cuba                             600
Peru                             425
Uruguay                          355
Venezuela                        355|
Costa Rica                       270,
Dominican Republic               270          4,475
Guatemala                        270
El Salvador                      260
Honduras                         260
Nicaragua                        258
Panama                           252
Johannes Zahn            A. Tasic                 Germany                         3,5505
(Germany)                (Yugoslavia)           Yugoslavia                       650           4,200
Mohammad Shoaib          Ali Asghar Nasser        Pakistan                        1,250
(Pakistan)               (Iran)                 Egypt                            783
Iran                             586
Syria                            315
Iraq                             310          4,099
Lebanon                          295
Ethiopia                         280
Jordan                           280
Cabir Selek              Felice Pick              Italy                           2,050
(Turkey)                 (Italy)                Austria                          750
Turkey                           680          3,980
Greece                           500
Takeo Yumoto             Boonma Wongswan          Japan                           2,7507
(Japan)                  (Thailand)             Burma                             4001
Ceylon                           400          3,925
Thailand                         375
Erling Sveinbjornsson    Reino Rossi              Sweden                          1,250)
(Denmark)                (Finland)              Denmark                          9301
Norway                           750          3,820
Finland                          6301
Iceland                          260
* Temporary
[661



APPENDIX L
Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power
As of June 30, 1953-Continued
VOTES BY        TOTAL
DIRECTORS            ALTERNATES              CASTING THE VOTES OF    COUNTRY              VOTES
Alfonso Fernandez       Jorge Schneider          Brazil                         1,300
(Chile)                 (Chile)                Chile                            600
Colombia                        600
Philippines                     400          3,766
Bolivia                         320
Ecuador                         282
Paraguay                        264
L. G. Melville          L. H. E. Bury            Australia                      2,2503
(Australia)             (Australia)            Union of South Africa          1,250f         3,500
Louis Rasminsky         G. Neil Perry            Canada                         3,500          3,500
(Canada)                (Canada)
D. Crena de Iongh       L. R. W. Soutendijk      Netherlands                    3,000          3,000
(Netherlands)           (Netherlands)
Thomas Basyn            Ernest de Selliers       Belgium                        2,5002
(Belgium)               (Belgium)              Luxembourg                       350J         2,850
Note: Member Country unrepresented by an Executive Director: Czechoslovakia with 1,500 votes.
In addition to the Executive Directors and Alternates shown in the foregoing list, the following also served
as Executive Director or Alternate after November 1, 1952, the effective date of the Fourth Regular Election:
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR                                     End of Period of Service
A. M. de Jong (Netherlands)                               December 31, 1952
ALTERNATE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
Tsoo Whe Chu (China)                                      November 10, 1952
Djahangir Boushehri (Iran)                                November 14, 1952
Jorge del Canto (Chile)                                   February 28, 1953
Nenad D. Popovic (Yugoslavia)                             May 5, 1953
Allan Christelow (United Kingdom)                         May 15, 1953
1 67]



APPENDIX M
Principal Officers of the Bank
As of June 30, 1953
Eugene R. Black ............ President
Robert L. Garner .. Vice President
William  A. B. Iliff ................        ......        .. Assistant to President
Henry W. Riley ..                                                         Treasurer
M. M. Mendels ..                                                           Secretary
Davidson Sommers ...............            .........          .... General Counsel
A. S. G. Hoar ........ Director of Operations-Europe, Africa and Australasia
J. Burke Knapp ................ Director of Operations-Western Hemisphere
Fran§ois-Didier Gregh ........ Director of Operations-Asia and Middle East
Milton C. Cross         .       ............... Director of Technical Operations
George L. Martin ......            ..         ........ Director of Marketing
Leonard B. Rist ...... ..                  ........ Director, Economic Staff
Richard H. Demuth ........ Director, Technical Assistance and Liaison Staff
William  F. Howell          .        ............... Director of Administration
Harold N. Graves, Jr         .       ............... Director of Public Relations
l 68]






lr
INONE
w



