k103
~~~~l- : -- m -
b;.  ;  .  II
THE WORLD BANK
ANNUAL REPORT 1989






THE WORLD BANK
ANNUAL REPORT 1989
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433



Photo Credits
Cover: H. GruyaertlMagnum
Page 12: World Bank
Page 36: Ray WitlinlWorld Bank
Page 107: Ray WitlinlWorld Bank
Page 117: Yosef Hadarl World Bank
Page 125: Tomas SennettlWorld Bank
Page 131: Yosef HadarlWorld Bank
Page 138: Yosef Hadarl World Bank
Cover
Sheep grazing near the village of Imichil, Morocco,
in the foothills of the Middle Atlas mountains. A $23
million Bank loan in support of a small- and medium-
scale irrigation project is seeking to increase crop
and livestock production by almost 10,000 farm
families and thus help slow the rural exodus fiom
semiarid areas.
Cover design by Joyce C. Petruzzelli
ISSN 0252-2942
ISBN 0-8213-1300-2



The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA  3
The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA
The expression, "The World Bank," as used  balance of payments than would IBRD loans.
in this Annual Report, means both the Interna-  IDA's assistance, therefore, is concentrated on
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-  the very poor countries-those with an annual
ment (IBRD) and its affiliate, the International  per capita gross national product of $480 or
Development Association (IDA). The IBRD   less (in 1987 dollars). More than forty countries
has two affiliates, the International Finance  are eligible under this criterion.
Corporation (IFC) and the Multilateral Invest-  Membership in IDA is open to all members
ment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). The Bank,   of the IBRD, and 137 of them have joined to
the IFC, and MIGA are sometimes referred to  date. The funds used by IDA, called credits to
as the "World Bank Group."                distinguish them  from  IBRD loans, come
The common objective of these institutions  mostly in the form of subscriptions, general
is to help raise standards of living in developing  replenishments from IDA's more industrial-
countries by channeling financial resources  ized and developed members, and transfers
from developed countries to the developing  from the net earnings of the IBRD. The terms
world.                                    of IDA credits, which are made only to gov-
The IBRD, established in 1945, is owned by  ernments, are ten-year grace periods, forty-
the governments of 151 countries. The IBRD,  year or fifty-year maturities, and no interest.
whose capital is subscribed by its member   The IFC was established in 1956. Its func-
countries, finances its lending operations pri-  tion is to assist the economic development of
marily from its own borrowings in the world  less-developed countries by promoting growth
capital markets. A substantial contribution to  in the private sector of their economies and
the IBRD's resources also comes from its  helping to mobilize domestic and foreign capi-
retained earnings and the flow of repayments  tal for this purpose. Membership in the IBRD
on its loans. IBRD loans generally have a grace  is a prerequisite for membership in the IFC,
period of five years and are repayable over  which totals 133 countries. Legally and finan-
fifteen years or fewer. They are directed  cially, the IFC and the IBRD are separate
toward developing countries at more-advanced  entities. The IFC has its own operating and
stages of economic and social growth. The  legal staff, but draws upon the Bank for admin-
interest rate the IBRD charges on its loans is  istrative and other services.
calculated in accordance with a guideline re-  MIGA, established in 1988, has a specialized
lated to its cost of borrowing.           mandate: to encourage equity investment and
The IBRD's charter spells out certain basic  other direct investment flows to developing
rules that govern its operations. It must lend  countries through the mitigation of noncom-
only for productive purposes and must stimu-  mercial investment barriers. To carry out this
late economic growth in the developing coun-  mandate, MIGA offers investors guarantees
tries in which it lends. It must pay due regard  against noncommercial risks; advises develop-
to the prospects of repayment. Each loan is  ing member governments on the design and
made to a government or must be guaranteed  implementation of policies, programs, and pro-
by the government concerned. The use of   cedures related to foreign investments; and
loans cannot be restricted to purchases in any  sponsors a dialogue between the international
particular member country. And the IBRD's  business community and host governments on
decisions to lend must be based on economic  investment issues. By June 30, 1989, the con-
considerations alone.                     vention establishing MIGA had been signed by
The International Development Association  seventy-three countries, of which fifty-two had
was established in 1960 to provide assistance  also ratified.
for the same purposes as the IBRD, but pri-  While the World Bank has traditionally fi-
marily in the poorer developing countries and  nanced all kinds of capital infrastructure such
on terms that would bear less heavily on their  as roads and railways, telecommunications,



4   The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA
and port and power facilities, its development  support of adjustment and policy reform. This
strategy also places an emphasis on invest-  lending supports programs of specific policy
ments that can directly affect the well-being of  changes and institutional and sectoral reforms
the masses of poor people of developing coun-  in developing countries designed to achieve a
tries by making them more productive and by  more efficient use of resources and thereby: (a)
integrating them as active partners in the de-  contribute to a more sustainable balance of
velopment process.                        payments in the medium and long term and to
In response to the deteriorated prospects for  the maintenance of growth in the face of severe
the developing countries during the 1980s, the  constraints; and (b) lay the basis for regaining
Bank inaugurated a program of lending in  momentum for future growth.



Contents   5
Contents
Letter of Transmittal 9
The Record for Ten Years, 1980-89  10
Highlights of the Year 11
Section One: The Executive Board 13
Section Two: The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective 20
Summary 20
Events in the Industrial Countries 21
High-income, Oil-exporting Countries Increase Production 22
Low-income and Middle-income Countries Show GDP Rise 23
Declines in the Heavily Indebted. Middle-income Countries 25
Debt and Financial Flows 27
Commodity Prices and Terms of Trade 30
World Trade Volume Increase 32
Environmental Issues to the Fore 34
Section Three: The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989 37
Commitment to Poverty Alleviation 38
Initiatives for sub-Saharan Africa 43
The Bank and the Heavily Indebted, Middle-income Countries 47
Environmental Activities 50
Private-sector Development 55
Women in Development 58
Section Four: World Bank Finances 61
IBRD Finances 61
IDA Finances 69
Disbursements by Source of Supply 71
Cofinancing 72
Section Five: World Bank Policies and Operations 78
Review of Experience with Adjustment Lending 78
Bank Lending for Emergencies 82
Reducing Poverty and Food Insecurity 84
The Research Program 88
Economic Development Institute 90
Interagency Cooperation 94
Technical Assistance 99



6    Contents
Operations Evaluation 100
Internal Auditing 101
International Finance Corporation 102
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 103
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes 104
Section Six: 1989 Regional Perspectives 105
Afriica 105
Subregional Perspectives 107
Structural Adjustment: A Medium-term Perspective 109
Addressing the Social Costs of Adjustment 110
Longer-term Issues 111
Asia 114
Structural Reform and Economic Growth 114
Reform Challenges in India and China 116
Modest Growth in Several Low-income Countries 119
Papua New Guinea and the Island Economies 120
Reducing Poverty and Protecting the Environment 121
Euirope. Middle East, and Noirth Aftica 122
Continued Variation in Economic Performance 123
Adjustment in the Maghreb Countries 125
Adjustment Issues in Jordan 126
Adjustment among the High-income Oil Exporters 127
The Challenge of Systemic Reform 127
Bank Operations. Fiscal 1989 128
Latin America and the Caribbean 129
Export Earnings. Resource Transfers, and Debt Service 131
Public Finances, Internal Transfers. and Debt Service 135
Activities of the Bank. Fiscal 1989 136
Cooperation and Cofinancing 136
Section Seven: Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD, IDA, and African Facility
Assistance in Fiscal Year 1989 139
Financial Statements of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development 183
Balance Sheets 184
Statements of Income 186
Statements of Accumulated Net Income-Unallocated 186
Statements of Changes in General Reserve 186
Statements of Cash Flows 187
Summary Statement of Loans 188
Summary Statements of Borrowings 192
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power 194
Notes to Financial Statements 198
Report of Independent Accountants 202
Financial Statements of the International Development Association, the Special Fund
Administered by IDA, and the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa Administered
by IDA 203
Statements of Commitment Resources 204
Statements of Changes in Liquid Funds 207
Statements of Condition 208



Contents  7
Summary Statement of Development Credits 210
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions 213
Notes to Financial Statements 216
Report of Independent Accountants 219
IBRD/IDA Appendices 221
1    Governors and Alternates of the World Bank  222
2    Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank
and Their Voting Power 225
3    Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank  227
4    Offices of the World Bank  229
Text Tables
1-1  Budget of the World Bank for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1990  14
2-1  Current-account Balances of the G-7 Countries. 1981-88  21
2-2  G-7 Countries: Output, Inflation, Investment, and Unemployment. 1981-88  22
2-3  Low- and Middle-income Economies: Growth of GDP and GDP per Capita,
by Region, 1981-88 25
2-4  Low- and Middle-income Countries: Investment/Savings-to-GDP Ratios,
1980-88 27
2-5  Low- and Middle-income Economies: Balance of Payments on Goods,
Services, and Private Transfers. 1981-88 28
2-6  Public and Private Long-term Debt and Financial Flows, 1980-88 28
2-7  Low- and Middle-income Economies: Medium- and Long-term Debt, Debt
Service, and Gross Disbursements. 1982-88 30
2-8  Commodity Prices and Interest Rates, 1981-88  31
2-9  World Merchandise Trade in Volume. 197088 31
2-10 Selected Trade Performance Indicators. 1965-88 33
3-1  World Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal Year 1989 39
3-2  Allocations of IDA Reflows, Fiscal Year 1989 44
3-3  Net Transfers by the World Bank to Seventeen Highly Indebted,
Middle-income Countries 47
4-1  IBRD Average Costs. Profitability. and Returns 61
4-2  IBRD Borrowings. Fiscal Year 1989 62
4-3  IBRD Borrowings, after Swaps, Fiscal Year 1989 66
4-4  Average Cost and Maturity of the IBRD's Total Borrowings Outstanding.
Fiscal Years 1985-89 69
4-5  Capital Subscriptions, Fiscal Year 1989 70
4-6  IBRD and IDA Foreign and Local Disbursements, by Source of Supply  72
4-7  IBRD and IDA Disbursements for Goods, Works, and Services Procured from
Selected Non-Part I Countries, Fiscal Year 1989 73
4-8  IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Source of Supply  74
4-9  IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Source of Supply and Description
of Goods, Fiscal Year 1989 75
4-10 World Bank Cofinancing Operations. by Region, Fiscal Years 1988-89 76
5-1  EDI Teaching and Institutional Assistance. Fiscal Years 1984 and 1989: Annual
Averages. Fiscal Years 1985-89 91
5-2  Projects Involving NGOs. by Sector and Region. Fiscal Years 1973-88  94
5-3  Aid Coordination Group Meetings Held in Fiscal Year 1989 99



8    Contents
6-1  Africa: 1987 Population and Per Capita GNP of Country Borrowers, Fiscal
Years 1987-89 105
6-2  Lending to Borrowers in Africa. by Sector, Fiscal Years 1980-89  106
6-3  Summary of Economic Performance Indicators for sub-Saharan African
Countries 111
6-4  Net Transfers to Africa  112
6-5  Asia: 1987 Population and Per Capita GNP of Country Borrowers. Fiscal Years
1987-89 114
6-6  Lending to Borrowers in Asia, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1980-89  116
6-7  Net Transfers to Asia  120
6-8  Europe, Middle East, and North Africa: 1987 Population and Per Capita GNP
of Country Borrowers. Fiscal Years 1987-89 122
6-9  Lending to Borrowers in Europe, Middle East, and North Africa, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1980-89 124
6-10 Net Transfers to Europe, Middle East, and North Africa  127
6-11 Latin America and the Caribbean: 1987 Population and Per Capita GNP of
Country Borrowers, Fiscal Years 1987-89 129
6-12 Lending to Borrowers in Latin America and the Caribbean, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1980-89 130
6-13 Net Transfers to Latin America and the Caribbean  137
7-1  Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1989,
by Region 158
7-2  Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1989,
by Sector 160
7-3  Statement of IBRD Loans Approved during Fiscal Year 1989  166
7-4  Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1989  171
7-5  IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and Region,
June 30. 1989 176
7-6  IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor,
June 30, 1989 178
7-7  Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA. Fiscal Years 1987-89  182
7-8  Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1987-89  182
Boxes
3-1  Gender and Poverty in India  58
5-1  Adjustment and the Poor 81
6-1  The Amount and Uses of Debtor Countries' Trade Surpluses  132
Box Tables
6-1  Estimates of the Resource (Trade) Surplus and Its Uses  132
6-2  Net Transfer to Foreign Creditors, Long-term Debt 133
Text Figures
2-1  Real Six-month LIBOR Rates 23
2-2  Nominal Six-month LIBOR Rates 24
2-3  Investment-to-GDP Ratios 26
2-4  Disbursements, Debt Service  29
3-1  IBRD and IDA Lending, by Lending Instruments. Fiscal Year 1989 37
3-2  IBRD and IDA Lending to the Poorest Countries, Fiscal Years 1980-89  40
5-1  Number of Food Insecure in sub-Saharan Africa 86



9
Leffer of Transmiffal
The details of events covering the period  The directors express their appreciation to
July 1, 1988 to June 30, 1989, are found in this  the staff members of the Bank for their dedi-
Annual Report, which has been prepared by  cation to the institution's ideals. They note that
the executive directors of both the Interna-  the continued professionalism of the staff made
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-  it possible for the Bank to respond to the needs
ment (IBRD) and the International Develop-  of developing countries with both flexibility
ment Association (IDA) in accordance with the  and imagination and to develop a robust pipe-
by-laws of the two organizations. Barber B.  line of high-priority projects for fiscal 1990.
Conable, president of the IBRD and IDA and   The Annual Reports of the International
chairman of the boards of executive directors,  Finance Corporation, the Multilateral Invest-
has submitted this Report, together with ac-  ment Guarantee Agency, and the International
companying administrative budgets and au-  Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
dited financial statements, to the boards of  are published separately.
governors.
Executive Directors                       Alternates
Fawzi Hamad Al-Sultan                     Mohamed W. Hosny
Paul Arlman                               Cvitan Dujmovic
J.S. Baijal                               M. Mustafizur Rahman
Mourad Benachenhou                        Salem Mohamed Omeish
Gerhard Boehmer                           Michael von Harpe
Frank Cassell                             J. A. L. Faint
E. Patrick Coady                          Mark T. Cox, IV
Jacques de Groote                          Bahar Sahin
Mario Draghi                              Rodrigo M. Guimaraes
J. S. A. Funna                            Jabez A. Langley
Jonas H. Haralz                           Jorunn Maehlum
Chang-Yuel Lim                            Robert G. Carling
Andre Milongo                             Jean-Pierre Le Bouder
Raymundo Morales                          Felix Alberto Camarasa
Jorge Pinto                               Edgar Ayales
Helene Ploix                              Stephane Pallez
Frank Potter                              Clarence Ellis
Masaki Shiratori                          Yukio Yoshimura
Jobarah E. Suraisry                       Abdulaziz Al-Sehail
Mohd. Ramli Wajib                         Le Van Chau
Eduardo Wiesner                           Pedro Sampaio Malan
Zhang Junyi                               Jin Liqun
August 3, 1989



10     The Record for Ten Years
The Record for Ten Years, 1980-89
Fiscal year
P1 Pi 1I.'I     1'4' .      '     '      I-.     I'                I-AS     1`1S9
IBRD
Loan. pIprco.ed'            t.h44  .*Mlg  !I       I      ll.94   ! I  ih 3   I.I I   14 IN  14 h'   16.433
DisbursencnlC             J.3       'J bt3  r. 32h h,j.SI  % 51    S r.4S   N.3     I13;t    IeI      11.31l)
Total Income               2          q" '19  , t  Ji 232   - o   i      4 55>  h t. S  - i  hJ   %i4)  8 274
Net `ncrnrIc                '!N      61''    .9;      72      hl !     1  1    243    ! 13     ! fl4    i.l)54
General rcerr              2. (-.111'         'n     … iS' e                a 'm  sL.  h'J     'J' '    . 42 75h
New borro.'i in              I 3   . Ilr.;-  Si 'I  III C2  '-' I I  I .liNh  Ill.Ii 9.1' .2I  ''.  9.2836
Subsc ricd CCpI[           O ;9 C44  h.h14 -t ;,t.h   '"t  5I1I9  i t.Ill 14 -  'r,           O l3 !   .41 It 114..668
nuMht r
Oper,aion, :pp44cd            44     1J'    1F'11    1It      1     1II1      3l       1'       I 1      119
Born'' inc CoLunliIIc;        4.1    ;11      43       3       J4,     44       41       3-       ;'       38
Member ri- cunrieI 35               1       1t 4     144     I4o     1s       1''      1;1      1;1      151
Higher-!   cl t tII'
(nLui IbNer'             .3      22 tl'3                          2 ;i    3 _1'    3 t.Ir.   5th'     3.398
IDA
Credit rnoun''I 3             Is   3.Js2   2.hsn    1       3.5I    3 ''l    3 .1 4''  3 4.%f  4.J45.9  4.934
Disburscnicnt-.            1.411   I       2.       2  4''            491    ; I      3 I.Ss   1 134'-  3S97
Usable re,ourcee
CUITiuIaiOX…       …    …     …     …    …     …     …  3'' 5 t 1-. 4 9"4 '  1 1 331  ,1 3.  1 614 4t titi  1;St1)97
nl ti, ri JC F 
Oper.iori, n p ro.,&         il ''3   II,t.                   I Iit ,lIr II| I.         I iS      %C4      (16
Borron" ng coun;rie,          411    J4.     J4       44       41      4i       5-       3"       3o       42
Member eoun[ries             1'1     12       13'     131     1' 13    3 I     1 3               11- 3     3
a. Excludes loans to IFC of$100 million in FY1981, $390 million in FY1982. $145 million in FY1983, $100 million in FY1984,
$400 million in FYI985, $150 million in FY]986. $200 million in FY1987, $200 million in FY1988. and $179 million in FY1989.
b. Excludes disbursements on loans to IFC.
c. Excludes $109 million in borrowings approved in FY1986 and settled in FY1987.
d. FY1987 amount is as of the date of settlement. Amounts in prior years are as of date of executive-board approval.
e. Higher-level staff on regular and fixed-term appointments held against authorized budget positions.
f. In FY1986, as a result of an institutionwide job-grading exercise, the Bank's grade structure changed, and the definition
of what constituted higher-level staff expanded considerably.
g. Joint IBRD/IDA operations are counted only once as IBRD operations.



Highlights of the Year
Highlights of the Year
1989                         1988
IBRD           IDA           IBRD           IDA
New commitments ..............   $ 16.4 billion  $ 4.9 billion  S 14.8 billion  $ 4.5 billion
Cumulative commitments ........  $171.5 billion  $52.7 billion  $155.0 billion  $47.8 billion
Lending to countries with per
capita income of $480 or less ...  $ 5.8 billion  $ 4.3 billion  $ 5.0 billion  $ 3.9 billion
Number of loans/credits  .........   119           106            118            99
Number of borrowing countries ..     38             42            37             36
Gross disbursements to countries  $ 11.3 billion  $ 3.6 billion  $ 11.6 billion  $ 3.4 billion
Net disbursements to countries ...  $  1.9 billion  $ 3.4 billion  $ 3.4 billion  $ 3.2 billion
Number of member countries           11....  I     137            151            137
IBRD net income ...............  $  1.1 billion     -         $  1.0 billion     -
IBRD borrowings ....... .......  $ 9.3 billion      -         $ 10.8 billion     -
IBRD subscribed capital .........  $115.7 billion   -         $ 91.4 billion     -
Spread between return on total
earning assets and cost of
total funds (%) ....... ........   1.89           -             1.84           -
Average return on liquid
investments (%) ..............     8.20           -             8.51           -
. 3  .  i  3   w T   ,  ,  ,,,,;  i  _;  ,,,  ,.3,,,  3,   ;   t   ,   ,   g   3  '  '  3
g   -   @;   ,  '   ,'  Z  '  .  '   1',  t  '  k  '  - i,;E  .  !~~~~t i, 
; *l | i               £ > 1 3 w i ' T j ' '; ' t  $ 3 J S 3,, . 3 - _
i      :  ,  ,                                                                . 1-, . v ; T .}   ,l $ 5 3 1 
* t t h; t ~~4   1 33i|xf,i!f,f.3J$ 



12
W~~~~~~i                               tA V 
A,                      V.
Manufacturing water pumps in Bangladesh. In many countries, small-scale industries offer the best hope
for increased employment opportunities.



13
Section One
The Executive Board
Under the Articles of Agreement of the   policies; and (c) by reviewing evaluations of
Bank, all its powers are vested in a board of  completed Bank projects and of the Bank's
governors, consisting of one governor for each  experience in individual sectors and with par-
member country. With the exception of certain  ticular policies, and by considering proposals
powers specifically reserved to them by the  for future evaluation activities, the board en-
Articles of Agreement, the governors of the  sures that the Bank and member countries are
Bank have delegated their powers to a board of  able to benefit from the lessons of experience.
executive directors that performs its duties on
a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters.            *     *     *
There are twenty-two executive directors;
each director appoints an alternate. As pro-  In fulfilling its oversight of the IBRD and
vided for in the Articles of Agreement, five  IDA financial and operating programs, the
directors are appointed by the five members  executive board approved early in fiscal year
having the largest number of shares of capital  1989 an allocation of $1,004 million of fiscal
stock, and the rest are elected by the governors  1988 net income to the general reserve. They
representing the other members.            completed the midyear review of the 1989
The executive directors meet under the   fiscal year financial and operating programs
chairmanship of the president of the Bank.  and administrative budgets and discussed and
Formal votes are rare as, in practice, most  approved the fiscal 1990 budget priorities and
decisions are reached by consensus. The exec-  policy directions and the medium-term budget
utive directors are responsible for the conduct  planning framework for fiscal years 1990-92.
of the general operations of the Bank. They  Before the end of the fiscal year, the executive
decide on Bank policy in the framework of the  directors approved a fiscal 1990 borrowing
Articles of Agreement. They also decide on all  program of about $10 billion and set IBRD
loan and credit proposals.                 lending for fiscal 1990 at between $15 billion
The executive directors are also responsible  and $19 billion, with an IDA lending program
for presentation to the board of governors at its  of SDR4.4 billion. They also approved a total
annual meetings of an audit of accounts, an  budget for the IBRD and IDA in fiscal 1990 of
administrative budget, the Annual Report on  $899.6 million for regular and special programs
the operations and policies of the World Bank,  and $21.4 million for capital programs.
and any other matter that, in their judgment,  In major financial-policy actions, the execu-
requires submission to the board of governors.  tive board approved revisions in the manage-
Matters may be submitted to the governors at  ment of the currency composition of loans and
the annual meetings or at any time between  in the IBRD's variable lending-rate system. As
annual meetings.                           approved by the executive board, these revi-
The executive board exercises its authority,  sions will reduce the risk borne by the Bank
under the Articles of Agreement, in three gen-  and its borrowers from changes in market
eral areas: (a) By its annual oversight of the  conditions and make more manageable the
financial and operating programs, and admin-  risks that do remain. At the same time, the
istrative budgets (see Table 1-1), it determines  Bank's currency management will retain the
the allocation of financial and staff resources  fundamental characteristics of the Bank's cur-
for the coming year; (b) by reviewing specific  rency-pooling system and the pool of qualified
policy proposals, either annually (for example,  borrowings as devices for distributing ex-
the allocation of net income, staff compensa-  change exposures equitably and for passing
tion, the research program) or periodically (for  through to borrowers the interest costs of the
example, the Bank's capital requirements,  funding for their loans. The approved modifi-
financial policies, lending terms, sectoral pri-  cations in the variable lending rate will allow
orities), it determines the direction of Bank  the lending rate to reflect only the costs of the



14  The Executive Board
Table 1-1. Budget of the World Bank- for the FiNcal Year Ending Junte 30, 1990
mimlbons ol Unimed Stares dutlarsi
Budget
1991)
1lh org-anii7ational uinit
Board of go% ernors ..............3.7
Executive directors and Developmient Coiniiiiiie  .  .... 24.8
Executive offices ................................   1.8
Secretary's ....................................     5.7
Operations                   .495.5
Finanice...................................63.2
Policy. planninu. and recaiLh ............................119.7
Externial affairs and administration .......- .  .............. 111.0
Legal. ICSID, and MICA . ..... ...  ............ .... 17 4
Operations ev ilu,iiion stitt . .. ........... ..  ..... 9.9
Adlministrative iribunal, oinbudlsiman. oun1 a-ppcds coriiTiinttCe .1.......... .... .. . L6
Subtotal ..........I.    ....I.........       ... 8;4 3
Continiencv. ........                           ..   8 9
Subtotal . .  . .  .. ......................863.1
Less
Reimibursemenits..........                  .....   -29.8
IFC and MICA service-and-NUpport kies  ...  ...-7 7
Subtotal........    ..825                            6
Plus
Investnetiu operations . ..................I....     10.1I
Special grant programs .. .. ..........  ............. 63.9
Total IBRD!IDA ...I.....I..................I..899.6
By expense category,
Staff costs........    .....    .....    .....      569 1
Operational travel ... ......... ......... . .. ..  85.3
Repiesentation....  .  ........ ... ........         2.5
Consuldtant fees  ... . .  ... .. ... .I...         66.8
Contractual serices (includes grants).............I..  ..... 84.0
Overhead expenses
Office occiinancv..............................    40.4
Communicati'ons ...22.2
Depreciation ...... ..  .. ...  . ......318.6
Other expenses  ... .     .  . . .....       ...   39.3
Subtotal .. . .  ...          .....-.     .....928.2
Contingency .  ..  ... . ...... ........ . . . . .   8.9
Subtotal ...                     .. ..........     937.1
Less
Reimbursements..... .. -29.8
LFC aiid M[GA service-and-support fees  . ..-7 7
Total IBRI)/IDA...     ..           .. ....  ..899.6
Of which
IBRD .. .. ......... ...      ..   ..  .........    593.8
ID)A .... ......     ......................305.8
NoTE The budget for ihe fiscal 5car ending Jujne 3,L. t9tO, was approved by, the executive directors in accordance- with the
by-lawsk~ of the tBRD and tDA The executive directors, have also approved a capital budget of S21 4 million for fiscal year
1990)



The Executive Board  15
currencies disbursed to borrowers on the  with outstanding IBRD debt. The executive
IBRD loans and allow the Bank to manage its  directors also closely followed the ongoing
own interest risk more effectively. The execu-  negotiations on the ninth replenishment of IDA
tive board agreed to continue to monitor the  resources (IDA-9).
Bank's currency-management system through   In order to fulfill its responsibility to review
a review of experience in fiscal year 1990.  project evaluations and proposals for future
The executive directors reviewed the Bank's  evaluation activities, the board continued to
experience with the investment authority that  give particular attention to the operations eval-
the board had approved in 1986. In light of the  uation department (OED). This department,
experience gained and the steadily evolving  under the direction of the director-general,
financial markets, the executive board ap-  who is linked administratively to the Bank's
proved a resolution providing for a streamlined  president, but is outside the regular staff struc-
and updated authority that provides a policy  ture, is directly responsible to the executive
framework for the investment of the liquid  directors. The board considered the OED's
assets of the IBRD and IDA, supplemented by  report on its work program, staff budget for
investment guidelines, operating rules, and an  fiscal 1990, and status of current work, as well
integrated risk-management system to assure  as the OED's annual report on operations
the appropriate prudent management of these  evaluation. The executive board also discussed
resources.                                the OED's annual review of project perfor-
The executive board also considered a   mance results and agreed that the review
waiver of the prepayment premium on IBRD  should be published for distribution outside the
loans and approved the Bank's position on  Bank.
prepayments being guided by the following   The board dealt with several issues funda-
principles: (a) The Bank will encourage pre-  mental to the Bank's operational priorities and
payment of portions of its loans that it has not  strategies, including poverty alleviation, the
sold or agreed to sell; (b) the Bank will waive  environment, debt strategy, and private-sector
the prepayment premium on loans whenever  development. In its continued involvement in
the average interest rate on the loans being  the Bank's policies for poverty alleviation, the
prepaid is not significantly above the average  board considered two task-force reports: the
for the country's outstanding IBRD loans, or  report of the Task Force on Poverty Allevia-
for borrowing countries with above-average  tion and the report of the Task Force on Food
interest rates, whenever the result of the pre-  Security in Africa.'
payment is to narrow the difference between  Throughout the year, the board was in-
the country's average and the Bank's average  volved in in-depth discussions on the Bank's
interest rate on all outstanding loans to not less  role in the debt strategy, with particular em-
than twenty-five basis points; and (c) the Bank  phasis on the Bank's operational strategy in
will continue to waive the prepayment pre-  the heavily indebted countries. The board also
mium if the prepayments are made by financial  discussed reports on analytical issues in debt
intermediaries in respect of prepayments that  reduction, implications of debt-reduction pro-
the intermediaries have received from subbor-  posals, and a legal analysis of the guarantee by
rowers.                                   the Bank of interest payments under debt-
In addition to their discussions on the  service reduction schemes as a means toward
Bank's financial policies, the board also re-  the reformulation of the Bank's debt strategy
ceived monthly market reviews and considered  in the light of discussions held by the Devel-
the Bank's funding operations on a quarterly  opment Committee and the introduction of
basis.                                    new, international debt initiatives. The board
In financial-policy actions involving IDA,  also adopted guidelines for the Bank's partici-
the executive board approved recommenda-  pation in debt- and debt-service reduction
tions on the use of IDA reflows that include the  operations.2
phasing in of IDA advance commitments made  Private-sector development was also an im-
against 90 percent of projected future reflows;  portant issue for board deliberation. The board
the use of these advance commitments to sup-  discussed the report prepared by the Private
plement IDA's overall operations, taking ac-  Sector Development Review Group and, as a
count of the views expressed by IDA deputies  follow-up, considered the private-sector devel-
and the IDA board and the new initiatives that  opment action program.3 The board broadly
have emerged since the eighth replenishment  supported the thrust of the action program,
of IDA resources (IDA-8) was negotiated; and
the use of any annual increments of uncommit-  For details. see page 84.
ted reflows and investment income to supple-  2 For details, see page 49.
ment adjustment credits to IDA-only countries  3 For details, see page 55.



16   The Executive Board
which reflected board discussions over the  priate. In other personnel-policy issues, the
past fiscal year. The board further agreed to  board discussed the Bank's human-resources
review progress on the action program after  approach.
one year.                                    After extensive briefings, the board also
The board also reviewed reports on two   approved a plan for the rehabilitation of the
types of Bank lending: the report on the review  Bank's main complex, with an authorization of
of experience in adjustment lending and lend-  a capital budget amounting to $186 million. It
ing by the Bank for emergencies.4 There was a  was agreed that the physical work would begin
general consensus among the executive direc-  at the end of calendar year 1989, with the
tors that the Bank's adjustment lending had  project's architectural and engineering firm
been moderately successful, and, as a whole,  chosen through a process of international com-
the board endorsed Bank support of countries  petition.
engaged in the unavoidable task of adjustment  The board also reviewed the activities of
for growth. In its discussion of Bank lending  other major Bank programs, including the dis-
for emergencies, for which flexibility in pro-  cussion of the annual report on the Bank's
gram design was urged, the executive directors  research program, the Bank's activities and
generally endorsed the report and its conclu-  future program in the area of external affairs,
sion. The report made no proposal for any  and the Economic Development Institute's
major departure from past practice, but it did  five-year plan for fiscal years 1990-94. In ad-
provide an opportunity to reinforce the lessons  dition, the board discussed the outline and,
of experience and refine the scope of future  subsequently, the draft of the World Develop-
activities in this area-with the modification  ment Report 1989 on financial systems and
that the Bank would take account of the impact  development, as well as a paper on the short-
of an emergency on a government's macro-   term outlook for the global economy. The
economic program. The board also considered  board also held biannual discussions of their
and endorsed the recommendations included in  own work program, as recommended by the
a report on the Bank's role in financial-inter-  executive directors' steering committee, for
mediation services.                        calendar year 1989.
The Bank's regional vice presidents briefed  In addition to meeting in regular and execu-
the board on economic and development issues  tive session, the board also convened as com-
in Asia; Latin America and the Caribbean;  mittees of the whole and in seminars to promote
Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa;  more informal discussions with management on
and sub-Saharan Africa. In these informal  a broad range of issues without making deci-
briefings, the board exchanged views with sen-  sions or providing policy guidelines. Topics
ior management on a broad range of issues  covered in this manner, in addition to those
concerning the particular regions. In addition  already mentioned, included Bank lending for
to these discussions of regional issues, the  state-owned enterprise sector reform, the cal-
board also received oral briefings on consulta-  culation of per capita GNP, Bank lending for
tive and aid-group meetings.5              agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa, and policies
Fiscal year 1989 was a particularly active  for industrializing countries and industrial re-
one for the board in deciding major adminis-  structuring. The board also discussed the policy
trative policies. The board convened seven  framework papers for twenty-six countries that
times in seminars, committee of the whole  had been jointly prepared by Bank and IMF
meetings, and formal board meetings to con-  staffs and the countries concerned. Executive
sider a new system of staff compensation to  directors also attended a three-day colloquium
replace the one approved by the board in 1979.  on international-trade issues and the ongoing
The new system, as approved by the board,  round of GATT negotiations. Convened as the
reflects a variety of sources, including the  committee of the whole and in informal ses-
report of the Joint Bank/Fund Committee of  sions, . the board also discussed issues of
Executive Directors on Staff Compensation  Bank/IMF collaboration in assisting member
(JCC). The report of the JCC was the result of  countries.6
four years of effort by the joint committee of  The executive directors continued their ac-
the Bank and the International Monetary Fund  tive involvement with the Development Com-
(IMF) executive directors, which was estab-  mittee, including assistance to committee
lished in 1984 to review aspects of the compen-  members in preparation for the meetings, con-
sation system that were called into question
during the board's discussion of staff compen-  Details of the adjustment lending review and of lending for
sation, to consider whether changes in such  emergencies are found on pages 78 and 82, respectively.
aspects were desirable, and to make recom-  See Table 5-3 on page 99.
mendations on changes that appeared appro-  For details, see page 96.



The Executive Board  17
sideration of the draft provisional agendas, and  The committee consists of eight executive
deliberation of the president's reports and  directors who are appointed by the board after
background papers that are used as the basis  each regular election for a term of two years.
for the ministers' discussions. In preparation  Since November 1988, Gerhard Boehmer has
for the biannual meetings, the board discussed  served as chairman of the committee.
papers on industrial countries' industrial poli-  Committee on Personnel Policy Issues.
cies and their impact on developing countries;  The Committee on Personnel Policy Issues
strengthening the Bank's poverty focus; prog-  was established in 1980, originally as the Com-
ress on initiatives benefiting sub-Saharan Af-  mittee on Staff Compensation Issues. Its terms
rica; and the Bank's experience with adjust-  of reference mandate it to keep under continu-
ment lending. The executive directors' steering  ing review and, where appropriate, to advise
committee also reviewed the Development   the executive directors on staff compensation
Committee's spring communiqud in order to  and other significant personnel-policy issues
ensure that the board's work program is re-  and to maintain close liaison on staff compen-
sponsive to the directions set out by the com-  sation with the executive directors of the IMF,
mittee.                                   bearing in mind the need for parallelism be-
The Joint Audit Committee (JAC). Estab-  tween the two institutions.
lished in 1970, the Joint Audit Committee   Since its inception, the committee has ad-
represents shareholders in overseeing the  dressed a wide range of topics. These include
soundness of the Bank's financial practices  issues arising from a review of expatriate ben-
and the adequacy of its operations evaluation  efits; modifications in the financial-assistance
and internal auditing. The committee provides  program; principles of staff employment (sub-
a continuous channel through which the inter-  sequently adopted by the executive directors),
nal and external auditors can communicate  as well as draft rules implementing them on
with the executive directors. In this regard, the  sensitive issues such as separation and demo-
committee reviewed and endorsed recommen-  tion; the findings, implications, and options
dations pertaining to the fiscal 1989 implemen-  relating to periodic comparator market surveys
tation of the IBRD's policy for loan-loss pro-  conducted by an outside consulting firm; is-
visioning.                                sues arising from the Bank's job-grading pro-
In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal  gram and reorganization; and issues relating to
1989, the committee nominated a firm of pri-  the Bank's human-resources strategy.
vate, independent, internationally established  During the year, the committee gave special
accountants to conduct the annual audits of the  attention to proposals for a revised compensa-
Bank. The committee reviewed the scope of  tion system contained in the final report of the
the independent accountants' examination and  Joint Bank/Fund Committee of Executive Di-
their annual audited financial statements. In  rectors on Staff Compensation, in particular,
addition, through meetings with the Bank's  on aspects relating to the definition of the
senior financial officers, the committee helped  comparator market, relationship to the com-
to provide assurance to the board that the  parator market, international competitiveness,
financial affairs of the Bank were properly  salary-structure design, salary administration,
conducted.                                salary-comparatio management, and Bank/
As part of its oversight function, the com-  IMF coordination.
mittee undertook its annual review of the work  The committee consists of eight executive
programs of the operations evaluation and in-  directors who are appointed by the executive
ternal auditing departments. Through two sub-  directors for a term of two years after each
committees, it examined specific audit reports  regular election of executive directors. Since
to determine whether the departments had  March 1986, C. R. Krishnaswamy Rao Sahib
performed their functions adequately and effi-  has served as chairman of the committee.
ciently. In addition, the committee reviewed  Joint Bank/Fund Committee of Executive
numerous papers by the operations evaluation  Directors on Staff Compensation. The Joint
department to identify problems or policy is-  Bank/Fund Committee of Executive Directors
sues for consideration by the executive direc-  on Staff Compensation was established in No-
tors. Among the many issues examined during  vember 1984 to review those aspects of the
the year, the committee discussed and en-  compensation systems of the Bank and the
dorsed the recommendations of two Bank task-  IMF that were called into question during the
force reports, one on enhancing quality control  discussions on staff compensation in the
over performance reports on Bank projects,  boards of the two institutions in June and July
and the other on improving the Bank's ability  of 1984. Under its mandate, the committee was
to apply the lessons learned from its evaluation  to consider whether changes in such aspects of
system.                                   the compensation systems were desirable and



18   The Executive Board
to recommend any changes that appeared ap-  Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures.
propriate, while bearing in mind the impor-  The Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures
tance of ensuring that the two institutions were  was established by the executive directors in
able to continue to recruit and retain staff of  July 1987 to review the board's functions and
the highest caliber, the desirability of maintain-  procedures, taking into account developments
ing the international character of the staff, and  in the international economic environment, the
the need for the compensation system to rec-  implications of the Bank's reorganized struc-
ognize more clearly individual performance  ture, and the IFC's expanded activities. The
and ability.                              committee consists of ten executive directors;
The committee's final report was submitted  Pedro S. Malan served as its chairman from
to the boards of executive directors of the  February 1988 until October 1988, when the
Bank and the IMF in August 1988. The report  committee completed its work.
contained major proposals for a revised com-  In its 1988 report, the committee recom-
pensation system. The boards of the Bank and  mended that the role and procedures of the
the IMF established a revised compensation  board, as they related to the IBRD and IDA, be
system for the two institutions that became  modified. The executive board approved the
effective in May 1989. With the completion of  committee's key recommendations, and, in
its final report, the committee fulfilled its man-  light of the committee's report, also requested
date.                                     that existing board committees review their
The committee was composed of eight exec-  terms of reference and submit these through
utive directors, four each from the Bank and  the Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures
the IMF. Since February 1986, Guenter Gro-  to the executive board for review.
sche (IMF) served as its chairman.          The committee then turned its attention to a
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Bud-  review of IFC board procedures, and, in July
get Practices, The Committee on Cost Effec-  1988, submitted its report on IFC procedures
tiveness and Budget Practices was established  to the executive board. In this report, the
in November 1986, primarily to examine cer-  committee recommended, and the board sub-
tain aspects of the Bank's business processes,  sequently approved, a new set of streamlined
administrative policies, standards, and budget  project-approval procedures and additional
practices that significantly affect the cost-ef-  board review of IFC policies, strategies, and
fectiveness of the Bank's operations.     finances. With the completion of the review of
During the year, the executive directors re-  both Bank and IFC board procedures, the
viewed and endorsed the role of the committee  committee began its final task-to review the
and its activities, together with a one- to two-  terms of reference of existing board commit-
year work program that includes the following:  tees.
first, a broad examination of the Bank's budget  The committee's report was submitted to the
processes and procedures initiated by repre-  executive board in September 1988. In it, the
sentatives of major administrative units ex-  committee endorsed the amendments sug-
plaining the budget process as it related to their  gested by the existing committees in their
work and objectives; second, a review of spe-  review of their respective terms of reference.
cific cost-effectiveness topics, with first prior-  The board approved the committee's recom-
ity to be given to (a) cost-sharing between the  mendations that the terms of reference for the
Bank and the IMF, the IFC, and MIGA, and  Committee on Staff Compensation Issues in-
(b) trust funds and reimbursable programs.  clude review not only of staff compensation
Additional topics will be addressed in a second  but also of other significant personnel-policy
phase of the work program. The executive  issues, and that the committee's name be
directors have agreed to review the continued  changed to the Committee on Personnel Policy
need for the committee upon completion of this  Issues to reflect these added responsibilities.
one- to two-year work program.            The board also approved the committee's rec-
The committee's activities in fiscal 1989 also  ommendation that the Joint Audit Committee's
included a review of management's response  terms of reference be amended to include
to the committee's earlier recommendations  review, as requested by the executive directors
with respect to the use of consultants, field  or as needed by the committee in the perfor-
offices, and travel policy. The management of  mance of its duties, of financial issues and
the Bank reported on the steps that had been  policies that have an important bearing on the
taken in these areas.                     Bank's financial position. The committee rec-
The committee is composed of eight execu-  ommended that no changes be made in the
tive directors nominated by the board. Frank  Committee on Directors' Administrative Mat-
Potter has served as chairman since the com-  ters and in the Committee on Cost Effective-
mittee's inception.                       ness and Budget Practices.



The Executive Board  19
With the completion of its three reports, the  The committee will report to the executive
committee concluded its work in October 1988.  directors upon reaching definite conclusions
Ad Hoc Committee on the Valuation of Bank  on voting-power issues.
Capital. The Ad Hoc Committee on the Val-    The committee, which has been chaired by
uation of Bank Capital was established by the  Gerhard Boehmer since April 1988, consists of
executive directors in February 1988 to review  eight executive directors nominated by the
the question of the valuation of the IBRD's  executive board.
capital in light of exchange-rate developments  The Committee on Directors' Administrative
in the 1980s that resulted in a substantial de-  Matters (CODAM). The CODAM was estab-
cline in the IBRD's "headroom," that is, the  lished in 1968. It considers, makes recommen-
margin between its statutory limit on lending  dations, and reports its findings to the executive
and the volume of loans that was disbursed and  directors for their decision on administrative
outstanding.                               matters relating to executive directors, alter-
The committee's terms of reference call upon  nates, advisors, and their staff.
it to consider possible changes in the valuation  Its terms of reference involve it in a wide
of the IBRD's capital, as well as any other  spectrum of administrative matters and charge
steps that would help diminish the IBRD's  it with responsibility for assisting executive
vulnerability to fluctuations in exchange rates.  directors in the formulation  of policies,
After reviewing several options for the  changes in existing policies, and implementa-
Bank's standard of value and some possible  tion of such policies. Matters taken up during
improvements in maintenance-of-value proce-  the year included, for example, directors' ac-
dures, the committee, with the exception of  cess to the Bank's mainframe computers and
one, has come to believe that the special  databases, directors' travel to member coun-
drawing right (SDR) would be the appropriate  tries outside their constituencies, and compen-
standard of value. However, the committee  sation for directors' assistants within the re-
also feels that such change in the standard of  vised compensation system. The committee
value should be the result of consensus among  coordinates many of its recommendations with
Bank members. The report of the committee  a similar committee established by the execu-
will be provided to the executive board in the  tive directors of the IMF. In its recommenda-
near future.                               tions, the committee tries to maintain a balance
The committee consists of eight executive  between the organization and administrative
directors nominated by the full executive  objectives of the institution and the unique
board. Murray A. Sherwin served as its chair-  circumstances faced by the directors in dis-
man from November 1988 through May 1989.   charging their dual responsibilities.
Eduardo Wiesner has been acting chairman     The committee meets as frequently as nec-
since then.                                essary, normally about once a month. The
Ad Hoc Committee on Voting Power of       membership consists of six executive directors
Smaller Members. The Ad Hoc Committee      who are appointed by the board for a term of
on Voting Power of Smaller Members was     two years after each regular election of the
established in February 1988 at the conclusion  executive directors. Since November 1988,
of discussions on the general capital increase.  Fawzi Hamad Al-Sultan has served as its
The committee's mandate is to review the   chairman.
issues and consider steps to protect the voting  Executive Directors' Steering Committee.
power of smaller member countries, which   The Steering Committee, an informal advisory
face dilution whenever there is a general in-  body of executive directors composed of the
crease in the Bank's capital. The committee's  dean and co-dean of the board and the chair-
terms of reference require it to take account of  men of the other standing board committees,
the fact that, since the large majority of the  meets monthly to consult on, and review with
smaller members are developing countries, any  the secretary, the executive directors' work
action that reduces the individual voting power  program. The committee also provides a con-
of small members also leads to a reduction of  sultative framework on various issues. In ad-
the total voting power of developing countries.  dition, the committee reviewed the Develop-
In an interim report to the executive board, the  ment Committee's spring communique to
committee outlined its main areas of inquiry:  ensure that the implications for the executive
the objective of voting rights, the definition of  directors' work program were fully consid-
smaller members, and mechanisms for attain-  ered.
ing the stated objectives.



20
Section Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Summary                                    economies, mostly in Asia, and the poor per-
The global economy in 1988 staged a strong  formance of the highly indebted, middle-in-
performance following adverse shocks of late  come countries, largely in Latin America. In
1987. In the industrial countries (that is, the  sub-Saharan Africa, GDP growth turned posi-
high-income OECD countries),' real gross na-  tive after posting a negative 1.4 percent rate in
tional product (GNP) grew by 4 percent, while  1987; per capita GDP growth, however, re-
the corresponding figure for the middle-income  mained negative.
and low-income countries was 5 percent.      Fastest growing among the countries in the
World trade grew by 9 percent in volume.   first group were China (at 11 percent) and India
These aggregates mask significant differences  (over 8 percent); the newly industrializing
among country groups.                      economies (NIEs) of East Asia continued their
Among the industrial countries, growth in  strong growth, also over 8 percent as a group.
Japan reached 5.7 percent, fueled by domestic  It is also notable that a number of "second-
demand that increased by 7.7 percent. The  tier" NIEs-Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thai-
broad-based strength of the industrial econo-  land, in particular-are moving into higher-
mies contributed to increased concerns about  performance categories. Typically, countries
inflationary pressures and triggered monetary  that performed well were those that had strong
tightening.                                investment growth in recent years, were able
During the past year, there was a growing  to take advantage of the global trade boom
general acceptance of the need to lessen the  (especially in manufactures), and were not
debt burdens of developing countries in order  encumbered by too heavy a burden of foreign
to improve their prospects for sustained   or domestic debt.
growth.                                      Latin America continued to suffer slow
The 1988 Toronto summit proposal by      growth, as per capita GDP declined for the
French President Francois Mitterand, follow-  second consecutive year.
ing one made earlier by the United Kingdom's  Major areas of concern in 1988 included
Chancellor of the Exchequer, Nigel Lawson,  trade, capital flows, debt, and the environ-
aimed at alleviating the burden of official debt  ment.
and was directed primarily toward the more   The recent buoyancy of trade should provide
impoverished countries, largely in sub-Saharan  an excellent opportunity for strengthening and
Africa. They were put into effect for eight  extending the Uruguay Round, the generalized
countries by the Paris Club. More recent pro-  system of preferences (GSP) scheme, and the
posals, such as that put forward in March 1989  Lome Convention. However, continued trade
by United States Secretary of the Treasury,  imbalances (see Table 2-1) maintain the pres-
Nicholas Brady, sought to address the debt  sure behind protectionism. These pressures
problem in the highly indebted, middle-income  make progress in the Uruguay Round ex-
countries. They seek to combine domestic   tremely urgent. Fortunately, agreements by
reform measures in these countries with agreed  senior officials on several difficult and out-
forms of debt and interest reduction to limit  standing issues were reached in April 1989.
resource outflows from the debtor countries.  Significant progress on the agriculture problem
Both the World Bank and the International  provided a major impetus, as did progress on
Monetary Fund (IMF) adopted operational    intellectual property rights. Significant prog-
guidelines for their support for debt and debt-
service reduction, and Japan has indicated its
willingness to provide supplemental funding to  Australia, Austria. Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
facilitate the process.                     France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Ire-
land, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg. the Netherlands, New
In the developing countries, there were   Zealand, Norway. Spain, Sweden. Switzerland, the
striking differences between the fast-growing  United Kingdom. and the United States.



Events in the Industrial Countries  21
Table 2-1. Current-account Balances of the G-7 Countries. 1981-88
G-7 Countries              1981    1952    I,)b3    1954    19YV     I 9.Yh   I%.^ 7   19bS
Billiowiis rf US driollars
United State'                b.9   - 8 '  -43 3   -107.1   -115.1   -13x.s   -154.(1  -126. 
Japan                        4.8     6.9    20.8     35.()   49.2     85 8     87.ll    79 6
,Germans Federal
Republic of               -3.6     5.1     5.3     9 8      16.4    19.2     45.3      s.5
France                     -4 K   -12.1    -4 7     -tl 9    -0.4      3 0     -4.1     -3.8
Lnited Kinadom              13.9     8.2     5 9      2.8     4 3      0.2     -4 8    -26.1
Italy                      -4.1    -6.2     1I      -25      -17       2.5     -I       -4.(1
Canada                      -5.1     2.3     2 .      2.1    - I 41   - 7      -E t!    -9.1
Total                        3.1   -4.6   - 1.     - 6hl1.  - 51.7   -I .6    -39 h    -41.4
Other industrial countries'  -19.3  - I 5 7  -3.2     1.1     1:1.8   -1.9     -'.6    -11.'
All industrial countries  - 16.2  -21)    - 15.2   - 59.4   -49.9    - 17.'   -4'.2    -'2.'1
PNrcenragi cf G   G,VPiDP
United States                u.2   -03     -1 4     -2 8     -2.9     -3 3     -3 4     -2.8
Japan                        114     il.6    1 8      2 S     3.7      4.4      3 h      ' .8
Germam, Federal
Republic of               -(L.     1.15   (..8      1.6     2 6      4 4      4 (0     4.0
France                     -Ii 8   - '.2   -0.9     -0) I    -). I        114  -l.i   -11.4
United Kingdom               27      1.7     1.3     ( 6      0) 9     l)     -n         3 -3
htalh'                      -2.2   - I 5     0.4    -13.6    -13.9     0 4     -I3.l    -0I.5
Canada                      -l 7     1.9     0.rh     0.6    -13.4    -.1     -1.9     -I 9
Total                         .1    -0.1   -0.2     - I.I.b  -0       -0.2    -0.4      -1i 4
Other industrial counitres  -1.9    - I    --3I       1      .      -.1      -.1).I   -i 6
All indu,tnial countrieS   -0 2    -11.3   -0.3 -I. -11.6            -10.2     -0.4     -- 4
a. Inclcide Au.ri,.. AuItr.. Belig.um. Denmirk. Finland Iceland lifd,nd. Luwemboure he NeihcrIhnd& Nc: Zealand.
Nor-am, Sp-n, Ss,edin. and S.iizerland
SOULRCE O)ECD.
ress has also been made in parallel negotiations  multicountry initiatives, involving pollution
outside the GATT (General Agreement on Tar-      and toxic-waste issues, gave momentum to the
iffs and Trade) on the important issue of serv-  search for solutions to a number of global
ices.                                            problems in this area. Although developed and
The general situation of the group of seven-   developing countries may differ in their prior-
teen highly indebted, middle-income countries    ities respecting specific environmental issues,
deteriorated in 1988, as interest rates rose and  they find themselves increasingly in agreement
commercial banks continued to reduce their       that interaction is needed to deal with these
exposure. Although there was some increase in    issues.
direct investment flows to a few developing
countries, most of it was directed to countries  Events in the Industrial Countries
such as Indonesia and Thailand. Lack of            In the industrial countries, 1988 was a year
growth in many developing countries added to     of robust growth (see Table 2-2). Growth was
domestic tensions, as governments faced tight-   led by fixed investment and supported by
ening resource constraints and often resorted    increased consumption and the expansion of
to monetizing domestic fiscal imbalances. In-    world trade. The growth of real GNP in the
flation rates in many developing countries,      industrial countries accelerated from 3.4 per-
especially in those with large external-debt     cent in 1987 to 4 percent in 1988, and the
burdens, accelerated, inhibiting the process of  growth rate for the volume of world merchan-
real saving and investment. These financial      dise trade rose from  about 6 percent to 9
disruptions made more urgent the need to         percent. Private nonresidential investment ad-
implement sound domestic policies and to find    vanced by some 11 percent in 1988, while
viable solutions to the problem of debt.         consumption grew by 3.5 percent.
The year also witnessed a heightened inter-      These positive developments resulted in in-
est in environmental issues, and significant     creased pressure on capacity in the industrial



22    The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Table 2-2. G-7 Countries: Output. Inflation. Investment, and Unemployment. 1981-88
3.erage rnnual perceniape ch.pgc: unemplosment rates in percenhi
I9S14h      1987      19",      198lh        14b' l7   1988i
Real GNP                       GNP Je!lawr
Linited Stares                     3.3        3.3       3.9        3.8        3.3        3.4
Japan                              4.11       4.5       5 7        1.3       -0.2        0.4
German.. Federal Republic oF       1.9        1.8       3.4        2.8        .1         1.5
France'                            1.6        1.9       3.4       .'S         '.9        3.2
Liniled Kingdom'                   2.9        4.6       3.6        5.3        4.8        6 6
ltalh                              1.8        3.')      3.9       11.9        6.1        5.9
Canada                             3.3        4 '       4.5        4.2        4.3        4.2
Totail                           3.1        3.4       4.2        4.2        2.7       3l
Gro.' fi-ed inteinment           LUnemplorment Rates
uLnited States                     .7.        2j)       6.1        7 5        b.2        55
Japan                              3 4       1t1.3     13 1        2.6        2.9        2.5
German%. Federal Republic of       0.6        2.5       i.8        7.2        7 9        7 9
France                            v).         3.?       7.0        9.4 70 5             10.1
United Kingdom                     5.2        8.3      11.8       10.8       1u.2        8.2
Ital.                              1.2        6.8       4.9        9.4        1 1.1     II).0
Canada                             0.4        9.6      12. 5       9.8        8.9       7..8
Total'                           1 6        i.0       8.3        '.2        6.9        6.3
a. Preliminar)
h GDP and GDP deflator
i. Aggregaie f eighted on tne baii% of 1987 %Dlue of GNP'GDP e%pre,.ed In 1981i United SLaies dollar;.
SLt.RcE. The %%&rld B.nl, and OECD.
countries and nudged inflation rates slightly but  cerns over inflation and prompted tighter mon-
noticeably higher. This trend continued on a     etary policy.
broad front in the early part of 1989, as indi-    In Japan, a relatively easy monetary policy
cated by consumer prices. Capacity utilization   contributed to the shift in the composition of
in the seven major industrial countries rose to  GNP away from net exports toward domestic
about 87 percent in 1988 from an average of 82   demand. The weakness of the yen and the rise
percent over the period 1983-86, while the       of oil prices toward the end of 1988 paved the
average unemployment rate fell to 6.3 percent    way for tighter monetary policy there, while
from 7.6 percent over the same period. The       favorable trends in productivity and costs kept
growth in compensation per employee in nom-      the actual rate of inflation low. In the United
inal terms in the industrial countries climbed   States, signs of an acceleration in the rate of
from 4.5 percent in 1987 to 5.4 percent in 1988.  inflation have appeared. While U.S. growth
Unit labor costs rose by 3.2 percent in 1988,    seemed to be slowing toward the middle of
compared with about 2.8 percent in 1987. Ris-    1989. the scope for a significant easing of mon-
ing cost pressures, among other factors, pushed  etary policy is generally thought to be limited.
up inflation of the GNP deflator from 2.7 per-   Nevertheless, slower growth in the demand for
cent in 1987 to 3.0 percent in 1988.             credit seems to be allowing a modest decline in
Increasing growth and inflation combined      interest rates in the United States.
with tightening monetary policy to drive up
short-term interest rates steeply in the United  High-income, Oil-exporting Countries
States, and less rapidly in Japan and Germany    Increase Production
(see Figure 2-1). The upward trend was also        The high-income oil exporters' increased
evident in real terms (see Figure 2-2), with     their oil production from a level of about 8.4
adverse consequences for most developing         million barrels per day (b/d) in 1987 to around
countries.                                       9.5 million b/d in 1988. The weighted average
In continental Europe, domestic currencies     price for the group of seven countries fell to
were strong to March 1988 and then began
weakening in the middle of the year. This,       2 Includes Bahrain, Brunei. Kuwait. Libya, Qatar, Saudi
together with strong oil prices, reinforced con-  Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).



Low-income and Middle-income Countries Show GDP Rise  23
Figure 2-1. Nominal Six-month LIBOR Rates
(.nnual percentaaesi
1 7
16
1;                      r
1  10'''s\\\\\~~~~~~~~~~- -
\  Cs,,l- :r,e l;-,-lrS   - S 
C_ _--~ --_
4
l 9i I   1 982    19 8'3   1984      18t 3    lu       19         95 19.8
$13.50 a barrel for 1988, 20 percent below the  The November 1988 OPEC   agreement
level for 1987.                            helped clarify the Iran-Iraq parity issue and
Oil-export earnings for the group were about  shifted the focus back to market conditions.
$42 billion in 1988, 9 percent below those of  As a result, prices firmed. This price rise was
1987. In spite of a fall in export earnings,  amplified later by supply mishaps in Alaska
imports by this group of countries were sus-  and the North Sea.
tained at about $38 billion, as in the year
before. Preliminary estimates put the deficit on  Low-income and Middle-income
balance of payments for goods, service, and  Countries Show GDP Rise
private transfers for the group at about $7  The average GDP growth rate in 1988 for the
billion; Saudi Arabia accounted for most of this  low-income and middle-income countries was
deficit, while Bahrain, Kuwait, and the UAE  5 percent (aggregating the data by using 1980
showed small surpluses. The sharp increase in  as the base year). There were substantial
the volume of crude production resulted in  differences among country  groups. East
growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) of  Asia's GDP growth rate was about 9 percent,
almost 7 percent in 1988 (see Table 2-3).  while the corresponding figure for Latin
A number of the larger middle-income oil-  America and the Caribbean was about 1.4
exporting countries, such as Nigeria and Mex-  percent. On average, the GDP of sub-Saharan
ico, sought to maintain their export dollar  African countries rose by 3 percent, while the
revenues by increasing volume to offset the  developing countries in Europe, the Middle
price fall. Venezuela increased its export vol-  East, and North Africa registered a gain of
ume, but the value of fuel exports fell by about  about 2.5 percent.
5 percent. Indonesia, however, managed to    Among the low-income countries, China
increase its overall exports considerably by  and India, in particular, demonstrated strong
boosting nonoil exports.                   growth of output, with growth rates of 11



24   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Figure 2-2. Real Six-month LIBOR Rates
,annu,al rercerlujg.esi
*        , _Ijr,\r :II. -..I~
1 ~~~ 1
I      S~~~~~~~~ 
percent and 8 percent, respectively.3 Toward  growing demand for imports of such goods in
the end of the year, fears of overheating the  the Pacific region. The demand for their ex-
economy and of inflation prompted China to  ports was also helped by the recent restructur-
introduce a series of administrative, monetary.  ing of the Japanese economy that caused it to
and fiscal measures to regain price stability  be driven more by domestic demand.
over the medium term.                        Gross domestic product also increased mod-
Countries with high investment/GDP ratios  estly in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa,
have generally grown fast. This was again the  after declining in the previous year. The in-
rule in 1988. As in the previous year, the best  crease was not enough to effect a rise in per
performers continued to be those countries on  capita GDP in the face of rapid population
the Pacific rim whose ratios of gross domestic  growth. Growth was aided by a return to
investment to GDP have typically exceeded 20  normal weather conditions (prompting, for the
percent over a number of years (see Figure 2-3  most part, an increase in per capita agricultural
and Table 2-4). The corresponding ratio over  production), a terms-of-trade improvement
the past five years has been 17 percent for the  (except for the oil exporters), and by the deep-
Latin America and the Caribbean region and 15  ening structural adjustments that are being
percent for sub-Saharan Africa. These averages  carried out by an increasing number of govern-
conceal lower investment ratios for some coun-  ments. In Nigeria, GDP is estimated to have
tries, in which gross investment is not even  risen by more than 5 percent, reflecting a 9
sufficient to cover depreciation, with the result  percent increase in oil production and a recov-
that such countries are becoming decapitalized.  ery in agriculture. Except in Mali, which suf-
The newly industrializing economies of East  fered from adverse weather conditions, eco-
Asia showed an average growth rate of over 8
percent. These countries offer a wide range of
exports in manufactured or semiprocessed
goods and were able to take advantage of the  For details, see pages 116-19.



Declines in the Heavily Indebted, Middle-income Countries  25
Table 2-3. Lou- and Nliddle-income Economies: Gro%uth of GDP and GDP per Capita,
by Region. 1981-88
a-.erage annual ptierniaje change'
1w56       IYs.tl GDP                          GDP prcapiTa
GCI-'    Populdltin
iSbillin   I rrilliin,l  l'O, I-_n  l'JU-  l'-s  viS 1-s  1%?  lM 7
Lv. - and middle-income
economie,                   '.57.1)    1.S3.4       4 1    4.2     5       2 i    2.1     3 6
Rtei..ail 2,. orpi
Sadb-Saharan Africat          154.3 .       2. I    114   - 1 4   3 t0   -',h    -4 5   -11 4
Easl Aia                    h61. 1     1.48 4       S   3    '     4       F4  h ' 
South A,a                    '9h J     1 05         i      46 h       h           2.3 *,  ;_
Europe. Mfiddle Eail. and
Noirth Afic.1'             .4S I      352 I       33     ! h    25       I I   --11.    ;,
Latin Americ, and the
C.ifibbean                 649 5       (1 5                7 -  2  I 4  -O -   -I 6    -ii 6
|/, . ,,t jr-upsr
Lov incomen                   .4 hi    2'64.2        5     5 4    % 6      45     3       0h4
Nliddle Income              1.7Y'4.9   1.111 - '    2      3.4    2 5      114    1. I    l,t
Hihl\ indebted couniries       :24 4      5(A '       .      I -    1      - I 2   -t h   -11 h
MIt fli*. *IL 11,
Hi-h-inre'nie oNil expori-rs'  149 3     21111    -5.6     4 2    h 5    -9 3     ii 2   n .1.
n .. Nut a ai1 ibir
. Preliminar crd ],in! J ..n data,
b EWclJd, St,-wih Unra
. Include, Chin,. Fii. Indonm-., <;nap',hea. Kiaiht ii Repj,hlE cl KIr- a. L.,.-.i'lk DC ir ,tic Rcpublh al.Cc-
Nal.;';i, PP,po. Nvc Guine, Philippre. ,-lImv-n  'la,nd' 1.:inc ,,. Chin, Tharlic T-.nej.  \'.5'latU, VeNnl and
WeUtern S.amoa
d. Includce. .&igh;.irtar, .\igeri.. r: pu  F F:.r GIr- cH une ,r.. ir.,n  i.rd.n L ehan, n I h,., MA XI. Malt. .
OIrr!nrL. F'- Iard. Ponug.I. Rc-n,nia. S:r,, TdnLil-, Turke: . Yirecn Iflrbh Rcpnbl,.c r,---plc ,Dcm3ii Rpuhmlc c-I Y':rnen.
and u   si.i.
incluLdc. Arc.eni,nr Boli-I. Br 7il. Chile. El-MI'l  1  Ric.. Core J -.rc EC.-., 1.an:nI.a Metico. Nlro-ec-,
Niceri.. Peru, Philippine, Lr,.rt,. \ nc'ieia. .nd' u,g-'i
I Includse. Eahrain. Brune tu. .i Lih-.. tli7arf. SaiLd. Xr,bil. and The liir,,d \r.bh Enir3i-
SctiR I:r. Tne \ -rid Bank
nomic growth improved in all the Sahelian         facing increasingly difficult domestic political
countries in 1988.                                situations that have inhibited their ability to
adjust as quickly as desired and that pose
Declines in the Heavily Indebted,                 increasing problems to sustained adjustment.
Middle-income Countries                           Many countries have begun serious adjustment
Performance in the seventeen heavily in-        programs-such as Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rica,
debted, middle-income countries was mixed         Jamaica, Mexico. Morocco, the Philippines,
overall, as it was in the other debt-distressed   and Uruguay-but creditors and the countries
middle-income countries, many of whom share       themselves must recognize that this is only the
debt burdens similar to the group of seventeen.   first step in a long and difficult process of a
It has been clear that even in the best of        return to sustainable, steady growth.
circumstances, rectifyingthe serious macroeco-       As a group, the seventeen heavily indebted,
nomic imbalances that have accumulated over       middle-income    countries  were   unable   to
the years in these countries will take a long     achieve GDP growth in excess of their popu-
time. Such reforms require concerted efforts      lation growth rates in 1988. Aggregate growth
by  governments, popular acceptance, and          was less than 2 percent, implying a decline of
strong external support. Some countries are       around 0.6 percent in their per capita income



26   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Figure 2-3. Investment-to-GDP Ratios
ir7errCertat3gE
34
--  3r                                     l  . in3
ee                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~--.-_____
I 'D, 1  1J'3.1 E-15 1  , 5  1 %F: 1987  198-5
level. There was wide variance between coun-  sary for production and to avoid impairing
tries, however; Morocco, for example, saw its  longer-run growth prospects.
GDP increase by more than 10 percent. More   For the low-income and middle-income
critically, investment in the group of highly  economies, the balance of payments on goods,
indebted countries continued to fall, to 15  services, and private transfers was in deficit of
percent of GDP in 1988, compared to 25 per-  about $30 billion in 1988, a deterioration of
cent for these same countries in 1980. Unless  about $44 billion from the 1987 surplus (see
these investment rates can be restored to ear-  Table 2-5). This balance for the highly indebted
ier levels, resumption of sustained growth will  group of countries in 1988 was $11.5 billion in
be difficult, indeed,                      deficit, compared with $8.5 billion in 1987.
There are, of course, regional differences. In  Much of that change was due to higher factor-
Asia, domestic absorption remains strong, as  service payments. The balance-of-payments
investment makes an above-average contribu-  deficit of the high-income oil exporters in-
tion to output growth. In contrast, Latin Amer-  creased by about $6 billion, as exports failed to
ica's main source of growth derives from con-  keep pace with import demand.
sumption. Sub-Saharan Africa has declining   Among regional groups in 1988, East Asia
trends in investment and exports, with little  experienced a fall in its surplus of close to $20
gain in consumption. The downward trend in  billion, primarily due to a surge in imports,
investment is particularly disturbing as this  promoted actively through trade policies. For
would be the normal vehicle to incorporate  the entire middle-income group of countries
technical change and make economies more   (which includes East Asia), 1988 shows an
competitive and efficient. Countries that rely  aggregate deficit of slightly more than $12
on inefficient import substitution may show  billion, or a deterioration of close to $45 billion
short-term improvement in their balances;  from the 1987 level. On an aggregate basis, the
however, a certain level of imports is neces-  balance of payments of the low-income coun-



Debt and Financial Flows  27
Table 2-4. Low- and Mliddle-income Countries: ln,eslmenV!Sa%ings-to-GDP Ratios.
1980-88
Bi- kmokqraFihicalr 
Sub-Saharan Africa
Gross domesilc in'.etment  2118    II N   1' 6    14 9   1 l-   12      14 h   is     14 1
Gross domesiic ,a, ng'     22'' -.2       11.4    lih    11 -   112     11 3   12 4    I.X
Latin Amcrica and the
Caribbe-un
Gross domnestic in%estment  24 2   23 6   21.4   16 9    16 7   1- '      4    MI.'    IS 7
Gro,s domestic a.avinps    22 b    22U 2)   1    '19     21 9   22.     19.8   19.7   bS 6
East Asia
Gross domeslic inve.tment  29.4    28.6   28 3   2h 9    28.9   '1.4   29 S    29.8    33 2
Gross domesi.c isaings     29."    - 9    2.2    28.      t I) 4  ID.5  32 h   3-4 8  36 1
South Asia
Grbos domestic in% e%tmenl  23.1   24 '2 22.1    2 I     22.11  244.h  2.h     21.6   2t1.7
Gross domestic tmvinrgs     1' S   ou 6h  IY.Q   1 '9   19 I   21 .7  19.8    1N.7    1.8
Europe. Mliddle Easi. and
North .fric
Gross domestic investmeni  2'.S    2-     2 1    29.u!   2b 3   26 9   2h.9   2'.9    25.8
Gro,s domestic sa% ings    3.3      4.IJ  32.3   29.4-   2'.2   'h 4    '4.'   22.5    " '
B! illnclle Izioup
Lo%% income
Gross domesuc inmestment  '2.'    25i 1    4 2   23.9    23 S    7.1)   * 2    27.0i  IS.l
Groess domestic sa inp     24.8   22.S    21 6   217     22 S   3 S     '4.t   25.1   27.4
Mliddle income
Gross dnme'tic investment    2       3    255    '4.1    232    22    -        21 2   '1.t
Gross domestic savings     2                        I 4.5  24 -  25  2  25 -  5.1  5 6  19.5
Lo%% and middle income
Grows doniewtic inveotment  26 '   26 1   '4 6   24 I    23.    M 5    23.3    231  I  24.0
Gross domeEtie sa%ings     24 h    231    23 4   23      '4 4   24 b   24 4    24.6   24 S
., PreMmin;ar e,.mAre-.
SOURCU Ihe hWorld B,nk
tries in 1988 was -$17 billion, as compared to   percent of their combined GNP at the end of
-$18.5 billion in 1987.                          1988 and showing little change from the level of
debt outstanding at the end of 1987. The slow-
Debt and Financial Flows                         down in nominal debt accumulation can be
The economic situation for the highly in-      attributed to three major factors:
debted countries as a group deteriorated in        * Debt reduction.   The year saw    an in-
1988. The trend in negative resource transfers   crease in the pace of voluntary reduction, by
(that is, net outflows), which started as far    commercial creditors, of the debt of a number
back as 1984, continued. For the year, total     of  major   middle-income    debtors,  partly
disbursements amounted to $92 billion, but this  through debt-equity swaps and buybacks.
was more than offset by total debt service of      * Commercial-bank participation.   In 1988,
$142 billion, resulting in a net negative transfer  lending from commercial banks to the group of
of some $50 billion. Figure 2-4 shows the        highly indebted, middle-income countries was
trends in financial flows since 1980.            $8.5 billion gross ($1.7 billion net), close to the
Net flows to middle-income and low-income      level in 1987. However, private capital flows to
countries was at the modest level of$17 billion in  this group of countries continued to be domi-
1988 (see Table 2-6). Much of this came through  nated by disbursements on large concerted
concerted lending following rescheduling agree-  packages to a very limited number of countries
ments with such major debtors as Brazil.         (Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico). Smaller coun-
Total debt (including short-term debt) for the  tries with strong performance records have had
developing countries was estimated at about      a great deal of difficulty in gaining access to
$1.0 trillion, an amount equal to about 50       private markets. Morocco, for example, has



aL  Vn  I... D  -;                          -- 
o~~~~~~-  r~~~~~~~~~~~-         Z                                        -~~~~~~~~~~- 
~~~~7  rE-  ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cc  3                                  FtC  -
(5*4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:v C.VTC -
lit. A 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.~
n  Zm  '=S 
*     w          .                   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-      .              -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  n i t  a   a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0..~~~~~e
oo ~ ~ ~   ~  -0                                       -aC
-  '41.4  Sb   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~  -   I  l i i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  I IL i  I
- l.. c       0                                                                       C    C
4-  j-, ~~~~~~~~~~~C  4  C-                            I I       -(D
Vt                    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I . --I I - I  I ...   C
4.. J.. C                                                                    co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= -.Z  a C
r, 3  ,'  C-  .3' .  .~  'C        V
C                                    I   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:I~
7  ~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~Z  r  s            -4
7.  7  7 ~ ~ ~ ~   C.I                    I  .-   -  I   I 
S.       -   XY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  -  3' ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7  -L.'D.  4-. 2
'C  I  -         -                                  .4   ASb~   ~~  ~~ ~~~~~~~- r-  3'14 :- '.
Ii 'S  3   Ii .
I        -   I -J 
3~~~~~~~               0i 4                                  14    IS  .  C'- 
r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 43'W



Debt and Financial Flows  29
Figure 2-4. Disbursements, Debt Service
jn-.l  jno. nr,rei var-.ier  all:i Je r -o, -. ,,,ur,MTrle
~1.')
I C 
.- -.  _                           -                  -
--S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
S..~~~~~~~~~ -: ,-     ,:.: ,  . 
not received new money since 1984 despite  was slower than the 18 percent rise experi-
repeated requests, and the negotiations to roll  enced in 1987, although much of this may be
over Colombia's maturing debt were difficult  attributed to currency adjustment. Increases in
and protracted, despite that country's good  both years are attributed to an increase in
economic and payment performance.          official leriding and currency-valuation effects.
* Exchange-rate movements. In 1987, close  These effects tend to be more pronounced for
to $70 billion of the nominal increase of total  low-income countries because loans from offi-
developing-country debt was accounted for by  cial lenders and multilateral agencies have a
the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the  currency mix weighted more towards nondol-
major currencies. In 1988, exchange-rate move-  lar currencies.
ments were generally small and in the opposite  The Baker plan, which was initiated in 1985,
direction to those in 1987. The U.S. dollar  emphasized the sharing of the debt burden
generally appreciated vis-a-vis the other major  among the adjusting debtor countries; official
currencies during the course of the year, bring-  lenders, who would increase their financial
ing down the dollar value of the end-year stocks  flows in support of adjusting countries; and
of debt denominated in those currencies.   private creditors, who would provide adequate
These factors had different implications for  amounts of new lending. In practice, the bur-
the two major distressed groups of debt-   den of providing finance has fallen more heav-
ors-the heavily indebted, middle-income    ily on official sources; their proportion of debt
countries and the countries of sub-Saharan  outstanding was 44.1 percent in 1988, up from
Africa. Voluntary debt reduction and low lev-  40.8 percent in 1986 and 43.8 percent in 1987.
els of commercial-bank lending mainly affected  Out of total disbursements of $92.3 billion that
the former group, whose debt remained un-  went to low-income and middle-income coun-
changed at about $445 billion. Sub-Saharan  tries in 1988, $46.5 billion came from official
Africa, however, saw an increase in lending of  sources; the remainder was from  private
6.5 percent, to $127 million, an increase that  sources (see Table 2-7).



30    The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
lable 2-7. Low- and Mliddle-income Economies: Nledium- and Long-term Debt, Debt
Seriice, and Gross Disbursements, 1982-88
ibillion; -. [is ioull,r4i
All at. and
middie-lncome            Hihl% indebred
o.Lunries               courtne;'             Sub*Sahardn Afrca
Debt                          I 7         993.2'       371.3       445.7        -6. 2       126.9
Otficuil                   '9. I        456 0           .9       12 '9.'      46 4         86.1b
PrnL'Le                   4-2.6          37 2        "3 4        3 16.        29.8        40.9
Debt j - of GNP               36.9         39.8         55 6        533         4-A.4         .6
Deht %erfle'C               1tA 3         142.          50.8        S9 8          .2
Interest                      52.s         h,67.0       30."        37 1         2.9         4.0
Official                    11.          20.4          4            .14        1.1          2.2
Pri%.ie                     41.11        46.6         26 '        '9.4         .s           1 8
Amortization                  I5.5        '5.4          2.1         22.5         J 3          4.9
Official                    13.9         24.           4.9          .1         1 2          2.'
Prnate                      41.6         i0.t         15.2        14 2         3.1         2.2
Debt ser ice .s '; of
e\ports of goods ind
services;                   21 9         '23.8        40) x       41 6        I'.          19.10
A'erage irtereWLJ              6.f          7.2          8. 3        8 4         4.1)         3.
Gros, dt,hur;enrcnts          953          92.3         x4.u        25.6         9.i         11.4
OtYicial                    34.3         46.5         10.5        [5.3         5.0          8.3
Pnvate                     61                                     I 45.8  23.5   1[.8  4.5  3.1
NoIE Ctasr, rp'bit, and pbilicIl, guaanteed and nonguar,nietd pn%ale debl lor the It1 Co,anineS ,n the W\orld Bank's
Debtor Reportrin S% htm
a. Inlude; Argentin.. Bolita. Brazil, Critile. Colombia. Co!ta Rica. Cots dl-o,re. Ecuador JaMLaJc.. tento, lloio,co.
Nig:erid. PerL. Phd,plrpnes. Llrugut . Venezuela and 1 ugosl-a
1' PrThirT,nar%.
; Cash b    M,i.l 1a. ±CtUal pa' menis
J v er.ge inrerell ailu1ai. rtld on the out.ianding det t i-d sear
SOtL RCL The h%.rId Bink.
During 1988, several countries reduced their       In recent operations in Bolivia, Chile, and
stock of debt through debt-for-equity swaps and    Mexico, however, creditors have granted the
buybacks. Chile has been among the most suc-       waivers necessary to permit debt-reduction
cessful in using swaps, as it reduced its stock of  transactions to take place. In addition, the G-7
debt by more than $5 billion over the period       governments4 have formed a group to review
1985-88. There is a growing recognition by the     the tax-accounting and the regulatory environ-
international community of the need to reduce      ment to seek ways to reduce impediments to
both the debt stock and debt-service burden of     debt-reduction schemes. The Bank for Interna-
the debt-distressed countries. At the April 1989   tional Settlements, the International Monetary
meeting of the Development Committee, mem-         Fund, and the World Bank are also analyzing
bers agreed that the approach should be broad-     the issue.
ened further, including use of voluntary market-
based techniques that increase financial flows     Commodity Prices and Terms of Trade
and reduce the stock of debt.                        The nominal dollar price index of thirty-
Certain legal obligations and provisions in      three nonoil commodities jumped by nearly 20
debt contracts, such as negative pledge clauses
and   mandatory   prepayment and     payment-      4 Include Canada, France. the Federal Republic of Ger-
sharing clauses, can inhibit debt and debt-         many, Italy. Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United
service reduction.                                  States.



Commodity Prices and Terms of Trade   31
Table 2-8. Commodilt Prices and Interest Rates, 1981-88
'pnces in a-eragt unnuil rjt;e of chnange. intereit rare, in annual pcrtentlgc. 
14- 1 ;6        19SI
LCi,lilflO,IUt pri;c hi in ioruhali i ct 'arl.rs
Food and beveriges                         - 1.1            6.1         -16.1            IS 2
Nonfood agriculture                        -6 3           -9.2            24.3 x 
ic;ials and minerals                       -5 tl          -               14.9 
Total nunoil                             - 2.8           j1 ii UI
Petroleum                                 -14.           -49 4            '.4          -L
Crnnnoduai pricet ill redll Le, 11s%
Total nonoil                               -4 s          -14.2           -1b I1 4
Petroleum                                 -15            -56.9             6.2         -26,8
1n1 sperieJi davi moe rit '/iA SDRt ttreng
Total nonoil                               -  7           - 12.8         -9. 5           1 5.9
Petroleum                                 - 13           -n9              14.6         -24.4
IiiCereF3 r/tits
Si% month dollar LIBOR                      11.1            6.9            '.3            8.1
In real ter-nms                              6 0O           4 I            3 9            4.5
NOTE Comrrtxlti'. pnce indlices .re veighiel h%. comModitds espoil' i ,o I I. leelrnc neIounftflc
a. DeNlated b' esport prces nf manufactures of m..~jor indutriAl conITr.e;
b Denaled b:- the U.S GINP deflatior
SOURCE The World Bank.
Table 2-9. World Nlerchandise Trade in Violume. 1970X8
ipercrniage point change per annumi
I QJs
IJ-I-'9   I9-9-8N    IMF    (nE(rD      iBRD
World Trade Volunies                               h.4         3 n      9.3     87
Exporl vltolne bi i   lmhn )1 £ 'imodirn' -,,r'ldp5
NManufaciuret                                    h.         4.'      1'.'    lU 11I5
Nonoil primary                                   2.8        4 9       S.9    nOt         4 5
Oil and product.                                 1.6       -I S       I       7 .        '.
BN, ma_joe, c|li-wrr groieZps
Bi nr/rXow       rip
Wuth-income OECD                                 6.6         3.8            ; .'  I  bf
L'nited Siates                                  . -        I '     24.1    2.7        2211
Japan                                           3          5 2      4.3      2         5.0
Germans. Federal Republic of                   5           3.5      ' h     4.8         73
Lou- and middle-income                           4.5         2.4     1 I.     A.5        9.5
a Estimarer.
n-. Not a%ailable
SOLURCES: IMF e%timater frv.m tteld E. in.rani, O'lnOA. .Xpr,l lYS. ('LECD EC  -.t. 0i,,., .. Juinc 19)9. orld Bank,
June 1959
percent in 1988 after stagnating for two years    terms were still about 30 percent below their
(see Table 2-8). The dollar manufactures unit      1980 level-a year that was particularly buoy-
value (MUV) index went up by 6.4 percent          ant for commodities. Prices of tropical bever-
during the year and helped to consolidate the     ages, such as cocoa (down 26 percent in real
increases of the previous two years. In spite of  terms) and the robusta variety of coffee, which
these gains, nonoil commodity prices in real      are important for many sub-Saharan African



32   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
countries, were depressed. Export revenues  world became clearer during 1988. The foci of
were seriously affected, and prospects for any  this trend are three major blocs of countries:
improvement in the near future are modest.   * Asia, as Japan, the newly industrializing
Exporters of minerals and metals, however,  economies, and  ASEAN  (Association  of
enjoyed a price recovery in 1988. The dollar  Southeast Asian Nations) countries have inten-
price level for these commodities increased  sified their relationships. In 1988, trade among
upwards to 40 percent over the 1987 level,  this bloc of countries advanced by 25 percent
reflecting, in part, the acceleration of invest-  in volume terms over the 1987 level;
ment in the OECD area. Should supplies con-  * The European Community, as trade among
tinue to be tight and strong growth continue in  its members rose by more than 10 percent in
the industrial countries, prices can be expected  volume in 1988; and
to remain firm, at least in the short run.   * North America, as trade flows between the
For the year as a whole, average annual oil  United States and Canada increased by more
prices were down by about 20 percent, al-  than 12 percent, while U.S. exports to Mexico
though they began to recover after the OPEC  rose more than 40 percent in volume terms.
production agreement of November 1988.       According to rough estimates, trade was
Prices were also strengthened by the agree-  especially vibrant among the newly industrial-
ment, reached in the second quarter of 1988 by  izing economies in 1988, as export volume
non-OPEC oil exporters, to cut back on pro-  advanced 18 percent and imports increased 23
duction by 300,000 barrels a day. The higher  percent. Trade among the NIEs grew by 38
prices of manufactured goods and metal ores,  percent, and the rise in imports from the highly
contrasted against low prices of oil, broadly  indebted countries (55 percent) and other de-
tilted the terms of trade in favor of the nonoil  veloping countries (28 percent) was significant.
producers. Oil exporters experienced a loss of  The NIEs appear to be emerging as potential
17 percent in their terms of trade, while nonoil  engines for export-led growth for a broader
primary-goods exporters registered a gain of 7  spectrum of countries.
percent with, however, wide divergences in   The momentum in world trade could be
results among the nonoil group. Should the  maintained by a successful conclusion of the
upward trend in oil prices continue, however,  current round of GATT trade negotiations (the
this pattern could be offset or even reversed in  Uruguay Round), scheduled for December
1989. Table 2-8 presents a summary of selected  1990. Significant progress was achieved in the
global indicators of prices and costs relevant to  mid term review process that began with a
development.                               meeting of trade ministers in Montreal, Can-
ada, in early December 1988.
World Trade Volume Increase                  The meeting achieved consensus on a large
In 1988, world trade increased by about 9  number of specific agenda items, including pro-
percent in volume (see Table 2-9). Trade in  posals for immediate implementation of conces-
manufactures was particularly strong (over 10  sions by the developed countries on tropical
percent), as it responded to an investment and  products, strengthened rules for the settlement
consumption boom in the industrialized coun-  of disputes, and a new GATT mechanism for
tries. Among the developing countries, the  the review of trade policies. A framework for
principal beneficiaries of this trade increase  further discussion on services-technically not
were those countries that had reoriented their  under GATT-was also agreed. Because of
export composition toward manufactures, to-  fundamental disagreements in four key areas,
gether with some metal exporters. (Exporters  however-agriculture, textiles and clothing, in-
of manufactures include the NIEs of East Asia,  tellectual property, and safeguards-all the
as well as their "second-tier" competitors,  agreements were put on hold until another high-
such as Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand.)  level meeting in April 1989 in Geneva. Some
Notable among those with a decreased share  countries (Australia, Austria, Finland, Japan,
in global trade were the exporters of tropical  and New Zealand) announced that they would
beverages, mostly in Africa, and the stagnating  apply unilaterally their tariff-cutting offers on
economies of the highly indebted, middle-in-  tropical products effective immediately.
come countries, largely in Latin America. Mid-  Following a period of intense diplomatic
dle-income economies increased their imports  activity led by the GATT's director-general,
by 13 percent above the 1987 level; among  the progress of the Round was unblocked by
these, the highly indebted countries increased  agreements on the outstanding issues at the
their imports by 8 percent, following two years  April 1989 high-level meeting of the Trade
of import contraction (see Table 2-10).    Negotiations Committee. In agriculture, it was
An emerging trend toward greater concen-  agreed that there was to be a "substantial
tration of trade flows within regions of the  progressive reduction in agricultural support



World Trade Volume Increase  33
Table 2-10. Selected Trade Performance Indicators, 1965-88
ataerage inrual percenltge chang'
19h'_i,,       I"M'-Sh        t9&'          t%S'
Lown- eiruil-rud  :dve- er 'hhIarJE s
Impor volume                           h tl           (14          h64            114
Export volume                          4 -6 2                        '.99
Export unit value iSi                  13 8          -4.t)          12.4          6.3
Term;s of trade                         1 4          -'2.1 !9                     1.1
Purchasing powevr of exports           6 2             4 1)         8.9           1 1.0
.AtiddlE .I,n,cn,e c.oi.nlrie'
Import volume                          h I           -I 3           9.'          1.s
Export volume                           1 '            h.1            4           Iii '
Export unit 'alue iSv                 14-            -4 3           129           6.4
Terms ot trade                          Ii            -              I v.          I
Purchasing po%%er Of exports           hS             13            9 4           1 1 N
Import volume                            t             94          - '             ' 
Export volume                          4                            4 4 4          42
Export unit t.'iue St                                -1.9           9             55
Terms ot trade                        -h              -tl 7        -,, 4t         1 I
Purchu%invr power of exports   '       2I               9           4 II           S 3
Import %olume                          5.5 -5.                     -0 I           ,t II
Export volume                           I        I      .           2 -hi
Export unit alue i$S                  If..h          -5.4          I1 l U'J
Termv ot trade                         3.5           -2              1 4         -t) 6
Purcha,ng potter ot export.            4 -           -lz            4 I            5. 4
Sul- S a/wv: iv, -U, a 
Import tolume                          7.5           -8'           -5.I          -11.3
Export %olume                          0.              I 5         - 3.81 S 
Export unit %alue iSv                  13            -r 3           111.3         lIt
Terms ofltrde                           4             -5 I           l.5         -33
Purchasing po%ter of exports           4.9           -3 -          -2 4           (1.2
NoTE. Term. E tr,de are clCulalHed at iC ramat) e. c\nprl prlcc to .ripLtrrpe Pu rch.al.ng pot,vr vt etporTi; 4 CIicalIued
j, the ierms o, irade rime, e pr' vorlme
a. Etvima'ed 4- l  end Juine 19,9v
SCURCE TIhe \% 'rld Bank,
and protection." The process and the timing   administrative procedures under antidumping
are to be determined during the remainder of  laws, has grown. Relatively restrictive nontar-
the Round. On trade-related aspects of intel-  iff barriers cover 18 percent of industrial-
lectual property rights, it was agreed to exam-  country nonpetroleum imports, 62 percent of
ine the rules: Only at the end of the Round will  clothing imports, and 56 percent of iron and
it be decided whether such rules will be imple-  steel-products that developing countries ex-
mented through GATT or in the World Intel-    port. The income cost to the developing coun-
lectual Property Organization. As for safe-   tries of industrial-country restrictions may be
guards, on which discussions have been in     almost twice what these countries receive in
progress for more than fifteen years, it was  official development assistance. The Uruguay
agreed to allow the drafting of a comprehen-  Round, therefore, presents a major opportu-
sive agreement for negotiations.              nity to tackle these problems.
Despite the progress on tariff-cutting in past  Other developments in north-south trade in-
multilateral trade negotiations under GATT,   clude significant modifications to GSP schemes,
many nontariff barriers remain, and the ten-  with, on the one hand, modest improvements in
dency to use so-called gray-area measures,    product coverage, extent of tariff cuts, and
such as voluntary export restraints, as well as  rules of origin, and, on the other hand, the



34   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
elimination of a number of countries from the  The past year witnessed a variety of devel-
benefits of the scheme. Negotiations are under  opments regarding the state of the world's
way for the fourth Lome Convention, and pro-  environment. On the one hand:
posals are before the United States Congress to  * Additional evidence became available sup-
expand the Caribbean Basin Initiative.      porting the view that there is not only an
ongoing worldwide depletion of the strato-
Environmental Issues to the Fore            spheric ozone shield but also "holes" in the
Environmental issues received increasing  ozone shield appearing seasonally in the Ant-
emphasis during 1988. High-income countries,  arctic and, possibly, the Arctic;
in particular, showed heightened awareness of  * Concern increased that global warming,
the impact of environmental degradation on  related mainly to fossil-fuel combustion (5.5
the quality of life, but virtually all countries see  billion tons of fossil carbon were released into
many of the problems in a global context.  the atmosphere in 1988), as well as deforesta-
The level of economic activity has grown  tion. may already be under way.
tenfold during this century, while population  * The oil spill off the Alaskan shore dramat-
increased threefold over the same period. As a  ically highlighted the mutual vulnerability of
consequence:                                the environment and economic activity.
* The quality of the air, water, and soil has  On the other hand:
deteriorated as the process of production world-  * Forty-five countries and the European
wide has begun seriously to affect the ecosys-  Communities signed the Montreal Protocol to
tem.                                        the Convention for the Protection of the Ozone
* The volume of waste has reached alarm-  Layer, which calls for a 50 percent reduction in
ingly high levels, and its disposal has become a  the consumption of chlorofluorocarbons by the
major political, social, and economic issue in  year 1999. As of early March 1989, thirty-five
many countries; in particular, the rising levels  countries and the European Communities had
of production of hazardous or toxic materials  ratified the Protocol, as well.
are leading to an increasing number of serious  * The governments and the European Com-
accidents and are posing grave threats to hu-  munities represented at the first meetings of
man health and the environment.            the parties to the Vienna Convention and the
* There is concern that emission of pollutants  Montreal Protocol, meeting in Helsinki in early
is causing long-term effects, such as depletion  May 1989, agreed to phase out the production
of the ozone layer and climatic modification.  and consumption of chlorofluorocarbons con-
Industrialized  countries and  developing  trolled by the Montreal Protocol as soon as
countries often differ in their perspective on  possible but not later than the year 2000, and,
the environment, which leads them to assign  for that purpose, agreed to tighten the time-
differing priorities to programs. Environmental  table agreed upon in the Montreal Protocol,
problems faced by the developed and develop-  taking due account of the special situation of
ing countries are similar in that both face the  the developing countries.
degradation of air, water, and land and, to a  * The 1985 Helsinki protocol to the 1979
large extent, by the same pollutants. However,  Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air
these problems differ in their economic source  Pollution, to reduce by 1993 sulphur emissions
(growth and "overdevelopment"5 as opposed   or transboundary fluxes by at least 30 percent
to lack of growth and poverty), as well as in  of the 1980 levels, was ratified by the neces-
their scope and significance-deterioration of  sary sixteen countries.
the quality of life as opposed to survival itself if  * Some progress was made on the issue of
the natural-resource base were to be destroyed.  toxic-waste exports in the form of a compro-
Development is thus associated with joint im-  mise treaty, backed by 105 countries in the
provement in both economic and environmental  Basel Conference. While the treaty did not ban
conditions.                                 the cross-border transport of toxic waste, it
It is also becoming increasingly clear that  requires the government of any exporting
preventing environmental degradation in the  country to obtain a prior written permission
developing countries is closely tied to alleviat-  from the government of the receiving country.
ing poverty, which is a priority for the World  * There was increased recognition by the
Bank. There is recognition that environmental  international development community of the
degradation results from both developmental  statement articulated in Manila in early 1989 by
activities and actions induced by the very lack  the World Bank's president, that "the objec-
of development. This view is epitomized in the
statement by the late Indian prime minister,  It is estimated, for instance, that between 80 percent and
Indira Gandhi, that poverty is the worst pol-  90 percent of the increase in carbon dioxide levels in recent
luter.                                       decades is caused by energy production.



Environmental Issues to the Fore  35
tives of sustainable economic growth, poverty  tially from the industrialized-country model.
alleviation, and environmental protection are  Every opportunity will be taken to ensure that
mutually reinforcing." For example, several  renewable and nonrenewable resources are
bilateral and multilateral development agencies  managed efficiently. In particular, prospects
are now, as a standard procedure, assessing  for continued economic growth depend heavily
the environmental effects of development   on the avoidance of the undue energy intensity
projects that they help to finance.       that has characterized development in the in-
The Bank is taking steps to improve its  dustrialized countries.
performance in this regard, putting increased  The environment is clearly perceived as a
emphasis on establishment of policies and pro-  global resource. An important question is how
cedures that will mitigate or eliminate adverse  to finance the global response and execute it
effects of its development projects and pro-  efficiently. Greater political interaction be-
grams and enable the Bank to play an increas-  tween the developed countries and the devel-
ingly constructive role in promoting environ-  oping countries is evidently needed in order to
mentally  beneficial activities.  Additional  devise mutually reinforcing policies, both for
emphasis on energy conservation and effi-  financing and program implementation. The
ciency and special measures to protect and  Bank participates in international discussions
manage tropical moist forests, encourage land  in areas such as toxic wastes, global climate
and soil management, and promote conserva-  change, and ozone depletion that anticipate
tion, are important elements in the Bank's  this increased interaction.
overall environmental effort.
The Bank is also ready to help governments
develop patterns of growth that differ substan-



36
.tH';-'~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                         .. i*i,d- r' 
]~~~~K                                        -= 
jf iv xe-
Inspecting an irrigation canal in the Beni Suef area of Egypt for bilharzia-transmitting snails.



37
Section Three
The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
The increased commitment of resources and   * Increased assistance, through policy ad-
instruments provided to the World Bank by its  vice and lending operations, in the highly in-
shareholders in fiscal 1988-through approval  debted, middle-income countries that are un-
of a general capital increase for the Interna-  dertaking measures of adjustment;
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-   * Expansion of assistance to the low-income
ment (IBRD), the launching of an eighth (and  adjusting countries of sub-Saharan Africa;
largest in nominal terms) replenishment of re-  * Integration of environmental consider-
sources of the International Development Asso-  ations into the mainstream of the Bank's policy
ciation (IDA), increased cofinancing, through  and operational work; and
the special program of assistance (SPA), in   * The launching of an action program de-
support of the debt-burdened, low-income ad-  signed to provide for an increased role of the
justing countries of sub-Saharan Africa, and the  private sector in the Bank's developing member
establishment of the Multilateral Investment  countries.
Guarantee Agency (MIGA)-were put to use in   In fiscal 1989, commitments by the Interna-
fiscal year 1989 to enhance the Bank's efforts in  tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
several key areas:                          ment and the International Development Asso-
* The reduction of poverty in every region of  ciation, and approvals by the International
the developing world;                       Finance Corporation totaled $23,076 million.
Figure 3-1. IBRD and IDA Lending, by Lending Instruments,
Fiscal Year 1989
-,re:I: ~ ~ ~    I iIAi'fT or:i      N         f-I:
_irj I o .r :Tl.-riTn-.   ra  Ir..  UI
EnrrNrl,eern:  r..TiJn  .,|
i                             '
Se.l^r-alj-xrnlerl!  .>,-,f   X   W :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rrOI



38   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
That amount was $2,585 million higher (13  percent from fiscal 1988 amounts (see Figure
percent) than the previous year's record of  3-2).
$20,491 million. Commitments by the IBRD     In fiscal 1989, 131 IBRD-assisted and IDA-
were $16.433 million, up II percent over fiscal  assisted projects involved cofinancing funds,
1988 totals: those of IDA-some $4,934 million  amounting to $9.943 million (see Table 4-10).
-increased by II percent over the previous  That amount was $3,536 million higher than in
year (see Figure 3-1). Approvals by the IFC,  the previous year. The 131 cofinanced projects
some $1,709 million, were $439 million (35 per-  represented more than half (58 percent) of the
cent) above fiscal 1988 totals.           total number of projects approved during the
A total of 119 IBRD loans were distributed  year.
among thirty-eight countries. One hundred six
IDA credits were approved for projects in forty-  Commitment to Poverty Alleviation
two countries. Thirty-three countries received  The central goal of the World Bank is the
World Bank adjustment loans and credits in  reduction of poverty. Ways to achieve that goal
support of their reform measures. Adjustment  are at the heart of the Bank's activities
lending totaled $5,279 million for the IBRD and  -whether through support for adjustment mea-
$1,162 million for IDA (see Table 3-1). The  sures designed to lay the foundations for sus-
IFC's investments were made in thirty-seven  tained growth. through investment lending, or
countries.                                 through its research and country economic and
Lending for energy-at $3,864 million-led  sector work.
all sectors by volume. Lending for agriculture  Recent estimates indicate that about 950 mil-
and rural development was second, at $3,490  lion people in the developing world live in
million.                                   conditions of poverty. Over half live in the
Of the projects approved in the agriculture  populous regions of South Asia (over 350 mil-
and rural development sector, twenty-five out  lion) and East Asia (about 150 million). Another
of a total of fifty-one were classified as poverty  280 million absolute poor live in largely rural
oriented-that is. where the majority of benefits  areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Even in the Eu-
are expected to accrue to the population in  rope, Middle East, and North Africa region, as
relative or absolute poverty. Two thirds of the  well as the region of Latin America and the
projects in sub-Saharan Africa (fourteen of  Caribbean-despite the predominance of mid-
twenty-one) were so classified.            die-income countries-absolute poverty is esti-
The most active borrowers from the IBRD  mated to afflict about 90 million and 80 million
were Mexico ($2,230 million for six projects),  people, respectively.
India ($2,136 million for ten projects), and In-  Developing countries, with the assistance of
donesia ($1,640 million for nine projects). In  the international community, have done much
terms of commitments, IDA was most active in  over the years to reduce poverty. Significant
India ($900 million for one project), China ($515  strides have been made in increasing per capita
million for five projects), and Bangladesh ($423  income levels in many countries, improving
million for four projects). In terms of the num-  health and nutrition with positive effects on
ber of credits approved, sixty-nine, or 65 per-  reducing infant mortality and increasing longev-
cent, went to sub-Saharan Africa.          ity. increasing educational levels, and putting
During fiscal 1989. gross disbursements by  productive assets into the hands of the poor.
the IBRD to countries totaled $1 1.3 10 million,  But these efforts have not been enough. Al-
down $326 million over 1988 totals. IDA dis-  though it is widely estimated that the proportion
bursements stood at $3,597, an increase of $200  of the developing world's population living in
million from amounts registered in the previous  poverty has declined in recent decades, the
fiscal year.                               absolute numbers of poor people have in-
Commitments to the group of seventeen    creased.
highly indebted, middle-income countries were  In recent years, the World Bank has directed
$8.021 million, as compared with $6,483 million  its efforts to helping borrowers, particularly in
in fiscal 1988. Gross disbursements to these  sub-Saharan Africa and in the highly indebted,
countries amounted to $4,740 million. down  middle-income countries, reestablish precondi-
$666 million over the year before.         tions for growth. The steps the Bank has taken
Commitments to sub-Saharan African coun-  to assist borrowers to adjust and resume growth
tries rose by 34 percent, to $3,925 million, and  are essential for poverty reduction, as well. In
gross disbursements to them increased from  addition, many of the Bank's lending operations
$1,873 million to $2,256 million.         that do not have a direct poverty focus, includ-
IBRD and IDA commitments to the low-    ing traditional lending in sectors such as power
income countries, those with a per capita GNP  and transportation, contain numerous features
of $480 or less, were $10.060 million, up 12  that contribute toward reducing poverty.



Commitment to Povertv Alleviation       39
Table 3-1. \\orld Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal Year 1989
(amounts in1 USS 1il ions)
World Bank finanLing
Country                                             Protect                   IBRD        IDA         I otal
Sector AJdusitent Loane
Aigentia Ia rade pola.v 11                                                  300()          -        300l 0
Ban,ladesh                          Energv sector                              -        175  0      175 0
Bangladesh                          Industrial sector (supplement)             -          2           25
Bolivia                             Financt , sector adjustment
(supplementj                             -         11          11 3
Bui ujid                            Am icultuial servitcs                      -         13 1        33 1
Chad                                Financial rehabilitation                   -          16 2        16.2
Chad                                Transport sector adjutstment               -         60 0        60 0
Ghana                               Financial sector adjustment
(supplement)                             -          6 6         6 6
Kenya                               Industrial sector adiustment
(supplement)                             -         53.7        53 7
Kenya                               Financial sector operation                 -        12) 0       1200
Madagascar                          Public sector adjustment
)supplement)                            -           I 4         1 4
bNal.v'l                            Industrial.trade adjustMent
(supplemcnt)                             -5 2                   5.2
Nfill                               F ducation sector consolidation            -         26 0        26 0
Mexico                              IlduIstrial re,tru,turing                2sO 0         -        250 ti
Mexico                              Financial/trade sector                  500l 0         -        500.0
Mexico                              Itidustrial sector policy                50( 0         -        500 0
NMexico                             Public enterprise rehabilitation         50o 0         -        Si))) 0
Nl,crIa                             Trade and insestment policy              500 0         -         oo (0
Pakistan                            AgrituJure s.cctur adtustment            200) 0        -        20t) 0
Paki'tjr                            I inancial sector adtustment             15  0        -         I s0t 0
Pakistan                            Energy sector 11                         250.(         -        250 0
Pinlinpines                         Financial sector adtustment              300 0         -        300 (
Somalia                             Agricultuire sector adjustment                       70 0        70 0
Tarvania                            Industrial'trade adjustment
(supplement)                                       12 5        12 5
Taiizania                          lhidusiral'tradc adjustment                 -         135.0      135 0
Tunisia                             Agricultiure sectol adLtstMnent 11       84 0          -         x4 i
Venvzuela                           Trade policv loan                       35 0         _          3530
Tota                                                                         3,887 0      728 S      4(615 5
St) icturalA.4duwsient L'uns
Benun                               Structural adjustment I                    -         45 0        45 n
Cameroon                            Structural aditiment 1                   150 0         -         150 0
Costa Rica                          Structural adjustment li                tOlO           -         I) (
Gambia. The                         Structural adjustment 11                   -         23 0        21 (t
Ghlai.                              Niruciiiral adjustment 11                           120 0        12() 0
Guinea-J3issau                      Stlictural idjustineni If                            23 4        23 4
Hoitlilmas                          S ructturai adjustment I                  O 1)         -         i0 (0
Indonesia                           Private sector Osevlopinet              3iO 0          -         s0 0
Lao Peoples
Democratic Republic               Structural adjustmcnt I                    _         40 0        40 0
XIiroc5o                            Structural adjustment I                  2(hO.         -        2O0 0
Mozambique                          Rehabilitation Ill                         -         90 0        90 0
Nvpal                               Structural adiustiment 11                  -         tO 0        6) 0
Seoegal                             Structural adju'ttment 1l]
(sipplemento                             -           5          s s
Togo                                Structural adjustment IlI
(snoplementj                            -          0 I         t I
Uganda                              Economic recoscis (supplinXtD)             -          I7          1 -7
Uganda                              E-coiioinic recovers (supplement)          -         2s 0        25 0
Uruguay                             Strictural adjustment 11                 140 0         -        140 0
Venezucla                           Stiucitiral aIjustnenit 1               402 (          -        402 0
Total                                                                        I 392 ))     43 37      1 8257
Grand total                                                                  5.279 0     1 162 2     6,441 2



40   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
Figure 3-2. IBRD and IDA Lending to the Poorest Countries,
Fiscal Years 1980-89
iLSL rd,lrions. tiscal ',e3rsi                      IBRD amcrncur
C IDA arnc'uriI
~.3 42*y4_316.
3ririai                  AFIQ                  i 
-  9. r5 r, aeq
417
3,30.7             .94.3-, 
sl,eTr'e v.:;re.. ::l,urr,er are .reIr,e,i % : rr,y:s e\ '.rrli p.&r C : prr ;:rr,E cr el: -1$I *;-:lrl 
Some of the ways in which the Bank is    plicitly designed to improve conditions for
assisting developing-country governments to  women.
reduce poverty include:                      * In sub-Saharan Africa, food insecurity is a
*Working with interested governments, the  major dimension of poverty, and the Bank is
Bank is introducing a greater focus on poverty  increasing its emphasis on food security as part
reduction in country-assistance strategies, in-  of new poverty-reducing initiatives. Working
creasing the focus on operations whose direct  closely with governments and the large group of
objective is to promote productive employment  donor agencies already active in these areas,
and expanded access to health care, education,  the Bank seeks to maintain an appropriate bal-
and to physical infrastructure for the poor,  ance between the objectives of attaining long-
including increased attention to operations ex-  term food security through growth-oriented



Commitment to Poverty Alleviation  41
projects and short-term food security through  * Supporting programs to increase the in-
measures to improve the ability of households  comes of the poor, such as public works or
and countries to cope with transitory food inse-  credit schemes. For example, Indonesia's gen-
curity.                                    eral village credit program (KUPEDES), a re-
* The Bank is also helping interested borrow-  cipient of $101.5 million in Bank funds, is mak-
ers by expanding its economic analysis with a  ing small loans (averaging less than $250) for
poverty-oriented focus. Such efforts include the  microenterprise development.
preparation of a number of country studies   The Philippines and India are examples of the
designed to develop poverty profiles and iden-  Bank's recent efforts in Asia to put the poverty
tify policies and interventions to reduce pov-  strategy in a broader context. In these coun-
erty.                                     tries, the Bank is examining the linkages be-
* The Bank's operations that do not have a  tween macroeconomic policies and poverty-
direct antipoverty focus are being monitored to  reduction programs, supporting social and
see that they pay greater attention to the reduc-  infrastructural programs, and seeking to im-
tion of poverty even while dealing with growth  prove coordination between macroeconomic,
and adjustment as their primary concerns.  sectoral, and microeconomic aspects of the
* Efforts are being stepped up to help bor-  poverty strategy.
rowers ensure that the poor are better pro-  The Bank is also preparing two regional pov-
tected during periods of adjustment.       erty-related studies. One reviews what prac-
* An expansion of involvement by nongov-  tices are best in providing health care for the
ernmental organizations (NGOs) in Bank-sup-  poor; the other seeks to identify feasible poli-
ported undertakings is also under way. New  cies, as well as institutional and organizational
opportunities for operational collaboration  approaches, to groundwater exploitation and
with NGOs, within the framework of govern-  distribution that will target poverty groups as
ment policies, are being identified, particularly  beneficiaries.
with those NGOs in developing countries.    In sub-Saharan Africa, most countries face
The relative emphasis on these elements of  severe macroeconomic imbalances; thus, the
the Bank's involvement in poverty reduction  resumption of growth through structural adjust-
varies from region to region.              ment remains the Bank's top priority in the
The Bank's poverty-reduction strategy in  region. With about 280 million people (29 per-
Asia is comprehensive and involves:        cent of the world's poor and two thirds of the
* Agriculture and rural development in   sub-Saharan population) living in absolute pov-
poorer areas through projects such as the one in  erty and with the adjustment process having
China's Shaanxi province, approved in fiscal  taken longer than expected, however, the Bank
1989, which aims to raise farm production and  is increasingly supplementing its growth-ori-
incomes of 180,000 farm families in one of the  ented programs by more direct measures to
country's poorest provinces through expanding  reduce poverty. These include:
and improving irrigated areas, raising crop  * Programs to address the social costs of
yields, increasing livestock and fish production,  adjustment. Of particular importance is the so-
and developing the agroprocessing  sector  cial dimensions of adjustment program, which
through pilot projects. In addition, provision of  is helping several African countries to design
fluoride-free water will enable 75,000 people  and implement-as part of their adjustment
suffering from skeletal fluorosis to recover,  reforms-policies and programs to foster the
partially or fully, from the effects of the disease.  participation of the poor in the process of
* Expanding, improving, and reducing the  growth and to mitigate the social costs of
cost of basic services, health, education, and  adjustment.' Social costs of adjustment are also
nutrition for the poor. For example, Malaysia's  being addressed through Bank-supported multi-
second primary and secondary education-sector  sector compensatory programs in such coun-
project, approved during fiscal 1989, was de-  tries as Chad, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
signed not only to improve educational quality  Madagascar, Sudan, and Uganda. Thus, in
and to increase the efficiency of educational  Guinea, a technical-assistance credit approved
management but also to give priority in new  during the past year will strengthen the ability of
school construction and extensions to existing  the National Commission on Social Policy to
schools in districts where the availability of  plan and implement a series of projects in the
educational facilities is below the national aver-  areas of basic education, primary health care,
age. Particular attention is being given to the  nutrition, employment generation, and micro-
country's poorer states. Similar priority is to be  credit schemes.
given for the use of any savings that might
accrue from the construction program during
project implementation.                    l For details, see page 45.



42   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
* The food-security initiative, which, in ad-  housing investment to the low-income seg-
dition to ongoing efforts to increase food pro-  ments of the housing market.
duction, emphasizes special measures to reach  * Supporting targeted programs. For exam-
vulnerable groups, reduce short-term fluctua-  ple, the emergency social fund in Bolivia is
tions in food supply, and increase effective  funding many targeted nutrition and employ-
demand for food.2                           ment programs primarily to mitigate the social
* Programs, mostly in the social sectors,  costs of adjustment.3 The northeast rural-devel-
which emphasize increased service delivery to  opment program in Brazil, supported by the
disadvantaged groups. In Nigeria, for example,  Bank over a number of years, is seeking to raise
a health and family-planning project for Imo  the productivity and standard of living of the
state, approved in fiscal 1989, has been de-  rural poor through provision of agricultural ex-
signed to strengthen the capacity of local and  tension, credit, agroprocessing services, pota-
state organizations to plan, implement, and  ble water, health care, and primary education.
monitor community-based health, family-plan-  The Bank has recently completed a compre-
ning, and nutrition activities. Services in rural  hensive poverty study for Mexico and is pro-
areas will be improved by upgrading about   posing a poverty strategy that emphasizes the
sixty  existing dispensaries and maternity  importance of creating an appropriate macroec-
homes into primary health clinics able to pro-  onomic environment for growth and poverty
vide priority maternal and child-health/family-  reduction, as well as the need for distinct mea-
planning services. And a human-resources sec-  sures to deal with urban and rural poverty. A
tor-adjustment credit in Mali, also approved  poverty report for Colombia has also been com-
during the year, seeks to encourage private  pleted. In addition, a review of informal em-
schools so that public resources can be reallo-  ployment is under way to identify ways of
cated toward the poor and to improve the    expanding productive employment opportuni-
equity of the education system by encouraging  ties for the lowest income groups in the urban
primary school enrollments in the poorer rural  informal sector, and a special paper on social
areas and among girls.                      programs for women in the informal sector has
The Latin American and Caribbean coun-    been completed.
tries, in recent years, have faced serious mac-  In Europe, the Middle East, and North Af-
roeconomic imbalances and economic decline,  rica, as in Latin America, macroeconomic im-
which have constrained resources for direct  balances are serious. There are also severe
poverty reduction. Although average per capita  concentrations of poverty-some 90 million
incomes in the region are relatively high, there  people live in absolute poverty (including 40
are severe concentrations of poverty, and about  million in Pakistan)-and social indicators for
80 million people still live in absolute poverty.  the region remain generally poor. The Bank's
The Bank's poverty-reduction efforts empha-  approach to poverty reduction emphasizes re-
size:                                       storing growth through structural adjustment
* Improving the efficiency and equity of  and addressing the social costs that may arise,
social sectors. The Bank has initiated three  while supporting direct measures in the social
regional studies. One is assessing the status of  sectors. The Bank is supporting programs to:
nutrition programs with the purpose of sup-   * Mitigate the social costs of adjustment. In
porting improvements in selected countries. A  Hungary, for example, credit is being provided
second is examining the adequacy of existing  for employment-generating investments in man-
social-security programs and the potential for  ufacturing, agroprocessing, and business serv-
reform, including measures to extend cover-  ices in regions suffering unemployment because
age. The third is reviewing the efficiency and  of industrial restructuring. Project support ini-
equity of social spending in ten countries. In  tially is in three northern counties affected by
Argentina, public and social-sector investment  unemployment caused by the restructuring of
reviews have led to technical assistance and  the steel and coal-mining industries. A number
social-sector loans to improve the efficiency  of studies are also planned or are under way to
and equity of programs in health, education,  study the social effects of adjustment programs.
and housing. In the housing sector, the Bank's  A review of institutional and policy options for
involvement in the sector is the logical culmi-  replacing general subsidy programs with tar-
nation of several years of sector-policy dia-  geted interventions is a priority in Tunisia, for
logue with the government, and financial assis-  example.
tance is coming at a time when the sector is
experiencing an acute shortage of investment
funds. By supporting far-reaching reforms of  2 For details, see page 85.
the sector's policies, the Bank is endorsing the  3 For details, see pages 66-67 in the World Bank's 1988
government's objectives of redirecting public-  Annuial Report.



Initiatives for sub-Saharan Africa  43
* Expand and improve delivery of effective       The SPA establishes a framework for mobi-
health, education, housing, sanitation, and wa-  lizing assistance from a variety of sources to
ter-supply services and enhance access of the    eligible countries. The sources include in-
poor to them. For example, a health project in   creased adjustment lending from    resources
Turkey, approved during fiscal 1989, focuses     provided under the eighth replenishment of
on primary health care in ten underserved        IDA (IDA-8); increased cofinancing and coor-
provinces with a population of more than 6       dinated financing from bilateral and multilat-
million. The education-sector loan to Morocco    eral donors for adjustment operations: supple-
emphasizes equitable access to basic educa-      mental IDA adjustment credits from resources
tion, with increased participation of the rural  provided by a share of the investment income
population and of females. A number of pov-      of, and repayments to, IDA; additional re-
erty-related studies have also been initiated. In  sources from the IMF's enhanced structural-
Pakistan, rural water supply, health, shelter,   adjustment facility (ESAF); and greater debt
education, and population activities are impor-  relief. Within the framework, the Bank ac-
tant areas of study. And, in Morocco, the Bank   tively manages the first three components and
is undertaking a major social-sector strategy    monitors all five.
review  to identify priority areas for social      Additional   IDA-8   adjustment    lending.
expenditure.                                     About half, or some $6.2 billion, of resources
available under IDA-8 are slated for allocation
Initiatives for sub-Saharan Africa               to the Africa region. of that amount, $5,736
Since the early to mid 1980s, many sub-        million is earmarked to the twenty-two SPA-
Saharan African countries have strengthened      eligible countries, an amount $3,171 million
their commitment to reform     efforts. These    above commitments to these same countries in
reforms are accompanied by some early signs      the three fiscal years (1985-87) preceding the
of improved    economic   performance. The       establishment of the SPA. IDA disbursements
World Bank, together with the international      to the twenty-two eligible countries are pro-
donor and creditor community, is supporting      jected at $3,800 million for the IDA-8 period
the region's efforts not only through its regular  (fiscal 1988-90), as opposed to $2,239 million
adjustment lending but also through special      during the IDA-7 period.
efforts within wider collaborative frameworks      In fiscal year 1989, IDA commitments to the
such as the special program     of assistance    twenty-two countries totaled $1,903 million; in
(SPA). In addition, the Bank, with other do-     fiscal 1988 and 1987, commitments were $1,902
nors, is sharpening its attention to the social  million and $991 million, respectively.6
aspects of adjustment and development and is       About half of all IDA commitments to the
launching specific initiatives that concern long-  twenty-two countries (46 percent) were for
term development issues.                         adjustment operations: Some $873 million was
Special Program of Assistance.   Details of    approved for twelve adjustment operations and
the launching of the SPA were reported in the    nine IDA supplements in sixteen of the eligible
World Bank's Annual Report for fiscal year       countries as compared with $857 million for
1988. The objective of the three-year (1988-90)  twelve adjustment operations and one supple-
program is to help eligible countries adjust and  ment in twelve countries in fiscal 1988.
grow, while restoring and sustaining normal        Increased cofinancing of adjuistment. In
debtor-creditor relationships. The program pro-  December 1987, eighteen donor governments
vides for substantially increased, highly conces-  and multilateral agencies pledged an initial $6.4
sional. quick-disbursing financing, as well as   billion in concessional. quick-disbursing funds
debt relief on softer terms, to expand import    for adjusting low-income African countries ex-
capacities in adjusting countries.
Donors agreed on three eligibility criteria:    The PFP is a three-year comprehensive report prepared by
poverty (countries could not be eligible to       the national authorities with the assistance of the staffs of
receive IBRD loans), indebtedness (countries      the Bank and the IMF. It identifies the sources of a
in which debt-service ratios of 30 percent or     country's problems. describes the proposed remedies, and
more would be selected for the program), and      provides estimates of the associated financing require-
ments and the role of the major aid agencies.
efforts to adjust (countries had to be currently  Benin, Burundi. Central African Republic. Chad, The
implementing a policy-reform   program, sup-      Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya. Mada-
ported by the Bank and the International Mon-     gascar, Malawi, Mali. Mauritania, Mozambique, Niger,
etary Fund (IMF), and agreement had to be         Sao Tome and Principe. Senegal. Somalia, Tanzania,
reached on a policy framework paper (PFP)).4      Togo, Uganda, and Zaire.
By July 31, 1989, twenty-two sub-Saharan        It should be noted that as of the end of fiscal 1988, only
seventeen countries were eligible for inclusion in the SPA.
countries were eligible for assistance under the  In fiscal 1989, Chad, Kenya, Mali, and Somalia were
program.5                                         added. Benin was added in July 1989.



44    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
periencing debt problems.' These funds were
to be provided through both formal cofinancing       Table 3-2. Allocations of IDA Reflowvs,
of specific IDA-supported adjustment opera-          Fiscal Year 1989
tions and other financing coordinated closely       famounLs in nidllionsi
with these same operations.8 Although not all                                            Fiical 1989
the cofinancing and coordinated financing rep-                                             IBRD
resented additional commitments or additional                             .1illocation,    inlerest
cash inflows to eligible countries, estimates at     Reinon and countr,  LPSI    SDR       i USS,
the time of pledging suggested that at least half   ,ltw
the disbursements of those pledges could be             .h-n.a             h      ;l.
considered as an addition to what the countries        KCfenld             3. '.7  41.4     90.2
would have received from these donors during           Niad'agascar        1.4     1.1       2.3
the period 1988-90 in the absence of the SPA.                              i.1    4.0        B Z
Almost three quarters of cofinancing and coor-         Senege              55     4.         9.2
dinated financing has been pledged as grants,          Tanz.ma            i;.>    9.7       'l.i)
with the remainder highly concessional loans.          Togo                  I    0.1        0.1
By the end of calendar year 1988, donors had          7g.n1 7                   1          . 9
allocated $5.1 billion for cofinancing and coor-                                  -
dinated financing of adjustment operations in          Subtotal             7 h.  66.C)    145.6
the eligible countries, of which signed agree-       Ofhi: r
ments amounted to $2.1 billion and disburse-           Bangladesh          2.i     1.9       4.2
ments totaled $935 million. Donors need to             Bolrid             11.3    9.2        19.9
accelerate these commitments and disburse-             Subtotal           13.8    11.1       I4 I
ments to meet the 80 percent disbursement            Tlal                Ilio.s  7 0        169.7
target required to cover the projected financing
gaps in the eligible countries during the period     a. SDR rigijre. hate been rouLinded lo the nearesi hundred
1988-90.                                             rhou 'and
Supplemental IDA adjustment credits. In
September 1988, the executive directors of the      mitments under the SAF and ESAF arrange-
Bank agreed to a proposal to allocate 10 per-       ments totaled SDR3,008 million (SDRI,962
cent of IDA reflows, plus the investment in-        million and SDR1,045 million, respectively),
come on IDA     donor encashments, to those         while SAF    and ESAF disbursements were
IDA-only countries that had both outstanding        SDR1,002 million and SDR387 million, respec-
IBRD debt (for nonenclave projects) and an          tively.
adjustment program that was being supported           Concessional debt relief.     In  September
by IDA. The allocations will benefit qualifying     1988, creditor governments finalized agreement
countries in proportion to their IBRD interest      on the consensus reached on debt relief at the
payments. Of the ten countries that qualified,      Toronto economic summit, which represented a
eight were in Africa. During the year, $101
million in IDA reflows was allocated to these       ' The eighteen donors that made pledges were Austria,
countries. Table 3-2 shows fiscal 1989 alloca-       Belgium. Canada. Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal
Republic of Germany, Italy. Japan, the Netherlands, Nor-
tions, by country and amount.                        way, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom,
lMF financing from    the ESAF.    Under the       the United States, the African Development Bank, and the
enhanced structural-adjustment facility of the       European Communities (including the European Invest-
IMF, established in December 1987, it is en-         ment Bank).
visaged that about SDR6 billion in new conces-       During fiscal 1989, the SPA also began to develop several
visaged                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~operational procedures to strengthen aid coordination and
sional resources will be made available to help      donor support for policy reform, which, if fully imple-
the IMF's poorest member countries under-            mented. could potentially be as important as the extra
take strong three-year macroeconomic and             financial resources the program is mobilizing.
structural programs to improve their balance-          These procedures include designating working-level
contacts: identifying donors' particular geographical and
of-payments positions and to foster growth.          operational priorities: exchanging more documentation,
These resources supplement the SDR2.7 bil-           including PFPs, on eligible countries and on proposed
lion available under the structural-adjustment       adjustment operations; participation by donors in selected
facility (SAF), which was established in March       appraisal, negotiation, and supervision missions; regular
biannual multidonor meetings to discuss overall progress
1986. Sixty-two countries, of which thirty-four      in implementing the SPA, together with special meetings
are in sub-Saharan Africa, are eligible for SAF      on individual countries or issues; recommending standard
or ESAF arrangements. As of the end of fiscal        procurement and disbursement procedures: and faster,
1989, arrangements under the ESAF and SAF            fuller monitoring of donors' commitments and disburse-
ments,
had been approved for twenty-five of these             The first five procedures are in place, and work is
thirty-four countries. By the same date, com-        progressing on the two remaining issues.



Initiatives for sub-Saharan Africa  45
major breakthrough to reduce the burden of    efforts involve developing and implementing a
official debt in low-income, debt-distressed  comprehensive social policy to alleviate pov-
countries, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. The  erty. They also involve developing programs
agreement permits a range of options to be    and monitorable actions that can not only pro-
drawn up on rescheduling debt-service obliga-  tect the poor during the adjustment process but
tions on nonconcessional debt, allowing credi-  also foster their participation in the growth
tors to choose among lower interest rates (but  process.'°
with somewhat shorter maturities), longer grace  To strengthen the ongoing efforts of donors
and repayment periods (at commercial rates),  and African governments to deal better with
partial write-offs of debt-service obligations  the social dimensions of structural adjustment
during the consolidation period (with the rest  and economic development, a social dimension
rescheduled at commercial rates and shortened  of adjustment (SDA) program was launched in
maturities), or a combination of these options.  December 1987 as a joint undertaking of the
By June 30, 1989, these options had been ap-  World Bank, the African Development Bank,
plied by the Paris Club to eight SPA-eligible  and the United Nations Development Pro-
countries: Central African Republic, Guinea,  gramme." As of June 30, 1989, twenty-six
Madagascar, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Tanzania,   sub-Saharan countries were taking part in the
and Uganda. In the early years, the impact,   SDA program.
compared to conventional rescheduling, will be  At the regional level, the SDA program
limited. But the gains accumulate progres-    supports research to develop a general policy
sively, which is why the consensus was more  framework and empirical methods for assess-
important in addressing the long-term  debt  ing the evolution of living conditions of various
problems of these countries than in providing  population groups during adjustment. The pro-
immediate relief.                             gram also facilitates donor coordination, espe-
The Social Aspects of Adjustment.  Adjust-  cially through joint task forces.
ment-and the growth it seeks to spur-are        At the country level, the SDA program is
necessary to the improvement of social condi-  helping governments design country-specific
tions in the long run. Although growth is     policies and specific action programs to protect
necessary to reduce poverty, it may also not  vulnerable groups and strengthen community
always be sufficient to do so.9 Moreover, al-  development. Operations identified as essential
though many of the poor (farmers, for exam-   include investments in basic physical infrastruc-
ple) do benefit from the adjustment process,  ture and measures to strengthen institutional
the immediate effects of belt tightening have  capacity for social policy planning and for mon-
also raised concerns about the effects of ad-  itoring social conditions on a regular basis.
justment on certain other groups. These con-    At the outset, a country-assessment paper is
cerns have led to parallel and systematic ap-  prepared to assess the poverty situation and to
proaches to ensure that adverse effects of   identify key issues facing the government in
adjustment are mitigated as far as possible.  formulating a poverty-alleviation strategy. The
Parallel interventions aim to protect vulner-  paper also helps define the scope of data
able groups and provide for compensatory      collection required to improve a country's ca-
actions and transitional arrangements. Ghana's  pacity to assess the effect of macroeconomic
"program of action to mitigate the social costs  and sectoral policies on the poor and to moni-
of adjustment (PAMSCAD)," described in last  tor the evolution of household living conditions
year's Annual Report, is one such parallel   throughout the development process.
program that compensates for the short-run      In fiscal 1989, country-assessment papers
damage to some from the adjustment process.   were undertaken for eight countries: Chad,
Similar programs are under way elsewhere, as  C6te d'Ivoire, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mada-
in Cote d'Ivoire, The Gambia, Guinea, Mauri-  gascar, Malawi, Senegal, and Zaire. In fiscal
tania, and Senegal. In parallel interventions,
key services that benefit the most vulnerable  For a report on the findings of the Bank's poverty-
groups are protected from the possible adverse  alleviation task force. turn to page 84.
effects of budget cuts, primarily through pro-  During fiscal 1989. a comprehensive review of the Bank's
tecting public expenditures on key health, ed-  experience with adjustment lending concluded, and the
executive directors subsequently agreed, that programs
ucation, nutrition, and other basic welfare    designed to ameliorate the social costs of adjustment
services.                                      needed further intensification. For details of that review,
Because most parallel actions are extremely  see pages 78-82.
costly to sustain over an extended period of   Other donors supporting the project are Canada. the
time, systematic efforts to reduce poverty need  Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Norway,
Sweden. Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the European
to be included in adjustment programs-and in   Communities, and the International Fund for Agricultural
development programs more generally. These     Development.



46   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
1990, work on country-assessment papers for  Environmental deterioration is a specially
another eight countries is expected to be  disturbing feature in many African countries.
started.                                  Declines in per capita incomes have been as-
Long-term Development Problems. Adjust-  sociated with accelerated desertification, de-
ment is a critical first step in restoring the  forestation, groundwater loss, and air and wa-
economic capacity for longer-term growth in  ter pollution in rural and urban areas. The
the sub-Saharan region. And in countries  Bank is taking steps to build a multisectoral
where governments have pursued reforms vig-  environmental focus into all its operational
orously, there is evidence of improved eco-  work. To achieve this, a multifaceted environ-
nomic growth, recovery of exports, and rising  mental initiative was launched in fiscal 1988.
per capita consumption (see Table 6-3).     One aim is to obtain accurate data on the
Though essential, policy reform is not suffi-  changing status of natural resources in Africa
cient, however, to deal with the longer-term  and to develop tools and methods for providing
development problems of the region.       such information to national decisionmakers in
Economic recovery in sub-Saharan Africa  a useful form. A second is to understand better
starts from a weakened base: Savings and  the technical and socioeconomic factors that
investment ratios are low, real investment is on  influence decisions regarding the use and con-
the decline, productivity lags behind competi-  servation of natural resources at all levels,
tor countries, export volume is stagnating and  from individual farmers and local communities
export composition is narrow, bottlenecks re-  to national leaders. A third is to develop and
main in infrastructure, and the human-resource  improve technologies that promote more effec-
base lacks depth.                         tive and sustainable use of natural resources
Moreover, the long-term trends facing the  for economic development.
region-among them, high population growth   Six environmental assessment/action plans
rates, increasing environmental degradation,  (EAPs) for African countries were launched in
and rising urban unemployment-are daunting.  fiscal 1988, and one more was begun in fiscal
In the long term, only stronger economic  1989. Several regional studies, including case
growth, coupled with specific actions address-  studies, were also started during the year-
ing the most critical and severe constraints,  involving remote sensing, environmental man-
can reverse the trends now in place. To   agement, the monitoring of environmental
achieve this growth, more investments are  change, agroforestry, tribal peoples, wildlife,
needed to rebuild and broaden the economic  pests, and the special problems of arid lands.
base for sustained growth.                  The Bank is also focusing on long-term is-
While the World Bank devotes substantial  sues that concern agricultural research and
staff and financial resources to the problems of  extension, food security, education, and ways
adjustment, most of its efforts continue to  to strengthen institutional capacity.
focus on the issues of long-term development.  Research efforts are spearheaded by the
For example, in fiscal 1989, Bank commit-  Special Program for African Agricultural Re-
ments for other than adjustment operations in  search (SPAAR), a multidonor effort set up in
sub-Saharan Africa amounted to 61 percent of  1985 (for which the Bank acts as the secretar-
the total.                                iat) to strengthen research systems through
While strengthening its investment-lending  improved networking, information sharing,
program, the Bank is giving special emphasis  and direct support for national research ef-
to several areas that need urgent attention,  forts. By the end of fiscal 1989, working groups
especially to help reverse the long-term trends  were in place on networking, the SPAAR in-
that threaten economic recovery and sustained  formation system, forestry research, education
growth. Two areas, in particular, have been  and training, locust research, and small grants,
targeted: population and the environment.  as was a coordinating group for Tanzania.
Africa's population is growing at more than 3  Extension work is propelled by designing
percent a year. Unless fertility rates are  projects-now in place in more than twenty
brought down, many countries will approach a  African countries-that incorporate the princi-
rate of 4 percent a year by the end of the  ples of the training-and-visit system to orga-
century. While the consequences of rapid pop-  nize and manage extension services more ef-
ulation growth are obvious at the national  fectively. Food-security action plans were
level, households often perceive large families  begun in eight African countries in fiscal 1989.
to be economically beneficial. A major objec-  They address the need to reach vulnerable
tive of the Bank's efforts in the area of popu-  groups not currently sharing in the growth of
lation is to generate an understanding among  food production, ways to tackle short-term
opinion leaders, the public, and governments
on the issues and relationships in this area. 12  2 For details, see page 112.



The Bank and the Heavily Indebted, Middle-income Countries  47
Table 3-3. Net Translers by the W%rorld Bank ho Sie%enteen Highl) Indebled.
Nliddle-income Countries
inidli,or  of LS doIljrr. IiS;JI ,eal l
ILen]1>'                                         >            '#          u'          1'4t
IBRD dnd IDA .comniiIments         il,i        h.-lPJ       ,4S) 2     s.I'!l2       1X 1.1
Gross disbur'emrenh              4.'11.8       h. .I . I               4 41lS  4734\J  'II1.49t1
Repa%vments                      I 1X.         2,21.' 4     3 4Y21  2 ' 3.4t X       11    4
Net dishurrements                 I              1 ..42 -   i 1 ,. I    I. l  fi     .i SX4 4
lnlere,i and ch .rges            1 9.4                X       1s1 _     .1 I'J 2     11.932 ')
Net transfer                       3 I-h I                 - I.2'( 4  -- I 'i e.     - 2.ii9S II
NI-TE- Sae le .'k 1 tot .LLr. c,i-0irrr 1..r
fluctuations in food supply, and means by          In fiscal 1989, twelve adjustment operations
which purchasing power can be created to         (including one supplement) in the seventeen
match increased food supply with increased       countries were approved for an aggregate
effective demand for food."3 Finally, as a fol-  amount of $4,056.3 million, an increase of
low-up to the recent World Bank education        $1,446.3 million over fiscal 1988 amounts.
policy paper, twenty-five donors to African        Investment operations in these countries
education have agreed to take concrete steps     totaled $3,965 million, as compared with $3,873
to improve coordination through task forces,     million in fiscal 1988. Much of the content of the
special background studies, and externally       projects was oriented toward sector-investment
funded action programs on the mobilization of    programs,   maintenance,   and  high-yielding
human and financial resources, education sta-    projects.
tistics, textbooks, and school examinations        Amortization payments on a growing vol-
and certification. 4 Parallel and complemen-     ume of outstanding debt, as well as the effects
tary to this effort in the education sector, the  of exchange-rate adjustments on the currency
Bank is preparing to help to strengthen African  pool used in Bank lending, raised the dollar
capacity for macroeconomic policy analysis       value of repayments. As a result of these
and management.                                  factors, total net disbursements declined from
$1,913 million in fiscal 1988 to $1,194 million
The Bank and the Heavily Indebted,               during the past year. For the period, fiscal
Middle-income Countries                          1986-89, net disbursements have amounted to
During fiscal year 1989, the Bank continued    almost $9 billion, or for an annual average of
to provide financial support to seventeen heav-  $2,209 million; over the same period, gross
ily indebted, middle-income countries through    disbursements averaged $5,123 million. (See
increased  operations, particularly  fast-dis-   Table 3-3).
bursing, policy-based lending; intensified its     While the Bank's efforts in these areas have
policy dialogue with these countries; main-      been pursued vigorously, success in restoring
tained a high level of investment-lending oper-  growth ultimately depends on a debtor's own
ations; continued its efforts to alleviate pov-  willingness and ability to implement adjust-
erty and cushion the impact of adjustment on     ment programs and on the support of other
the poorest groups; and increased its assis-     creditors, both directly, through capital flows,
tance in mobilizing financial support from com-  and indirectly, through debt relief.
inercial and official lenders."5
While the Bank's approaches to other highly   '` The findings of the World Bank's task force on food
indebted, middle-income countries (in the Eu-      security in Africa are detailed on page 85.
rope, Middle East, and North Africa region, as   "4 See the World Bank Anntial Report for fiscal 1988, pages
well as in the Latin America and the Caribbean     69-71, on the issues covered by the education policy
region) correspond closely to those being un-      paper.
dertaken in the group of seventeen countries,     5 The seventeen countries include Argentina, Bolivia, Bra-
zil, Chile, Colombia. Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire. Ecuador.
the pace of reform in some of these countries      Jamaica, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria. Peru, the Philippines,
has been variable, and, in these cases, the        Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. While these seven-
Bank's operations have been put on hold,           teen constitute the base data in this section, there are other
Should lending prospects improve, the Bank         countries with large debt burdens that confront many ofthe
same economic-management challenges and that the Bank
will respond with appropriate resource deploy-     is actively supporting through policy advice, adjustment
ment.                                             lending. and external-resource mobilization.



48   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
The implicit "contract" in the debt strategy,  favorable external environment, expanding
as it has evolved since 1982. envisioned a  trade flows, and avoidance of protectionism
sharing of the burden: adjustment by the debt-  was underscored by the board.
ors, increased lending by official creditors in  The directors also agreed that debt and debt-
support of adjustment, and provision of ade-  service reduction instruments should assume a
quate resources by private creditors. The strat-  significant role in the evolution of the debt
egy was relatively successful in buying time; it  strategy, but that these innovations should be
facilitated the strengthening of the interna-  implemented on a case-by-case basis and in
tional financial system and reduced the risks  conjunction with adequate adjustment pro-
for commercial banks. But restoration of    grams. This new approach should be used,
growth in debtor countries has proved to be  where justified, in addition to a continuation of
difficult. Fiscal year 1989 brought proposals  the new-money process. There was agreement
-from France, Japan, and the United States-  that application of new measures should not be
to review and strengthen the debt strategy  limited to an arbitrary list of debtors, but
through stronger emphasis on voluntary debt  should be open to any country that satisfied
and debt-service reduction as a complement to  established criteria. Small countries should
new lending by commercial banks, new invest-  have equal opportunity with large debtors to
ment, adjustment measures, and the repatria-  benefit from proposed measures, but that, in
tion of flight capital.                    the spirit of a case-by-case approach, relief
In early 1989, against the backdrop of general  should be adapted to the specific needs and
reconsideration of the debt strategy, the execu-  situation of each participant.
tive directors of the Bank met as the committee  The executive directors recognized that the
of the whole to discuss the evolution of the  Bank should play an important role in the
strategy for dealing with the heavily indebted  evolving debt strategy. The Bank would con-
countries and the Bank's role in that strategy.  tinue to exercise its primary responsibility for
A number of factors were analyzed that had  helping countries design and implement struc-
impeded the satisfactory implementation of the  tural-adjustment programs in relation to any
debt strategy from the point of view of the  additional debt relief that might be offered. It
commercial banks, the official sector, and the  would also be expected to commit certain
debtors themselves. These included divergent  portions of its resources to facilitate debt and
interests of banks, difficulties in negotiating  debt-service reduction as appropriate. Direc-
reform programs, and some unfavorable exter-  tors emphasized that close collaboration be-
nal factors.                               tween the Bank and the IMF was essential,
Despite a movement toward reconsideration  particularly on debt issues."6
of the strategy, the Bank stated that the four  In April 1989, the Interim and Development
fundamental principles of its debt strategy  Committees, meeting in Washington, D.C.,
would continue to include:                  agreed that the Bank and the IMF should
* One, that the primary objective is to re-  provide support for voluntary, market-based
store growth in debtor countries so as to re-  debt-reduction transactions.
verse their falling standards of living and to  The framework supported by the Develop-
ensure a return to normal access to interna-  ment Committee represented a particularly im-
tional capital markets.                     portant step forward in achieving a consensus
* Two, that the primary responsibility rests  on the role of debt reduction. The committee
with the debtor governments to undertake ad-  agreed that a portion of the funds allocated by
equate structural-adjustment and reform pro-  the Bank for quick-disbursing adjustment oper-
grams to ensure the continued viability of  ations in heavily indebted countries should be
economic growth without excessive depen-    set aside to support debt-reduction operations.
dence on external resources.                It was proposed that a similar portion of ex-
* Three, that to be successful, effective ad-  pected IMF programs also be set aside for this
justment programs would require adequate net  purpose. The committee requested the Bank
flows of external resources in a timely manner.  and the IMF to "examine the possibility of
* Four, that adjustment programs and their  limited interest support for transactions involv-
external support would have to be negotiated  ing significant debt or debt-service reduction."
on a case-by-case basis, taking into account  The committee also requested the Bank and
the scope for accelerated debt reduction and  the IMF to move expeditiously to develop and
related financing arrangements.             implement specific proposals to support debt-
The executive board reaffirmed these funda-  alleviation operations, and stressed that this be
mental principles and stressed that issues of
poverty alleviation and social equity could not  6 Subsequently, ajoint Bank-IMF task force was created to
be ignored in the process. The importance of a  speed implementation of the debt strategy.



The Bank and the Heavily Indebted, Middle-income Countries  49
done in a way that would preserve the financial  * General agreement was reached that the
integrity of the Bank and the IMF and not  funds to support debt and debt-service reduc-
adversely affect other members.           tion would normally be made available as com-
Following up on the Development Commit-  ponents of adjustment rather than investment
tee's request, in late May, the executive direc-  loans. There would be flexibility in the alloca-
tors discussed and approved initial guidelines  tion of these funds among tranches of adjust-
and procedures to be used in preparing IBRD  ment operations in order to promote efficient,
operations in which the Bank would provide  market-based solutions. Significant 'frontload-
support for debt and debt-service reduction.  ing" would be considered only where there was
* It was agreed that all member countries  strong economic performance and a clear need
that had a clear need for debt or debt-service  in terms of the debt-reduction program. In cases
reduction to achieve reasonable medium-term  in which the Bank did not have a substantial
growth objectives and that had adopted a  adjustment-lending program, Bank support for
sound medium-term economic policy frame-  debt or debt-service reduction would generally
work would be eligible for Bank support. Sup-  be provided through special operations devoted
port would be decided on a case-by-case basis,  to debt reduction that would have appropriate
taking into account the strength of the medium-  policy conditionality.
term adjustment program, the severity of the  * The executive directors' approval of the
debt burden, the scope for voluntary market-  Bank's support of a debt or debt-service reduc-
based operations, the medium-term financing  tion operation would be required in all cases.
plan, and the potential benefits from Bank  Upon approval, the member country con-
support, particularly for investment and  cerned would be authorized to draw on the
growth.                                   Bank for support for debt and debt-service
* Second, although the level of Bank sup-  reduction in accordance with the terms agreed
port would also be determined on a case-  with the Bank.
by-case basis, it would involve a figure of  * Although it was expected that the resources
around 25 percent of a country's adjustment-  from the Bank and the IMF would be, in aggre-
lending program over a three-year period or  gate, of broadly comparable size, and be pro-
around 10 percent of its overall lending pro-  vided under mutually consistent modalities,
gram where the Bank was concentrating its  each institution's contribution would be deter-
support on investment lending and where the  mined by its own judgment arrived at through
country had an acceptable medium-term eco-  established decision-making processes.
nomic-policy  framework.  Directors  also   * It was understood that, as a contributor to
agreed that, where justified, additional re-  the financing of the debt-reduction program
sources up to 15 percent of the overall three-  under negotiation, the Bank needed to be sat-
year lending program could also be made avail-  isfied that its own materiality criteria were
able. While the additional amount of 15 percent  being met. These criteria would require, in
would be regarded as a limit, it would be  particular, that transactions supported by the
possible to exceed it on the basis of special  Bank should result in a substantial discount
justification if the excess amounts were de-  leading to a significant reduction in the present
ducted from the lending program so that such  value of future debt-service obligations.
an excess would not result in a further increase  Directors emphasized the importance of the
in the net commitment of the Bank. Additional  Bank obtaining assurance that there was ade-
lending by the Bank would not be more than $6  quate financial support for a country's adjust-
billion for the three-year period, fiscal years  ment program in order to be confident that its
1990-92.                                  own contribution would be used effectively in
* The set-aside funds would be used to sup-  concert with other support to achieve the ob-
port operations involving significant principal  jectives of the medium-term program. It was
reduction, and the additional funds would be  recognized, however, that the Bank may con-
used for interest support in connection with  tinue its adjustment-lending activities where a
debt reduction or debt-service reduction.  country is on track on its adjustment program
* It was also agreed that the Bank should  but not in servicing its obligations to private
provide support for debt and debt-service re-  creditors, and where a significant delay in
duction primarily through direct lending ar-  Bank disbursements would seriously set back
rangements, on normal IBRD terms, that the  the country's adjustment program.
borrower would use for approved debt-reduc-  Directors also stressed the importance of
tion and credit-enhancement programs. Guar-  ensuring that debt-reduction operations sup-
antees of interest payments would not be used  ported by the Bank would release resources for
unless there were exceptional circumstances  investment and other uses that would make a
providing strong justification.           material contribution to a country's develop-



50   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
ment prospects. Program objectives should  proceeds for debt reduction under similar
include measures to promote domestic savings  terms and obligations.
and investment, complemented by appropriate
policies to encourage direct foreign investment  Environmental Activities
and capital repatriation. Recognizing that Bank  Considerable progress was made in fiscal
resources for debt and debt-service reduction  year 1989 in integrating environmental con-
were limited, directors agreed that every effort  cerns into the mainstream of the Bank's oper-
should be made to mobilize additional support  ational and policy work; these concerns now
from other sources, including from the debtor  pervade Bank operations, policy and research
country's own resources.                  evaluation, training and information activities,
In setting the guidelines, the executive board  and, through increasing the availability of en-
stressed that debt-reduction operations should  vironmental information about its projects and
not, in any way, adversely affect the availabil-  programs, external relations.
ity of Bank resources to other borrowers,   Operational activities. A major thrust of
many of whom also had debt burdens but had  the Bank's environmental policy has been the
succeeded in maintaining market access. The  introduction of more explicit considerations of
Bank should seek to provide other forms of  environmental issues into its country program-
support for these countries. In this context, the  ming and economic-policy dialogue. As a
directors noted that the proposed program  means of fostering this process, environmen-
could be accommodated in the current capital  tal-issues papers (EIPs) are being prepared for
structure of the Bank and reiterated that no  each of the Bank's borrowing member coun-
country should be disadvantaged as a result of  tries. This process is intended to heighten
the program.                              awareness within the Bank of environmental
The approaches that were introduced broke  issues, to clearly delineate responsibility for
new ground for the Bank and will be adapted  addressing them in country operations, and to
flexibly and with particular care to the special  achieve a consistent approach to their solution.
circumstances of individual borrowers. The  The papers are intended to be internal docu-
executive directors, therefore, agreed that it  ments that identify key environmental prob-
would be important to closely evaluate the  lems, to be assessed within the context of
guidelines and conduct an initial review toward  planning overall country strategies.
the end of the calendar year.               Environmental-issues papers were prepared
for about seventy borrowing countries during
*     *     *                the year. Several papers had been completed in
fiscal 1988, and the remainder are scheduled to
In mid June, three adjustment loans to Mex-  be completed in the early months of fiscal
ico-in support of reforms in the public-enter-  1990. Priority topics identified in the EIPs
prise, financial, and industrial sectors-in the  include all the major issues in the environmen-
amount of $500 million each were approved.  tal spectrum: watershed erosion and upland
The loan documents covering these three op-  degradation, deforestation, loss of biological
erations provide that a $125 million amount be  diversity, soil and land management, air and
set aside under each loan, separated from the  water pollution, urban sanitation and waste
normal tranching arrangement, to support a  disposal, environmental health, the protection
debt-reduction plan acceptable to the Bank to  of cultural property, marine and coastal zone
be agreed by mid December 1989. If no debt-  protection, and water-resource management in
reduction plan acceptable to the Bank were  general. Some factors aggravating environ-
agreed upon by that date (or such later date as  mental problems have been identified in many
requested by the borrower and approved by  of the papers, and include population pressures
the Bank), the set-aside amount would be  on resources and legal and policy constraints.
restored to the second tranche amount.    Insecurity regarding property rights, distorted
Also in mid June, two adjustment loans to  economic incentives, and lack of existing insti-
Venezuela-for structural adjustment and in  tutional capacity to tackle major problems are
support of trade-policy reforms-were ap-  often mentioned, as well.
proved in the amounts of $402 million and $353  Complementing the EIPs are a number of
million, respectively. The former includes pro-  in-depth studies of selected key environmental
visions whereby up to 25 percent of quick-  issues in particular countries. The original
disbursing funds ($100 million) may be used to  goal-completion by the Bank of thirty such
support a debt-reduction plan approved by the  studies by the end of fiscal 1992-is well ahead
Bank once conditions for second-tranche re-  of schedule. Bearing in mind that integration
lease had been fulfilled. The latter loan also  into routine operations of the Bank is the
provides for the use of 25 percent of the  ultimate objective, evidence of progress in this



Environmental Activities  51
regard is to be found not only in specifically  sues is required. The complexity of the subject
identified environmental activities, such as en-  and the heavy staffing requirements for ad-
vironmental action plans (EAPs) or country-  dressing a variety of environmental problems
wide environmental studies, but more impor-  are illustrated by a study on Indonesia, still
tant, in the explicit or implicit treatment of the  under preparation, that, stressing the tight link-
environment in the Bank's lending operations.  ages between environment and development,
While a national EAP provides an overall  focuses on four of the most important environ-
strategy, it also makes recommendations for  mental problem areas in the country: deforest-
specific actions, outlining the environmental  ation, land degradation, water shortages, and
policies, legislation, and institutions required  water pollution. A major theme in the report is
for implementation. The EAP, which is ex-  that many resource conflicts can be resolved
pected to be prepared by interested govern-  by increasing the potential of existing re-
ments in collaboration with the Bank, is in-  sources through intensification and greater ef-
tended to provide a framework for integrating  ficiency in resource use.
environmental considerations into a nation's  Several regional studies are under prepara-
overall economic and social-development pro-  tion, and include the capital cities cleanup
grams. EAPs also identify a country's most  project for the Asia region. This is a regional
urgent environmental needs and assist deci-  initiative, supported by the United Nations
sionmakers in determining priorities and allo-  Development Programme (UNDP), that aims
cating limited resources; by their nature, there-  to arrest and begin reversing the process of
fore, EAPs examine the trade-offs involved  environmental degradation that is taking place
between investments and the environment for  in major cities of Asia under the impact of
sustained development. In each of the action  rapid urbanization, industrial pollution, and
plans developed to date, participating govern-  general environmental neglect. A study for the
ments have emphasized one theme: To be    Asia region, highlighting key economic and
successful, environment must be fully incorpo-  environmental issues related to forestry is also
rated into all their major programs.      under way, as is a study of agroforestry prac-
In Africa, based on strong interest expressed  tices in sub-Saharan Africa.
at the country level and among donors, work  The environmental program for the Mediter-
began on six EAPs in fiscal 1988 and contin-  ranean (EPM), a regional study that began in
ued, with one more country being added, in  January 1988, is funded jointly with the Euro-
fiscal 1989. EAPs in early stages of preparation  pean Investment Bank (EIB). The first phase of
include those for Burkina Faso, Ghana,    the study, which builds on extensive work by
Guinea, and Rwanda. EAPs for Lesotho, Mad-  the United Nations Environment Programme
agascar, and Mauritius are at a fairly advanced  (UNEP), consists of an assessment of environ-
stage.                                    mental problems and priorities in the Mediter-
In Madagascar, the first country where the  ranean region-encompassing eighteen coun-
Bank assisted in developing an EAP, the pro-  tries-together with a plan of action covering
cess has already induced modifications in cur-  policy reform, institutional development, and
rent field operations, such as the introduction  investment needs. The second phase will in-
of environmental-impact assessments and   clude the discussion of the EPM findings with
more concern with soil and water conserva-  the countries concerned and with international
tion. The EAP has also paved the way for the  agencies. The third phase is proposed as a
preparation of a major investment program-  three-year program  of studies, institution-
the Environmental I project-in addition to the  building, training activities, and project prepa-
elaboration of legal and policy changes. The  ration to assist the developing countries of the
investment program is to include watershed  Mediterranean to move ahead in addressing
management, protection  and management    environmental needs. The third phase would be
of the Malagasy patrimony of biological diver-  funded by the UNDP, the EIB, and other do-
sity in association with the development of  nors, as well as by the Bank, and would be fully
tourism, the development of environmental-  coordinated with UNEP.
information systems to improve resource man-  Lending operations. About a third of all
agement, institution building, and the develop-  projects approved during the year contained
ment of human resources.                  significant environmental components. Envi-
Although not labeled EAPs, a number of  ronmental issues were particularly significant
studies, conducted during the year in the con-  elements of agricultural and energy projects,
text of normal operational work, addressed  and they were frequently dealt with in other
similar issues. Comprehensive countrywide  sectors, as well.
EAPs are less appropriate for larger countries,  Some three fifths of the agricultural projects
where greater selectivity of environmental is-  approved in fiscal 1989 contained environmen-



52   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
tal components. Across regions, some of the  rehabilitation and upgrading of water-supply or
more frequently found environmental elements  sewer systems, the expansion of distribution
in agricultural projects included land and soil  networks, drainage, institutional reforms,
management and conservation, pesticide han-  training, and technical assistance.
dling and use and the introduction of integrated  The Bank has traditionally taken steps to
pest-management techniques, forest protection  ensure that its industrial projects are designed
and management, wildlife management, drain-  to minimize adverse environmental effects.
age and irrigation rehabilitation, institutional  This continued in fiscal 1989, as exemplified by
support, and development of research.      an industrial-finance and technical-assistance
More than half of all energy and power   project in India. Through relending by partici-
projects approved during the year contained  pating financial institutions to subborrowers, a
environmental elements. These ranged from  multiplier effect stressing the incorporation of
provisions of environmental-impact studies to  strong environmental objectives will be pro-
full environmental projects. Globally impor-  duced. The project also includes the provision
tant environmental issues in this sector are  of technical assistance to the major govern-
pollution control, resettlement, and institu-  ment steel company in designing pollution-
tional strengthening. As in previous years,  control measures.
virtually all energy projects contained loan  Sectors such as urban development, as well
conditions aimed at improving pricing policy,  as population, health, and nutrition, also con-
with a view to enhancing efficiency in energy  tain projects with significant environmental
consumption. Components or measures to     components. The case of population, health,
ameliorate adverse environmental effects are a  and nutrition is particularly important: Al-
feature of most energy projects.           though lending in this sector may not appear to
The energy sector management-assistance  be strictly environmental, population, in fact,
program (ESMAP) also contains significant  is a fundamental factor in any consideration of
operational environmental components. The  environmental problems and their solution.
ESMAP is supported by the Bank, the UNDP,    Project review and supervision. Environ-
and other UN agencies, as well as bilateral  mental monitoring is an important element of
donor agencies, and is designed to identify,  operational work. All projects, for example,
analyze, and propose actions to address the  require clearance from regional environmental
most serious energy problems in developing  divisions. If projects have to be modified, or
countries. ESMAP activities encompass insti-  even abandoned, it is obviously preferable that
tutional, financial, policy, and social issues  this should happen at as early a stage as
affecting energy use and provision, energy  possible. Environmental activities take place
efficiency, traditional  and  modern  fuel  at all stages of the project cycle-from identi-
sources, and renewable energy resources.  fication to supervision, completion, and eval-
Environment, therefore, is a central theme of  uation. The place of environment is perhaps
the overall program. Activities in fiscal 1989  changing most dramatically at the early stages
included the identification and preparation of  of identification and preappraisal. This can be
potential projects in Ecuador in the area of  seen in the increasing number of free-standing
industrial-energy conservation; in India, in the  environmental projects in the pipeline. Over
identification of the most promising sites for  twenty free-standing environmental projects
large-scale windfarm development; improved  are at various stages of the project cycle and
charcoal-kilns production in Burundi; and a  are expected to be submitted for executive
cooking-efficiency project in Ethiopia.    board approval over the next three years.
In the transportation sector, ports projects,  Many others also have significant environmen-
in particular, tend to include environmental  tal elements.
issues in project formulation. Three such port  Sometimes, unexpected environmental prob-
projects were approved during the year, one in  lems need rectification at the supervision stage.
Algeria and two in China. Pollution reduction  In the Punjab urban-development project, ap-
caused by port activities is usually an impor-  proved in fiscal 1988, urban environmental-
tant consideration, as is the minimization of  protection issues were given special attention at
the effects of dredging.                   the supervision stage. It was agreed to develop
Almost all projects approved in the water  a program for addressing these issues, including
supply and sewerage sector during the year  water pollution, solid-waste management, air
contained environmental components. This is  and noise pollution, the institutional frame-
to be expected, as, by their nature, activities in  work, public awareness, and training needs.
this sector are geared toward the improvement  This review was an important step in the iden-
of environmental services. Typical compo-  tification of a new environmental-protection
nents of water and sewerage projects are the  project currently under preparation.



Environmental Activities  53
The effect of structural- and sectoral-adjust-  level soil-conservation measures in the uplands
ment lending on the environment, complex as  of Java. Other products included a manual on
it is to assess, is potentially considerable. By  safe disposal of hazardous wastes, two books
their very nature, adjustment loans go beyond  (Environmental Accounting for Sustainable
the limits of single projects, to affect wide-  Development and Environmental Management
ranging price, subsidy, export, and other poli-  and Economic Development), and a working
cies, which, in turn, may directly or indirectly  paper addressing the "commons" problem.
influence environmental variables. Although it  While ENV provides leadership and general
is difficult to generalize about the overall im-  guidance, much-indeed, the bulk-of policy
pact of adjustment operations, work of this  and research work being done in the environ-
nature does require specific attention to possi-  mental area is conducted by other departments
ble environmental effects. What is often,  of the Bank. The attention given to environ-
though not always, lacking in such lending is  ment in the policy and research work of the
an explicit reference to the likely effects on the  industry and energy department is particularly
environment. Much environmental policy    large. That department's fiscal 1989 program
work and research is already incorporated into  included a study of the policy implications of
nonadjustment lending, and lessons learned  the greenhouse effect for the energy and indus-
from these experiences can be integrated into  try sectors, a handbook on windpumping, a
structural-adjustment and sectoral-adjustment  methodology for assessing the true cost of
loans.                                    biomass resources, a review of environmental
Environmental objectives or issues were ex-  aspects of past Bank power projects, and
plicitly addressed in five adjustment operations  guidelines for energy and use-efficiency pro-
approved in fiscal 1989-in The Gambia,    grams and projects.
Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, the Lao People's Dem-  Other sector departments are also address-
ocratic Republic, and Pakistan-while, in  ing environmental issues in their policy and
other cases, certain loan conditions were in-  research work. While the population and hu-
corporated that are likely to have environmen-  man-resources department work program con-
tal implications. In addition, of the twenty-  tains few activities explicitly related to envi-
eight policy framework papers completed   ronment (exceptions include research on
during the year, almost three fourths contained  public policy and environmental health, and on
explicit reference to environmental or natural-  population growth and water-resource supply
resource issues. Issues raised most often re-  and demand), it is generally accepted that
lated to forestry, energy efficiency, and popu-  control of population growth is fundamental to
lation pressures on natural resources.    the achievement of successful environmental
Policy and research. Fiscal year 1989 also  management. The emphasis upon population,
witnessed an increasing integration of environ-  as well as upon other programs with a direct
mental concerns into the Bank's policy and  bearing on it, such as women's issues and
research work. Activities of the environment  primary health care, make the department's
department (ENV) revolved around three main  program as a whole of central importance to
categories: natural-resource management; en-  the Bank's overall environmental effort.
vironmental quality and health; and environ-  The infrastructure and urban development
mental economics.  In addition to numerous  department has a considerable environmental
in-house papers and reports, publicly available  program, geared primarily to issues such as
books, and guidelines or state-of-the-art re-  municipal solid-waste management, sewage and
views, an interagency report on Conserving  waste recycling, and low-cost sanitation alter-
the World's Biodiversity (in collaboration with  natives. Environment also features in its trans-
the International Union for the Conservation  portation work, and guidelines have been pre-
of Nature and Natural Resources, the World-  pared on environmental considerations in port
wide Fund for Nature, and the World Re-   and harbor development, as well as for road and
sources Institute) was prepared, as well as a  rail transport. The agriculture and rural devel-
review and set of policy recommendations on  opment department is also heavily involved in
dryland management, a review of priority tech-  environmental work. Fiscal 1989 activities in-
nical and policy-research needs for containing  cluded a book on innovations in resource man-
tropical deforestation; and a staff operational  agement and the sustainability of agricultural
directive on lending for dams and reservoirs,  systems; guidelines on dam safety and the envi-
with special attention to environmental consid-  ronment; and analysis of the effect of an import
erations. Sixteen ENV working papers have  ban on tropical-forest products; guidelines on
been published to date and address issues such  the use and applications of pesticides; and a
as environmental degradation in frontier devel-  study of the environmental impact and sustain-
oping economies and the economics of farm-  ability of irrigation investments.



54   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
Evaluation, training, and  information.  provide electronic access to economic and
Studies in the operations evaluation depart-  sector studies through an environmental/eco-
ment are carried out at three levels: individual  nomic bibliography. System  development,
audits, impact evaluations, and special studies.  planned to take place over several years, has
Environmental issues are now addressed in the  begun in all three modules.
course of performance audits and in reviews of  During fiscal 1989, the development of
project-completion reports. In addition, work  ENVIS continued, and the system was ex-
commenced during the past year on two coun-  panded. Data on Bank projects for fiscal 1989
try-specific studies of environmental issues,  were progressively entered, and the files for the
for Brazil and Nepal. The Brazil study exam-  previous two years were completed. Promotion
ines how, and how well, the Bank has per-  of ENVIS and training of potential users will be
ceived and dealt with environmental issues and  expanded in 1990 when three full years of Bank
problems in the context of several large infra-  environmental data will be on file and a user's
structure and regional-development projects  guide will have been completed.
located in several Brazilian states. The overall  The Bank is continuing to cooperate with
approach paper for this study has been final-  international agencies, donor and borrowing
ized, and field work has been completed for  governments, and nongovernmental organiza-
some of the case studies.                 tions (NGOs). Ongoing consultation and/or
During fiscal 1989, the Economic Develop-  collaborative work has been maintained with
ment Institute (EDI) continued to help broaden  several United Nations agencies, as well as
understanding of natural-resource manage-  with the Asian and Inter-American Develop-
ment by bringing together environmental spe-  ment Banks, the Organisation for Economic
cialists, development practitioners, and policy-  Co-operation and Development, and bilateral
makers to share experiences, problems, and  donors. The Bank is also an active participant
solutions concerning policies and programs in  in meetings of the Committee of International
developing countries. In this context, a re-  Development Institutions on Environment.
gional seminar in Latin America was organized  The Bank is also increasingly asking the
during the year.                          NGO community for its views on the Bank's
Continuing EDI's work in energy planning  approach to its environmental work. As part of
and policy analysis, seminars were held in  this process, ENV and the Bank's regional
Zimbabwe and Senegal in October 1988 and  environment divisions have held meetings with
June 1989, respectively. These seminars con-  NGO groups at headquarters and elsewhere to
sidered the environmental effect of current and  keep them informed and obtain their advice on
future consumption on renewable-energy re-  Bank activities.
sources in Africa.                          The Bank participates in a number of inter-
During the year, seventeen major training  national meetings on global environmental is-
sessions, reaching about 450 World Bank staff  sues. On the issue of toxic waste, for instance,
members, were undertaken. These sessions in-  the Bank's interest was first formally ex-
cluded seminars and workshops on the implica-  pressed by its president at a meeting in Oslo in
tions of climate change; environmental econom-  July 1988. Several meetings followed-in Lux-
ics; environmental and safety aspects of large  embourg, Geneva, and Basel-where the Bank
dams; remote sensing and natural-resource  was represented in observer status. The Basel
management; dryland management; pesticides;  meeting ended with the final text of the toxic
municipal and industrial-waste management;  waste convention being adopted for signature
and natural and industrial hazards.       by developing and industrialized countries.
To accomplish the integration of environ-  On the Montreal Protocol regarding the use
ment into the range of Bank activities, a major  of chlorofluorocarbons, the Bank is repre-
requirement is the existence of affordable and  sented on the international economic panel on
accessible information. Starting in September  the ozone layer. A first meeting, under the
1987, the Bank began developing an environ-  auspices of the European Communities, was
mental-information system (ENVIS), drawing  held in Brussels; a second meeting, hosted by
upon both internal and external sources. The  the United States Environmental Protection
objective of ENVIS is to provide Bank staff  Agency, was held in Washington.
with a central source of information about the  The Bank is following the efforts to under-
Bank's activities in environmental fields, as  stand and control the phenomenon of global
well as a tool for analysis, project design, and  warming and the greenhouse effect. Both are
policy development. ENVIS's three modules  under the purview of energy department staff,
are designed to monitor and track Bank envi-  as well as the senior advisor on science and
ronmental projects, provide country-by-coun-  technology. Staff have attended several inter-
try sources of environmental information, and  national meetings on these issues and are pre-



Private-sector Development  55
paring policy papers that will be widely dis-  litical, and social objectives, as well as private
seminated.                                  sectors at varied stages of development; di-
verse approaches. therefore, tailored to indi-
Private-sector Development                  vidual country  circumstances, would  be
A high-level task force's recommendations  sought. Thus, the Bank Group's overall focus
on ways to strengthen the private sector's  would continue to be on efficiency.
contribution to development in the World      Second, although possibilities exist to pur-
Bank's developing member countries has led  sue private-sector development in virtually ev-
to the formulation of an action program that  ery sector and subsector, the program seeks to
intensifies the combined efforts of the Bank  focus on those priority areas in which the
and the IFC, together with the newly founded  Bank. the IFC, and MIGA could make the
MIGA, in pursuit of that goal. "7           greatest difference.
The action program was based on the rec-    Third, since the program calls for action that
ommendations of the report of the Private   can be taken in the short and medium term, it
Sector Development Review Group, a twelve-  focuses on tasks that could be expanded or
member panel chaired by J. Burke Knapp, a   initiated quickly, and which are based on al-
former senior vice president of the Bank. 8 The  ready-known techniques.
group, which included prominent individuals   Fourth, private-sector development involves
from the private sector, as well as Bank staff,  not just more private activity but also ex-
was formed in fiscal 1988 to assess the private-  panded competition and increased government
sector activities of the Bank and the IFC. In  capacity to correct abuses and regulate wisely.
forming the review group, the Bank noted that  Private-sector development should not be as-
there was a "growing recognition" in develop-  sociated with private monopoly power and rent
ing countries of the important role private-  seeking, but with greater use of competitive
sector development can play in contributing to  markets and increased efficiency.
economic development.                        Improving the economic climate. Improve-
The action program, which focuses on activ-  ments in the economic environment are an
ities that can be undertaken in the short and  essential component of any strategy for pri-
medium term, seeks to move quickly in support  vate-sector development. With the expansion
of private-sector activities in four priority areas:  of policy-based lending, the Bank has in-
* improving the economic environment for  creased its emphasis on policies designed to
the private sector;                        improve the efficiency and competitiveness of
* public-sector restructuring and developing-  the private sector and the economy as a whole.
country efforts either to promote public-sector  Improvement takes places not only through
efficiency, to privatize enterprises, or to assist  macroeconomic and sector policy reform, but
interested member countries to expand the pri-  also through legal and regulatory reforms
vate sector's role in infrastructure and services  (most notably cuts in red tape and the stream-
in cases in which expansion could help ease  lining of regulations), revisions in commercial
financial constraints and increase efficiency;  codes, and reform of investment and export
* financial-sector development and expan-  rules and incentives, as well.
sion of the transfer of resources to the private  Under the action plan. World Bank adjust-
sector in developing countries; and         ment operations in support of economic policy
* a program of research and policy work to  reforms will increasingly support policies, reg-
lay the basis for future Bank operations.   ulations, and legal reforms directed specifically
Although the Bank has emphasized for a    at improving the environment for private-
long time the advantages of market discipline  sector development.
and private initiative in promoting efficient  Depending on country circumstances, such
development, its approach did not evolve sys-  operations will, where appropriate, work to
tematically over time. The action program was  remove barriers to entry and exit, revise labor
designed to fill in the gaps in the Bank Group's  laws (in cooperation with organizations such as
activities in private-sector development. inte-  the International Labour Organisation) to re-
grate private-sector development into Bank  duce distortions and the excessive costs of job
operations, identify areas in which efforts
should be intensified, and focus on ways to
improve coordination and joint action among
the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA.
Four considerations helped shape the pro-  17The three institutions, together, are often referred to as
Fouram  consi derations.helped shapethepro- the "World Bank Group:" this is the meaning of the term
gram's final design.                          "Bank Group." as used in this section.
First, the Bank's membership is composed  W'world Bank, Developing the Private Sector: A Challenge
of countries that have different economic, po-  for the Wolid Bank Group (Washington, D.C., 1989).



56   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
creation, simplify and improve the tax system  order to give more room for private activities,
to make it more transparent and less distortion-  and, generally, improve the efficiency of public
ary, change titling laws and procedures to  institutions.
make it easier to establish property rights,  While noteworthy successes have been
improve antitrust legislation, streamline proce-  achieved in some areas, in others progress has
dures for registering and licensing businesses,  been slower than expected. Divestiture mea-
reduce the role of public monopolies by ex-  sures, in particular, have proved difficult to
panding competition, improve business ac-  implement. Progress has been slower than ex-
counting and auditing practices, and strength-  pected for a number of reasons, including the
en governments' capacity to regulate (rather  absence of a framework for deciding on a
than intervene) and to encourage competition  divestiture strategy, a lack of indigenous pri-
and initiative.                             vate entrepreneurs able to acquire and manage
Considerable country economic and sector  the enterprises, weak or nonexistent capital
work has already been completed, or is under  markets, the difficulty of maximizing the effi-
way, to identify key regulatory and legal con-  ciency gains from private ownership without
straints to private-sector development and de-  first creating an appropriate competitive mar-
velop programs of reform. This prior work will  ket, procedural and legal obstacles, strong
permit a rapid and broad increase in adjust-  political sensitivities to foreign ownership, and
ment components focusing on specific regula-  opposition from groups losing economic rents
tory and legal reforms to improve the eco-  through the reform process.
nomic environment.                            In order to enhance efficiency and competi-
In addition to these general reforms, many  tion, the Bank Group, through the action pro-
developing countries wishing to encourage di-  gram, will expand its support to countries that
rect foreign investment will need to address  have made clear their wish to develop an
specifically the barriers and constraints facing  appropriate framework and favorable environ-
foreign investors. To assist its member coun-  ment for successful privatization. It will also
tries secure the advantages of foreign direct  take a more direct role in assisting implemen-
investment, the IFC and MIGA, in October   tation, including financing of programs of staff
1988, moved to make the foreign investment  retraining and seed capital to start new activi-
advisory service (FIAS) a joint program. Staff  ties.
assigned to FIAS, which was set up in fiscal  The IFC's recently created corporate fi-
1986 in the IFC to help developing-country  nance services unit will work closely with the
governments that seek its advice to create the  corporation's investment departments to in-
framework of policies and institutions neces-  crease the IFC's privatization activities, which
sary to encourage and regulate direct foreign  include offering advice on preparing privatiza-
investment, will double by fiscal 1991.     tion deals, locating investors and conducting
Furthermore, the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA  negotiations, as well as making investments in
will assist heavily indebted countries in ex-  privatized firms. In addition, the Bank and the
panding their use of debt/equity conversions  IFC will cooperate closely to increase support
(the Bank through advice and, possibly in the  of the restructuring process prior to sale, in-
future, operations; the IFC through investment  cluding bringing in prospective shareholders to
operations and promotion and underwriting of  participate in the restructuring, or, alterna-
equity investment funds that make use of con-  tively, assisting buyers to restructure the
versions; and MIGA through insurance against  newly privatized enterprise. MIGA will sup-
noncommercial risk for equity resulting from  port divestiture programs by insuring both
debt conversion), thus permitting additional  direct and portfolio equity investments in
opportunities for foreign direct investment.  privatized enterprises against noncommercial
Public sector restructuring and privatization  risks.
of enterprises, infrastructure, and services.  The Bank Group is also prepared to assist
Many developing countries are reexamining   interested member countries to expand the
the role of the state in their economies, and  private sector's role in infrastructure and so-
increased interest in enhancing both public and  cial services in cases in which such expansion
private efficiency is being extensively sup-  could help to ease financial constraints and
ported by the Bank Group. In conjunction with  increase efficiency. Bank assistance would
government directives and in the interests of  include helping governments establish an ap-
improving efficiency, the Bank Group has sup-  propriate legal and contractual framework,
ported divestiture and liquidation of public  identifying investments currently in public in-
enterprises, an end to public monopolies, an  vestment programs that are suitable for private
increase in budget discipline, the concentration  involvement, and analyzing the financial and
of public expenditures on high-priority tasks in  economic viability of proposals.



Private-sector Development  57
The IFC would provide both direct financing  markets. Progress will be gradual, however,
and advice and, in some cases, help attract  for if the basic preconditions for efficient mar-
investors and put together the commercial fi-  ket operations are not in place, too-rapid liber-
nancing packages. MIGA could also help to   alization could have disastrously destabilizing
encourage expanded private involvement by   effects and lead to massive misallocation of
providing protection against noncommercial  resources. Over time, however, Bank-sup-
risks.                                      ported financial institutions, whether publicly
Financial-sector development and resource  or privately owned, will have to withstand the
transfer. The ability of the financial sector to  test of the market.
mobilize an adequate volume of savings and    * Because the scarcity of equity capital is a
channel resources effectively to their most  key constraint to private-sector development in
efficient uses is one of the most important  developing countries, the IFC will expand its
ingredients for successful private-sector devel-  capital-market work through the establishment
opment. A modern, efficient, market-based   and strengthening of domestic capital-market
economy is inconceivable without an efficient  institutions, support of links between domestic
financial system to mobilize savings and chan-  and international capital markets, and advice to
nel them to their most productive end uses.  help create appropriate regulatory frameworks.
World Bank adjustment operations have con-  The Bank and the IFC will collaborate closely
sistently promoted reform of interest and ex-  to develop systematic programs-employing
change rates, and although considerable prog-  Bank adjustment lending and technical assis-
ress has been made, these policy reforms have  tance and IFC  investments and advisory
not always generated the expected supply re-  work-to promote capital-market development.
sponse, in part because of rigidities and inade-  MIGA can insure new investments made in
quacies in the financial sector. At the same  market growth funds located in a developing
time, the Bank's operations in support of local  country against noncommercial risk.
financial intermediaries have sometimes tended  * The Bank Group will expand its efforts to
to focus too narrowly on meeting the credit  increase the transfer of resources to the private
needs of particular end borrowers and may not  sector, acting both as a catalyst to promote
have given due attention to the requirements  private-to-private flows and as a provider of
and importance of overall financial-sector de-  direct financing through the IFC. Catalytic
velopment. The situation has been changing in  activities could include MIGA guarantees,
recent years, and that change, under the action  FIAS advice, the promotional effects of IFC's
program and the forthcoming review of devel-  own investments, and an expansion of IFC
opment finance intermediaries, will be consoli-  activities in underwriting corporate issues of
dated and formalized.                       securities by companies in developing coun-
Operations that involve the financial sector,  tries. The IFC, the Bank affiliate most respon-
either as the object of the operation or as the  sible for direct financing of private industry,
vehicle for transferring resources to other sec-  will also increase its operations.
tors of the economy, will be designed and     *Researchandpolicywork. Whilefirstpri-
carried out within the context of coherent,  ority will be given to increasing rapidly its
country-specific strategies for financial-sector  operational focus on private-sector develop-
development. Consistent with country strate-  ment, the Bank Group will also undertake the
gies, the Bank will emphasize four specific and  necessary research, policy work, and opera-
closely related areas: improvements in the  tional guidelines to create new ways to develop
policy and institutional environment affecting  the sector and improve existing lending instru-
financial-sector development, a strengthening  ments. Topics to be studied in these three areas
of bank and nonbank financial institutions,  will include strategies for regulatory reform,
promotion of capital-market development, and  including specific sector policy papers; the role
increases in the transfer of resources to devel-  of the private sector in the delivery of public
oping-country private sectors. Thus:        services in each economic sector; reviews of
* The Bank will expand its operations in  experience with privatization; and issues of
support of financial-sector restructuring and re-  banking regulatory policy, bank restructuring
form, and the IFC will expand its collaboration  and patterns of corporate finance, and parame-
with the Bank in this financial-sector work by  ters for financial-sector adjustment lending.
helping to review policy and regulatory issues
and identifying ways to fill institutional gaps.
* In its support to, and use of, specific
financial intermediaries, the Bank will ensure  The executive directors of the Bank and the
that its activities are consistent with the overall  board of directors of the IFC considered the
strategy of encouraging greater reliance on  private-sector development action program



58    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
and endorsed its general thrust; directors par-  assessment, outlining specific actions planned
ticularly welcomed the effort that had been      for the next three to four years; the more
made to take a pragmatic approach to the         detailed WID strategy for Kenya (details are
action program. It was agreed that, in one       reported on in both the 1987 and 1988 Annual
year's time, a report on the progress of the     Reports) has led to operations in agricultural
action program would be prepared.                extension; education; population, health, and
nutrition; and, more recently, in credits that
Women in Development                             increasingly involve women in development.
The Bank's initiative to help women in de-     Detailed WID strategies for Bangladesh, India,
velopment (WID) advanced considerably dur-       and Pakistan are nearing completion. Exten-
ing the past fiscal year, and several signs of   sive work is also under way elsewhere, includ-
progress can be discerned.                       ing Cameroon, Colombia, The Gambia, Indo-
Each country department director of the        nesia, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Zaire, and
Bank has been asked to prepare a brief WID       Zimbabwe.
Bin 3-1. Gender and Poiern in India
Earls on sit the course of prepiring the counrr-  tion provth and hewter child sur-i.ali in ihe
action plan lor addrew,ing kes women-,n.devel.  longes term. In [he productike sector,. ihe report
oprment isues in the Bank' wvork in India. a  recommends a combination of policies to pro-
-Arong. but eomples Inlge emerged bet.ween   mote overallemplo)mentrgrowthanddirect meia-
women and po%crix \\omein are preponderant    sure, so en-ure that w%omen hate access to the
among thy poor. and poor household, are more  productive resources they need to partake of that
dependent on v.onien , earninc>. Gi%en she long-  groih. Among the specific recommendations
4ttiiding concern bs the goternment ofInda \ sibh  ure prokvison of diiect atce,s ti institutional
pot erls alle\.Ltion and the focu, of the Banksi  credit. orientational and operaijonal modifica-
countr; economic memorandum tin po L-rt,s. em-  tions in she daricultural-research and aericultural-
plo%trenm. and social ,erices, this linkage be-  exten-ion \items 1hepromotionofdirectmem-
c.mreone of the mator themes ofa recentl\ is'ued  her5hip in %able producer cooperasises. and
draft a,se,rment leport  n,  and Pitr,l- ri   urganization of uomen into groups that pro\ ide
India - . -iei uand ODppn.riiefs Contutralita  them j legitimate Forum be\ond she private do-
it in .Z  n ate riinsi an f/ic I,id  In terms ol  mcsnic sphere and a more audible koice in de-
education. empto, ment. wage,. health-care us-  m:tndmng ser% ice, and inputs.
age and mvrialst rate,. and a range of olther   The o%erall thru,i L1 the report is thai such
indicator,. It Vs c,.ident from the report that  measure, to enhance wvomrnrs access tO produc-
wosisien a5a group are more sulnerable tilan men  tie resources are cntical as direct and self-
so the e.trernme ofposers and 'tL conseq4uences.  targesing means to reduce po%en; . Thirt%-fi\e
At thte iame time. it i, tiio clear trial tor poor-  percetit of indian household, helowt the po%ers
hou,eholds a .womrii\ capacits to w,ork. her  tine are headcd bi uonen and. in nmost cases. are
healih. her knowledge. rnd her skill endomnient,  thu, dependent esclusi%eh on female income.
are ofien the onlh re'ource, lo call upon for  Even %here there is a m.Ale earner women's
sur' ial \% omen', labor-fbrce participation and  earning, form a major part lf the income of poor
their rel.iil e contribution lo soi3l fairtl incoime  househol   Nhiforeover. women coninihute a
are higher in households dith lowser econormic  liger share of w%hal they earn than do men to
status. Thi, meann that the poorest families are  ba,ic Idmili maintenance. and increases in wont-
ihe moi dependent upon svomen's economic     en's incomre translate more direcil into better
producis jit. It also mean, that. in addition to  child health and nutrition.
siew inc, omesnta, a ke\ tarcet group for posed-  Nliaking women more productne and. hence.
alle iation progranis. antiposen; policies need to  more efectlve inconse earners. wkill nol mereh
recognize ;,nd harncs, the itrategic potential of  reduce their dependenc; and enhance their sttus
Women a, critical pla)ers in the proce,- of mo\ -  and securit\ in the family. bus also increase
inc their familles out ol poVet t%            jggregate ldbor producti. it; and accelerate
The maior emphas-i in the assessmeni report.  growth in sector. such a, agriculture. where
therefore. s; on w%omen a, economic agents and  \somen constitute neJrly half the labor force.
on idcntidf sin ihe genderSpecific constraints that  increase househoiid incomies especiall\ tn fami-
limit iheir products' ir and hence lhe rabilhi to  lies below the posertv line: increase the shaLre oL
eis.pe potenr  From ihis persPectise. Improke-  famtln imnome allocated to prosiding food and
mcnrt, m v omcn  education. he,1tth. and :blit'  health care to children: improse male and female
to regulase their o n ferilt:s are * iei ed not  child sunrial and increase famils ine'tment in
simpldi a welfare benefiss. hut a, ke\ inpult so  education tbr their daughters. and reduce fertility
higher lemale pri-dctlusit\ sand reduced popul.-  dnd slow population groitb



Women in Development  59
Operational activities vary widely according  * Labor markets in industry, but also in
to country circumstances but tend to focus on  agriculture and services, are often quite seg-
ways to improve women's productivity, partic-  mented by gender, with women typically con-
ularly through agricultural extension (Kenya,  centrated in fewer, more traditional, and less
Nigeria, and Somalia, for example), agricul-  remunerative lines of work.
tural credit (several operations are in early  * Investments in human capital for women
stages in this subsector where experience is  have a high payoff, but women and girls often
more limited), primary and secondary educa-  get less than men and boys when the costs to
tion (examples include Morocco and Pakistan),  families of education, health care, and even
and population, health, and nutrition (with  food are high.
examples in every region). Mexico prepared,  * Improving opportunities for women can
and the Bank has helped to finance, a free-  lead to more effective use of natural resources.
standing WID project that combines provision  * The most effective combination of mea-
of clean water (which saves women consider-  sures for reducing birth rates includes ex-
able "fetching time") with efforts to promote  panded  income-earning  opportunities and
earning capacity. Attention is also focusing  education for women, in conjunction with fam-
increasingly on women in "poverty lending"-  ily-planning programs and health care.
treating women as key contributors in success-  These guidelines offer some findings that
ful strategies to reduce poverty (as in Bang-  Bank staff can use as a start in identifying and
ladesh). Similarly, in addressing the social  analyzing issues concerning women in country
dimensions of adjustment in Africa and else-  economic and sector work, as well as in project
where, more attention is being paid to the role  design. They emphasize measures to include
of women (for example, in Zaire).         women in development that will contribute to
On the policy front, "overview" guidelines  economic performance, family welfare, pov-
have been drafted, outlining some key issues  erty alleviation, slower population growth, bet-
for economic and sector work and suggesting  ter use of natural resources, and other broad
operational approaches. These are being sup-  development objectives. These measures gen-
plemented by more detailed sector-specific  erally fall into two classes: some (such as in
guidelines (the forestry guidelines are out and  agricultural extension or credit for women
those on agricultural extension, credit, and  without assets) equip poor women immediately
education are under way). The guidelines em-  to improve productivity, while others (such as
phasize that:                             ways to keep girls in school) build the human
* Women already contribute economically  capital that enables people, in the longer run,
far more than is usually recognized in official  to break out of old molds and seek broader
GNP statistics, particularly through agricul-  choices.
ture, home-based production, and care of the  The implications for Bank analysis and lend-
family.                                   ing are obvious in human capital (education
* Women's capacity to work is often partic-  and training; health and nutrition; family plan-
ularly constrained-and their productivity re-  ning). Perhaps less obvious are the important
duced-by culture and tradition, both of which  implications for poverty alleviation and basic
are sometimes codified into law or policy.  development strategies; employment; agricul-
Culture and tradition, for instance, may limit  ture and forestry: and household energy. There
their access to information and technology, to  are some indirect implications for infiastruc-
education and training, to credit and resources,  ture (water. roads, and transport). The impli-
and to markets.                           cations are more tenuous but not entirely
* Investing in women is often a cost-effec-  absent for the basic macro policy fields-mon-
tive route to broader development objectives  etary and fiscal, trade, privatization, and pub-
such as improved economic performance, re-  lic-sector management. Because adjustment
duction of poverty, greater family welfare, and  programs can affect the entire economy, their
slower population growth.                 effect on women can and ought to be consid-
* Women tend to be disproportionately rep-  ered. Finally, attention to women matters cru-
resented among the poor.                  cially in analyzing population and the linkages
* When women's productive capacity is   between  economic   progress,  population
constrained, it is important not merely to "get  growth, and environmental sustainability.
the prices right'-to establish appropriate in-  "Women in development" is still a new field,
centives-but also to improve women's capac-  its analytic base narrow. As experience and
ity to respond, through investment programs  analysis accumulate, understanding will im-
and policy changes, especially in agriculture,  prove, and the guidelines will be refined. In the
home-based production, and the small-scale or  meantime. enough is known to outline key
informal sector.                          issues, based on the operational experience of



60   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1989
the Bank and other agencies, as well as on  country-specific plans usually requires a care-
existing analytic evidence on economic issues  ful look at who the women are, what work they
affecting women in development.           do, what constraints they face, and why. This
These guidelines are basic enough to apply  will suggest probable benefits from improving
broadly in most countries. But country circum-  women's opportunities and effective, afford-
stances vary, and development of practical  able approaches for doing so.



61
Section Four
World Bank Finances
IBRD Finances
Taible 1-1. IBR{D Ai^erage C'osts,
Fiscal year 1989 was another year of strong  PrTaltabiliBRD and Returns
financial performance for the IBRD. (See Ta-  r*e I -1-.i.>: r. -o.j  I : ,rhc r *e dur cC ri.. Ix *1 (.l
ble 4-1.) It strengthened its reserve position in                         F , I
two important ways. One was through an in-                              -________
crease in the absolute level of its reserves                             j''8  I4J;M
sufficient to raise the reserves-to-loans (R/L)  -,., ,,,,,
ratio to 10.2 percent at June 30, 1989. from 9.3  \cri,ee  -
percent a year earlier. Another was through   Nh. hi,Iro..' I n)               -'l
changes in the currency composition of the     rof,ldkhr .III i,jnlino    4      s
reserves, which will make the R/L ratio much  T,,.il lund-, dilebv ,nd cquit.'  ir .h  h.
less vulnerable to changes in exchange rates.  F, ..d-,i
The IBRD also adopted policy changes that    AI :cr.Ac IeL[rn, c,r
will reduce the variability in the effective cost  L.-un, ji,hhu ;d nd
of loans provided to its borrowers and diminish  o94 qmnd.nL - '                 t ,t
the IBRD's own exposure to market risks.      l   d in, ln.nientf,'       5 I  s 'I!
Moreover, capital subscriptions from twenty-  Tt,i.,1 earnong           S t s31, . :.
seven countries of $21.4 billion, including paid-  p, ..
in capital of $643 million, were received in this  Srptemd r1-enern retUIin oIn w.ot.M
first year of subscriptions to the $74.8 billion  c.Lrn.ng ato,w .ind cCiot tt a.1;
general capital increase authorized in April                            IXn4   j.
1988. Total subscribed capital at June 30, 1989.  I,n-
was $115,668 million out of total authorized  * .\, ipercent.,g of :j%er.igee
capital of $171,362 million. Finally, the IBRD  eCl4il"'                - .9   , "
completed its borrowing program of $9.3 bil-   A . iJ iercentrne .ot .,ge
lion equivalent, while maintaining its high     I.qLujd   a nd loLns    II    !I01
credit standing and the benchmark status it  v,,`1t,1,, ,I,, .f I. I..' I -I III.. ,,, IiI
enjoys in most markets. (See Table 4-2.)     Rti.:oo re..r' e; to loan I - i  4 1  It, 2
The increase in the R/L ratio resulted prin-  R.otio ol ..tndng toari to
cipally from full allocation of the previous                            5 eu  I 5. in I
year's net income to reserves and a slowdown  R..o ,-n uu.r:ndin Jebtr to
in net disbursements, caused chiefly by pre-  tqitYf h61 i.46l1
payments from three borrowers. The improved      .l-                          prep.ii
ratio was achieved despite the addition of a        t r lll .k 3 r'IIi,n |  ci
ninth country to nonaccrual status, with the  h    E .wa .i.j d .ir..i- rbjid-in  rr.pii..I. .
attendant reduction in interest income and  r,d .u.,WW. r.lt Iflncfe
addition of provisioning expenses.          e. !ni,re i en ioii; I, A p-rcenr.age .- -er,ge j.bo-.^d
The IBRD achieved its funding objectives by  .mJe .nlianjini: lo!-
borrowing $9.3 billion in the world's leading  .1 iridrl rc,I-d pit.1 *.,n..
markets at an average cost, after swaps, of 7.73  e In-lud,.t.i.rmF11 i luF.9i re re.i,el. ,.'2'nhil.n
percent and an average maturity of 7.8 years. It  nd '2r' nmillirn. ,o vnIni,rn,ni tee *.n i,nJdi,bjrLIVC oan
maintained its high credit standing in all major  hr.e-. in *,d.rl,. i. l.ibLrn. *rI I- quI.i 'ni e.irn,cnJ .ini
markets as a result of its prudent financial
practices and the continued support of its
member countries.
During fiscal 1989, several important poli-  the risk and cost features of loans offered to its
cies were reviewed by the executive directors,  borrowers. The IBRD adopted changes in its
and a number were revised in order to improve  currency-management policies designed to



62    World Bank Finances
Table 4-2. IBRD Borrowings, Fiscal Year 1989a
(in millions)
Cur rcncs       US-dollar
Tvpe                                   Is.ue                          ot issue      eqilivalci-its
Aledhum- and long-entr pubhli offi riwng
Finland            9.625%cset en-veir notes. due 1995          FNIK       300.0       Th 7
9 75% five-year notes. due 1994            FMK         300 0      70 0
Gciman. Federal
Republic of      6 0% ten- e.rr bondr, due 1998              DM          5000      276.5
6 625% eieht-vear bonds, due 1997          DM           150 0     79 6
6 759' ten-year bonds. due 19'J9           DM          150 0      78 2
Hong Kone           10 125%7- six-Near bond-. due 199)5        HK$         500 0      64 0
Japan               5.25% ten-year boaid, due 1908             V        50,001) 1    375.1
5 0°/% ten-year bonds. due 1998            V         35,000 0    280.40
5.375% ten-year bonds. due 19'J9           y         10,0()0.0    71 30
Luxembourg         7 625'% seven-year bonds. due 1996          Lu\F      1.000 0      25.5
Spain              10 625'% ten-ve.i bonds, due 1998           Ptas     111.000 t)    80.7
10 375%' ten-year bonds. due 1998          Ptas      15,0(0 0     127 4
11.75'i fivc-Near bonds, due 19)4          Ptas      10,000.0     86.2
12.375%/, fivc- car bonds. diue 1194       Pias      10,000.0     79.2
SWIt7erland         5.0%, fifteen-year bonds, due 2003         SwF         153 0      94.4
5 5S, ten-year bonds. due 1999             SwF         125 0       76.6
Eurobond Market    9 0' fie-year notes, dlue 1993              S           300 0     300.0
9 25% ten-year notes, due 199)8            S           300 0      300 0
9 62i% ten-year notes. due 1999            $           500.0     500.0
9 75% sexen-year notes. due 1996           $           300.0
9 0% fifteen-year notes, duie 21)04        s           300.0      300.0
12.75',c five-year notes, dire 1993        SA          150.0     119.2
10.125% five-year notes. due 1993          CanS        150 0     125.1
Zero-coupon notes, due 1996                CanS        102 0      84,5
8 75% six-sear noles. due 1995             F          1.000.0     146.9
II t0  five-year notes. dtue 1993          Lit     150,000.0      107.0
10.75%¢ five-year notes. due 1994          Lit      150.000.0     111.7
10.0% ten-year bonds. due 199"             £           100.0     173.2
4.875?% five-year honds. due 1993          'r        50,000.0     403.5
6 25%" ten-year bonds, dire 1998           f           300.0      152.4
7.1254% ten-year bonds, due 1999           f           300.0      132.6
14.0',c five-year notes. (:ue 1)94         YNZ          75 0      45 5
10 5% five-Near bonds. due 1993            SKr         51)) 0     82.3
10.5%', live-vear bonds, due 1993          SKr         500.0      73.9
7 375%, five-year notes. due 1993          ECU         100.0      114.0
7.5', five-year noats. due 1993           IEC U        100.10     118.2
Total medium- and .ong-term public offerings                                      5.625.8
.Aledniun- and rong-ternm placements
nitih (eanital hbank-s tcuud <v'oernnrenzs
Germanv, Federal
Republic of      6.2%' note due 1993                         DM          250.0     133.2
6 45 'c note, due 1994                     DM          250.0      133.7
International'     9 011 two-year bonds. dr:e 199(1            s           300 0     300.0
9 72', two-year bonds. due 1991            S             3 4        3.4
4 188%, two-year bonds. due 1990           Swl1        300.0      194 9
5.75%w to-year bonds, due 1991             SwF         260.8      157 2
4.125% two-year notes. due 1990            SwF          92.0       63.4
Total medium- and lorig-term placements
wkith central banks ard goverirments                                             985.8



IBRD Finances   63
Table 4-2 i conrinuteIi
i urren.:      L S Jo. " 
T !pe                                    i.                           1  u         qui ;.lrni--
Vidfilmtl- t11,2 /tlo !-I,fl 1,11  . -1  11a!. .   incal,
J.ip.in           i5.5'  k.I n. due  -1I.111                           2  111.111II  I  1 45
5.4  bond., due  1Y419%                             111.01111 (I  '5
5.; uoin. due '114                                 4 1 1INI (II   9
.', - I.n  duc  211114                           0li*  ii1 III 'If  i
04-'4  - n,es>. diUe  l1l1JS                         It  11     lit(i tl
49'4'. hond.ns. duej 1*X9h4s Nttll                               1.|8 ki
9Yl".'  h*nd,.  uijc  1,44Ct               St 11111.1              ll 
Linilvd Ki;ngdom   II i - lo in zt,ok duLe 'IhI                           a 1-l 35
LIniied SIlte.      , Connnu''ushl O(fered LonLcr iernl Securnien
ProgrdnI, 1t0i_S)                                   53 X 4. X
Intern:,iOnul      4 7'  hond-. du¢ 1993                              II 1 illi II    I
v2'! :. homnd,. IJle 1'49-45,lll 1                               '.
; " L tondi ttlj 19L44                              1,lw         S 
loltal niedtium  nd Ion- lerm othel plIcemenr                                   ' 1r  h
Centi.11 hank :i,ihlt                      .          114.9    5114 9'
('rinnuouil Oittered I'f, nint Rieht, In
S-xis; Franc4 COPS'                      i - WO P.11 S            -
Tol,dl t1orrottilnc-, fiscal 19N9                                                    .' 
E%CILIde. k  ?4  billirn i-.Aill  rn,illon LqUI.Acral .,r I %en  -o1.-  ..hn.h ;o.re rr-pj.I in] rI.nidi ..n-
b  BW],d on e  han,.e ra.e. dl Ihe mnin  of : illeniln
;. Rtpre;era. o\c-,  of ictilncfln. v  .L!r prcp,lild  rw.url[
d Net proeed, lr zero C.ohpon ,nlI, -Il .Ifr. mILin, in ti. 1.IF.dC ,,{ .,r ' llUc
e.  Th-.c is-   .%vere rpkeed  - Ich  >nirdI r*,nl,,  .2' errin-',r. i .g.fl ^  ,,;d  . ith iri,v,-fr n  . , ,  ,! ,-ir,.
I Mlaturelri ulthin ,nmc e.r
a  Infrelle in jm.uni Ot UtLHIndinp it Wurw  3'. IA' '. er  fnio,.nc i  ,ndinic vi Jur.  III  tl.SN
make its lending practices more transparent      effectively enabled all IBRD   borrowers to
and manageable for borrowers and to better       share equally the exchange risk imbedded in
enable it to manage interest-rate and exchange   IBRD loans. Nevertheless, the currency com-
risk. These changes include: targeting the cur-  position of the pool was not predictable. Also,
rency composition of the loan-currency pool to   because the share of U.S. dollars in the pool
provide an approximate balance among the         was relatively small, debt service on pooled
major currency blocks; adopting a new lend-      loans, measured in U.S. dollar terms, was
ing-rate system that ensures that the lending    highly sensitive to exchange-rate movements.
rate will reflect only the currencies outstanding  The IBRD now has improved the predictability
on loan; and recalling, on a pro-rata basis,     of the pool by targeting a specific currency
major currencies out on fixed-currency loans     composition, which is expected to be achieved
committed prior to the introduction of the       by the end of fiscal 1991. By then, the pool's
loan-currency pool in 1980.                      composition will be in a ratio of 1 U.S. dollar
During the year, the financial complex con-    for every 125 Japanese yen and 2 Deutsche
tinued the pilot program of financial technical  mark (or the equivalent in a composite of
assistance to developing countries. It initiated  Deutsche mark, Swiss francs, and Netherlands
training programs based on its experience in     guilders). These three groups will comprise 90
asset and liability management for India, Ma-    to 95 percent of the pool's value, with the
laysia, and Poland concerning the use of         remainder in other currencies. The increased
swaps, options, futures, and rate caps to man-   share of U.S. dollars will give borrowers a
age interest-rate and exchange-rate volatility.  more balanced currency exchange risk.
Targeted currency-pooling system. The cur-       The IBRD directors decided that this rough
rency-pooling system   adopted in   1980 has     balance among    the three   major currency



64   Worid Bank Finances
blocks was worth the cost of a somewhat     will decline to waive the prepayment penalty,
higher nominal lending rate that might result  thereby recouping for the membership as a
from a greater proportion in the loan pool of  whole a portion of the financial advantage real-
U.S. dollars, which, in recent times, have had  ized by the prepaying country.
a comparatively high nominal interest rate.   Waiver of the commitment fee. Another
The targeted balance represents a realistic cur-  matter considered by the executive directors
rency structure in terms of the IBRD's borrow-  was the appropriateness of waiving a portion of
ing opportunities, and also enables borrowers  the 0.75 percent commitment fee on undis-
to calculate what their exchange-rate exposure  bursed loan balances. It was determined that
is so that they can predict and plan for future  the commitment fee should be reduced, con-
debt service in terms of the three major cur-  sistent with achieving a build-up of R/L ratio to
rencies and, if appropriate, manage and/or  near the top of the 10 percent-to-Il percent
hedge such exposure.                        range, in view of (a) the decline in funding risks
Changes in the lending-rate system. The   for the loans now that all loans committed
IBRD made two changes in its variable lend-  since 1982 have variable lending rates and (b)
ing-rate system. First, borrowings funding in-  the inequitable incidence of the fee, which
vestments will be excluded in calculating the  raises the effective cost of slow-disbursing
currency-by-currency borrowing cost. Second,  projects even if the borrower is implementing
the currency weights applied to each curren-  the projects in line with agreed plans. Taking
cy's costs will be the share, during the past  account of these considerations, and after eval-
semester, of each currency outstanding in the  uating risks to the IBRD's prospective income
loan-currencv pool. The new lending-rate sys-  from market factors such as interest and ex-
tem will be applicable to all loans for which  change-rate volatility and from credit risks, the
invitations to negotiate have been issued on or  directors approved a one-year reduction in the
after May 18, 1989, and to previous variable-  commitment fee, effective July 1, 1989, which
rate loans converted at the request of the  will save borrowers about $200 million during
borrower to the new system. In the absence of  the year.
such request for previous loans, the variable  Benchmark rate of provisioning for loan loss-
lending rate will continue to be calculated  es. The provisioning policy adopted in June
under the old system.                       1988 calls for review of the current year's
Currency  composition  of reserves. The   expense for loan-loss provisioning and the set-
IBRD also decided to take steps to bring the  ting of the benchmark monthly provisioning
currency composition of its reserves and accu-  rate for the next year. The IBRD determined to
mulated net income into line with that of loans,  continue provisioning 1 percent per month of
and thereby diminish the vulnerability of the  principal outstanding on all loans to, or guar-
R/L ratio to exchange-rate movements. By the  anteed by. countries that are in nonaccrual
end of fiscal 1991, it expects that the currency  status. Provisioning expense of the IBRD was
composition will essentially match that of its  $358 million in fiscal 1989, and, at year's end,
outstanding loans, and, from then on, align-  the cumulative provisioning was $800 million,
ment will be managed so as to insulate the  or 25 percent of principal outstanding on such
relationship of reserves and loans from ex-  loans.'
change-rate movements.                        Impact of new    financial policies. The
Prepayment of IBRD loans: waiver of prepay-  changes in the IBRD's financial policies-the
ment premia. The directors also reviewed the  targeting of the currency pool, the conversion
criteria for the IBRD to waive the prepayment  of reserves and unallocated net income to
premium. While the IBRD has a basic policy in  match the currency composition of loans,
favor of prepayment by borrowers, a distinction  changes in the lending-rate system for new
arose between prepayments that are consistent  (and converted) variable-rate loans, and possi-
with the IBRD's cooperative approach to loan  ble waiver of a portion of the commitment
pricing and those that are not. The executive  fee-will tend to reduce net income in the
board decided that where loan prepayments   future.
apply to loans having an average interest rate in
line with the average interest rate on all out-
standing IBRD loans, the premium would con-
tinue to be waived. If, however, a borrower
exercises its right to selectively prepay loans  'In November 1988. a support group of eleven countries,
carrying  higher-than-average  fixed-interest  chaired by the Canadian executive director of the Interna-
rates, then-except in cases where the borrow-  tional Monetary Fund. was set up to assist Guyana in
solving the problem of repayment of arrears to multilateral
ing country has a very high average interest rate  financial institutions. Similar arrangements are under way
on its total IBRD loans outstanding-the IBRD  for Zambia.



IBRD Finances  65
The increased share in the loan-currency pool  Borrowing operations. The IBRD carried
of U.S. dollars, with their expected above-  out $9.3 billion equivalent of new borrowings
average nominal interest rates, compared to the  -exclusive of the refinancing of both short-
other targeted currencies in the pool, may re-  term borrowings and prepayments of debt. The
duce the profitability of those currency-pool  reduced size of the borrowing program, com-
loans that bear fixed-interest rates. Further, the  pared to $11 billion last year, was primarily a
conversion of reserves and unallocated income  response to prepayments to the IBRD from its
to match the currency composition of loans will  borrowers.
tend to decrease nominal investment income   The program emphasized a substantial in-
because of the proportionate increase of low  crease of U.S. dollar borrowings, which ac-
nominal-yield currencies in investments. An-  counted for 62 percent, after swaps, of the
other restraint on net income is that, unlike the  borrowing program, compared to 29 percent in
original variable lending rate, which was based  fiscal 1988. These U.S. dollar borrowings en-
on the cost of total IBRD borrowings, the new  abled the IBRD to increase that currency's
lending rate will not exceed 50 basis points over  share in the loan currency pool to 23 percent at
the IBRD's cost of currencies on loan.     the end of fiscal 1989, compared to 15 percent
However, part of net income in the past  a year earlier.
years was required to offset the effect of ex-  Among the longer-term objectives guiding
change-rate changes on the R/L ratio. Without  the IBRD's borrowing and swap operations
reference to the reduced volatility of the R/L  have been maintaining: diversification of bor-
ratio, comparison of net income figures may be  rowings in a large number of markets and
inappropriate.                             currencies, both for the inherent long-term
Even at current levels of provisioning ex-  value of diversification of funding sources and
penses for, and of interest not earned on,  for the associated swap arbitrage opportuni-
IBRD loans in nonaccrual status, the IBRD's  ties; the IBRD's benchmark status in those
earning capacity remains strong, and its R/L  markets; and traditional borrowing relation-
ratio increased from 9.3 percent to 10.2 percent  ships with official sources and with certain
at the end of fiscal 1989. In addition, its return  investor groups.
on assets (net income over average earning   In fiscal 1989, as in recent years, swaps were
assets) increased from 0.98 percent to 1.09  used to achieve after-swap funding objec-
percent.                                   tives at substantial savings relative to direct
Developments in asset management. The    borrowings of target currencies. At the same
IBRD executive board also approved a number  time, swaps enabled the IBRD to diversify its
of changes in the investment authority govern-  funding sources to encompass a wide range
ing management of liquidity. Among these   of markets without being required to retain
changes were reducing the lower limit for the  the variety of currencies in its after-swap port-
weighted average duration of the investment  folio.
portfolio as a whole from three months to zero;  The major thrust of the currency-swap pro-
expanding the use of futures and options be-  gram during fiscal 1989 was to swap into U.S.
yond the U.S. and U.K. markets; making     dollars, for which twelve different swap vehi-
foreign currency-denominated government ob-  cle currencies were used. Swaps out of non-
ligations acceptable investments if rated AA or  dollar vehicle currencies into fixed-rate dollar
better (previously such investments were lim-  liabilities were generally accomplished through
ited to AAA-rated obligations); and making  a two-step process-a cross-currency swap
investment authority for managing IDA's liq-  into floating-rate dollars, followed (or occa-
uid assets identical to that for managing the  sionally preceded) by one or more U.S. dollar
IBRD's. The realized return on investments  interest-rate swaps that produced the desired
was 8.20 percent in fiscal 1989.           fixed-rate funding. The two-step process en-
Allocation of fiscal 1989 net income. The  abled the IBRD to delink the timing of the
IBRD's executive directors also annually re-  cross-currency swap from that of the associ-
view its net income and financial prospects to  ated interest-rate swaps. This allowed the
decide on allocation of net income to the  IBRD to pursue and execute swap-driven cap-
general reserve and make a recommendation to  ital-market transactions at times of attractive
the board of governors on distribution of any  cross-currency swap arbitrage, while, at the
remainder. At the end of fiscal 1989, the  same time, giving it the necessary flexibility to
IBRD's directors concluded that, in fiscal  convert the floating-rate dollars into fixed-rate
1990, $994 million should be added to the  funding at appropriate points in time. Cross-
general reserve and recommended that $100  currency swaps into dollars totaled $2.1 billion
million be contributed to a debt-reduction fa-  during the fiscal year out of a total of $2.6
cility for IDA-only member countries.      billion in currency swaps. (See Table 4-3.) The



66   World Bank Finances
Table 4-3. IBRD Borroviings. afler S%%aps. Fiscal * ear 1989
Bcorc i :r                        ler  .a r
!NI,,IInhr  Sr..,p.'              C^
a,r.inr*,itrr1  l   lI .~r  *rilrr..   \rrl.dijr  . -i,
\I.-l    IId;-   *. {.vD   r.  Ge.'-r ,  . rr !
L'S drilhri                       I 1.1-   4       I'    2. fl 't    3 54 .7  5  9.12
J.,panese icn                    2               11 2  I  -   1   1.'46 4   19   5. 24
S tvi-  t rdin,                   :Sf  i   , I     .i      f '.9    bh. -1  11)    t I
Deui;che m rxI                    'l * ,          4      -44.4    hih,.     '    .I 2
r)iher*                          2. '4.`4'  '4     .1   - 2.1 Ibr 4  1 311 5  I  9 32
SIDE'Ld *                       .4-U.'  94      3.1        -    .2. 44. '  q44  7 hS
5jl.r,,j.ht,r,, /i,;,..r1,  :  !
Cenir:.d h-onk tiL, L S dJlldt s   14 '    5      1.0        -      mt14 '1  i   S.97
C,i IIF'S IrSv-.r  i- r;n.ir       31                        -3.                 4 5s;
ThaI )uM ..~' Ss                         lull     - Ig-;n .1'  2  -   .    1g    7.71
NI -1 *I Del II 1   A. .  -I -1 dv   i.- 1x -1 A, h,  -uc 1 C  lro.ndfijq
.  : p  r   *n  -.r.i r.s   i  1   I ,. .i 12 1i .11 llrr.n
F. nDc   rJ-1 I| an I.i   0 h1 ,-lzn o|1 reri-rw.rinc. t  iA :  hmlr,-t.l1cd
Rr.rie.eni.  tr .rrr. r r. ri1 n  PIu [ ,  'Jr.  lr.ii i  IS   ' n.r1i,roril  Jir ollarm dcdIr.. i2ri 2  r.rlilr.-nr. EtLi U .I   minIIwnr.
F.rini,h  Ir.kr, 61411'  millioni  Fren,r  ir,n,., r$IJ. 4 millrin,  H;np Knr,  ,n  dollr,  it1i1 ii aililrr   Iijl.n  lire  o'rlsS-
niffliori. Lii *.r.r urr .i ..  rritti m ir.rl. NClihCri mnd  o0,de,, $'ri II ml,l:rr. Nc.  7':.dI,iJ d.arli.i 4 , -l^  4  milliL...
plrirnd  .k rI!ir,: I r  I,-   fll, .,ri.  fip.n - ih r 4-.I   I u,   v. milor.r-n  arid  S%,,di,h  h,-..nor II it, '  !h.on,
ri  .Cno nulin .j..  ..i1r,rci pd.Ai-11 lie .'i l t   S.
swap arbitrage resulted in an average savings  commercial paper available in the Swiss
of 38 basis points compared to the prevailing  money market. The program is intended to
cost of direct borrowings of U.S. dollars.   provide the IBRD additional flexibility in the
In addition, the IBRD also had a limited   management of its Swiss franc funding opera-
currency-swap program among the Deutsche     tions and responds to investor demand for such
mark bloc of currencies that involved swaps out  short-term assets. At the end of fiscal 1989,
of Deutsche mark and Netherlands guilders into  SwF62 million ($37 million equivalent) of
Swiss francs for an aggregate volume of $380  COPS were outstanding. Another development
million.                                     in the fiscal 1989 borrowing program included
The IBRD borrowed a total of seventeen     expansion of the IBRD's program of continu-
currencies. About 99 percent of its borrow-  ously offered longer-term securities (COLTS)
ings, after swaps, were in U.S. dollars, yen,  in the United States' medium-term note mar-
Deutsche mark, and Swiss francs. The borrow-  ket. This was the first full fiscal year in which
ings of thirteen other currencies, which en-  COLTS were sold through the expanded group
abled the IBRD to maintain its diversified   of fourteen U.S. regional agents and three
sources of funds, accounted for 24 percent of  Canadian agents, as well as five primary agents
borrowings before swaps and I percent after  based in New York city. COLTS transactions
swaps.                                       totaled $833 million. Reflecting the stronger
The IBRD engaged in its first public issue of  emphasis of COLTS sales to smaller institu-
Hong Kong dollars and was the first nonresi-  tions and large retail investors, the average
dent borrower in the Hong Kong domestic      size of COLTS sales declined from $5.5 million
market. It also engaged, in the Euromarket, in  in fiscal 1987 and $2.8 million in fiscal 1988, to
its first public issue of New Zealand dollars.  $1.3 million in fiscal 1989.
and was the first issuer of Swedish kronor in  Income, expenditures, and reserves.  The
the Euromarket.                              IBRD's gross revenues totaled $8,274 million
In October 1988, the IBRD initiated in Swit-  in fiscal 1989, down $275 million or 3.2 percent
zerland its continuously offered payment rights  from the previous year. The outstanding loan
(COPS) short-term   borrowing program  in    portfolio, after translation adjustments on non-
Swiss francs with maturities of up to one year.  dollar assets, totaled $77,942 million equiva-
COPS constitute the closest alternative to   lent in forty-two currencies at the end of fiscal



IBRD Finances  67
1989. The average interest rate on disbursed  Net income for fiscal 1989 was $263 million
and outstanding loans was 7.86 percent, pro-  lower than it otherwise would have been as a
ducing interest income of $6,394 million. In  result of interest income not accrued for these
addition, commitment charges of 0.75 percent  countries.
on undisbursed loan balances produced $272    Other expenses include interest and issuance
million. Altogether, the IBRD's income from  costs on borrowings, administrative expenses,
loans was $6,666 million, for a total return on  and $60 million in contributions to special
average loans during the fiscal year of 8.20  programs. Expenses totaled $7,120 million,
percent.                                    down 5 percent from the previous year. Costs
At the end of fiscal 1989, fixed-interest rates  associated with IBRD borrowings-interest of
applied to $38,266 million of disbursed and  $6,140 million and bond-issuance charges and
outstanding loans and to $2,178 million of  other borrowing expenses of $156 million-
undisbursed loans, while disbursed and out-  were by far the IBRD's major expenditures.
standing variable-rate loans totated $39,676  Administrative costs totaled $462 million, after
million, with $47,799 million of variable-rate  deducting $259 million for the management fee
loans undisbursed.                          charged to IDA, $3.5 million for the service-
At June 30, 1989, liquid assets aggregated  and-support fee charged to the IFC, and
$19,360 million net of commitments for settle-  $311,000 charged to MIGA.
ments and cash collateral received on loaned  All of the $1,004 million of net income
securities, a decrease of $157 million from a  earned in fiscal 1988 was allocated in fiscal
year earlier. Liquidity was at 52 percent of  1989 to the general reserve. This made a major
projected net cash requirements for the next  contribution to the improvement of the IBRD's
three years at the end of fiscal 1989, up from 50  R/L ratio from 9.3 percent to 10.2 percent.
percent at the end of fiscal 1988, primarily as a  The IBRD's principal financial statements
result of prepayments by three borrowers. The  are expressed in U.S. dollars. Translation ad-
IBRD's liquidity, targeted for at least 45 per-  justments at market rates of exchange gener-
cent, is designed to assure flexibility in its  ally affect the IBRD's stated loan balances and
borrowing decisions and to permit it to meet  other assets and liabilities, as well as the gen-
adequately its cash requirements in case bor-  eral reserve. Because the translation adjust-
rowings are temporarily affected by adverse  ment to loans was in rough proportion to that
conditions in the capital markets.          to reserves in fiscal 1989, the IBRD's R/L ratio
Liquid assets in fiscal 1989 yielded a realized  was little affected by exchange-rate move-
rate of return on average investments of 8.20  ments.
percent and generated $1,586 million of invest-  Loans: IBRD. As of the end of fiscal 1989,
ment income, including a net loss of $96 million  the IBRD held $127,918 million of loans. This
from sales of investments. An additional $22  included $14,972 million of loans that had been
million of revenues was derived from other  approved but not yet become effective and
income, including $6.5 million in net gains from  loans to the IFC of $1,077 million. Disbursed
the sale of loans.                          and outstanding loans, including $695 million
Net income of $1,094 million was 1.09 per-  to the IFC, totaled $77,942 million, a decrease
cent of average assets, up from the prior year's  of $3,849 million since June 30, 1988. The loan
0.98 percent. The IBRD's R/L ratio improved  balance would have been $5,788 million higher
to 10.2 percent from 9.3 percent, and, as a  but for translation adjustments.
result, the IBRD enjoyed a stronger financial  Gross disbursements on loans to countries
position with greater disposable income than a  totaled $11,310 million in fiscal 1989, compared
year earlier.                               with $11,636 million in fiscal 1988. Since the
Pursuant to the benchmark provisioning rate  IBRD  began operations, it has disbursed
of 1 percent monthly of the outstanding princi-  $112,021 million to its borrowing member
pal balance on nonaccruing loans, $358 million  countries. Net disbursements dropped from
(before $58 million in translation adjustments)  $3.4 billion to $1.9 billion due to large prepay-
was added to provisions for potential losses on  ments by some members. These amounted to
loans to nine countries that were six months or  $2.6 billion, including $1.3 billion by Romania,
more in arrears on debt service to the IBRD.  $0.7 billion by the Republic of Korea, and $0.3
This brought accumulated provisions to $800  billion by Thailand.
million, or 25 percent of nonaccruing loans.  Including prepayments, total repayments of
During fiscal 1989, one additional country went  principal on the IBRD's loans, based on ex-
into nonaccrual status, raising the volume of  change rates at the time of repayment,
nonaccruing loans to $3,193 million, just over 4  amounted to $9,454 million. Cumulative loan
percent of the IBRD's loan portfolio. This com-  repayments as of June 30, 1989, based on
pares with 3.6 percent at the end of fiscal 1988.  exchange rates at the time of disbursement,



68   World Bank Finances
were $43,933 million: $40,671 million to the  ment institutions, and central banks. Of the 710
IBRD and $3,262 million to purchasers of   medium-term and long-term new borrowing
loans.                                     operations that the IBRD conducted during
Borrowings: IBRD. Borrowings in interna-  fiscal 1989, including 656 COLTS transactions,
tional capital markets provide the major por-  703 were in the private sector throughout the
tion of the funds for the IBRD's lending oper-  world and accounted for $7,758 million, or 84
ations and are supplemented by the other   percent, of total new funds borrowed. The
principal financial resources of the IBRD,  other medium-term and long-term issues, total-
which are its usable paid-in capital, accumu-  ing $986 million, or 11 percent of the new
lated earnings, and loan repayments. Total  borrowings, were placed with official sources
borrowings by the IBRD settled in fiscal 1989  at market-based rates.
consisted of $8,744 million of new medium-   Short-term  borrowings  outstanding  on
term and long-term borrowings, plus incremen-  June 30, 1989, net of unamortized discounts,
tal short-term borrowings totaling $542 million  totaled $5,164 million: $2,528 million in the
(consisting of $505 million through the central  discount-note market ($40 million less than the
bank facility and $37 million equivalent   amount outstanding at the end of fiscal 1988);
through the COPS program). The comparable  $2,600 million in official borrowings through the
fiscal 1988 amount was $10,832 million (see  central bank facility (an increase of $505 million
Table 4-2). This fiscal 1989 total does not  over the amount outstanding at the end of fiscal
include $3,019 million of yen-denominated re-  1988); and $37 million in the new short-term
financings of prepaid issues or rollovers out of  Swiss franc borrowing program (COPS). This
short-term U.S. dollar borrowings that were  increase accounted for 5.8 percent of the fiscal
outstanding at the end of fiscal 1988-some  year's program of new borrowings.
$2,568 million in short-term notes and $2,095  The IBRD's securities have been placed
million in the central bank facility. Those refi-  with investors in more than 100 countries
nancings brought the IBRD's gross borrowings  throughout the world. Diversity in access al-
for fiscal 1989 to $16,968 million, some $2,629  lows the IBRD flexibility in selecting the mar-
million under fiscal 1988 totals.          kets that will allow optimum borrowing condi-
Direct short-term, medium-term, and long-  tions; the same diversity lessens its depen-
term borrowings in U.S. dollars contributed  dence on any specific market.
the largest share (39 percent), before swaps, of  A total of $8,139 million equivalent of debt,
the total borrowing program for fiscal 1989.  not including short-term notes, matured during
The balance of the borrowing program con-  the year. Additional debt, not including short-
sisted of direct borrowings of Japanese yen (22  term notes, aggregating $3,513 million, was
percent, excluding refinancings), Deutsche  retired by means of sinking-fund and purchase-
mark (8 percent), Swiss francs (7 percent), and  fund operations, and exercise of prepayment
thirteen other currencies (24 percent).    rights.
After taking into account currency swaps,  The IBRD's outstanding debt, net of dis-
which changed the "effective" currency struc-  counts and premia, decreased by $4,165 mil-
ture of the borrowing program, the borrowed  lion to $80,249 million as of June 30, 1989.
currencies in fiscal year 1989 were United  These  obligations  were  denominated  in
States dollars (62 percent), Japanese yen (19  twenty-three different currencies and currency
percent), Swiss francs (11 percent), Deutsche  units. A summary classification of outstanding
mark (7 percent), and other currencies (1 per-  borrowings, by currency, at June 30, 1989, is
cent).                                     set forth in the Summary Statements of Bor-
Swap transactions. Twenty-nine currency-  rowings in the IBRD Financial Statements.
swap transactions were settled in fiscal 1989,  (See page 192.)
aggregating $2,570 million.                  Cost of borrowings. The cost, after swaps,
Of the swaps completed during fiscal 1989,  of new borrowings by the IBRD in the fiscal
82 percent were into U.S. dollars; the remain-  year, weighted by amount, was 7.73 percent.
der were 15 percent into Swiss francs and 3  The equivalent figure for the $16,968 million
percent into yen. The currencies swapped out  of gross borrowings (new borrowings plus the
(vehicle currencies) reflect continued diversifi-  refinancing of $4,663 million of short-term debt
cation. (See Table 4-3.)                   and $3,019 million of yen-denominated prepay-
Sources of borrowings. The IBRD sells its  ments) was 7.64 percent. The average cost,
securities primarily in the private sector-mar-  after swaps, of total borrowings in fiscal 1989 is
kets where assets are offered to investors  categorized as follows: fixed-rate medium-
through public offerings, loans, and private  term and long-term borrowings of $8,744 mil-
placements. It also employs direct placement  lion cost 7.68 percent, and incremental short-
with official sources-governments, govern-  term borrowings of $542 million cost 8.67



IDA Finances  69
(IDA-9) were launched with a meeting of IDA
Table 4-4. Average Cost and Nlaturilt      deputies in Washington, D.C., in February
of the IBRD's Tolal Borro%%ings            1989 under the chairmanship of the Bank's
Outstanding. Fiscal *-ears 1985-89         senior vice president, finance. The IDA depu-
A.e"13Se               A%er.t-     ties, the representatives of the donor coun-
princIp.,I  A f,:      rn)JII.r,r  tries, reviewed IDA's programs as they had
ow%rjn ing    ,,         ..r2 -,end  evolved in recent years as a basis for consid-
Y-ia  i LISS mdlim~ 1recnijr ering the role of IDA during the IDA-9 com-
19- S   4h.06Vh                'i          mitment period, fiscal years 1991-93.
19h86   (..8I1       , 25       h. Ir       In their discussions, deputies focused on
1987     's.7              -              IDA's role in adjustment lending, poverty re-
19NIS   1.269        ,.4'       6.54      duction, the environment, human-resource de-
1489   19'.34         3M Ah.'l            velopment, aid coordination, and the alloca-
tion of IDA resources among countries and
regions. They noted with approval the adapta-
percent. In addition, refinancing of short-term  tions that IDA had made over the past four
borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal  years to the changing needs of its borrowers.
1988 cost 8.77 percent.                    All deputies agreed that it was important to
In recent years, the IBRD has used variable-  reach a timely agreement on an adequate IDA-
rate and short-term borrowings to take advan-  9 so that resources would be available by July
tage of lower interest rates at the short end of  1990, the beginning of the IDA-9 commitment
the yield curve in U.S. dollars. In fiscal 1989,  period.
however, the IBRD engaged in no new vari-    The second meeting of the IDA deputies was
able-rate borrowings.                      held on May 17-18 in London to consider
The after-swap cost of the IBRD's average  issues related to the allocation, eligibility, and
outstanding borrowings was 7.38 percent,   the size of the ninth replenishment. With re-
compared with 7.47 percent for fiscal 1988.  gard to country allocations, deputies took the
The average cost of total funds to the IBRD  view that performance criteria should be ap-
(debt plus equity, that is, usable capital, re-  plied universally. In addition to country size,
serves, and retained earnings) was 6.31 per-  relative poverty, and lack of creditworthiness,
cent, compared with 6.46 percent for the prior  performance should be a key determinant of
year. The cost, after swaps, of the IBRD's  allocations to individual countries and perfor-
average outstanding borrowings for each of the  mance criteria ought to include the quality of
past five fiscal years, as well as their average  economic management and policies for pov-
maturities at fiscal-year end, is summarized in  erty reduction and sustainable development. In
Table 4-4.                                 addition, there was general agreement among
Prepayment of borrowings. Prepayments    the deputies in support of the proposal to
were made by the IBRD of $3.4 billion equiv-  increase emphasis on human-resource devel-
alent on selected issues of its securities, pri-  opment. Deputies also emphasized IDA's role
marily in Japanese yen ($3,085 million), in  in supporting growth-oriented poverty reduc-
Austrian schillings ($47 million), in Belgian  tion, population planning, environmental pro-
francs ($76 million), and in Swiss francs ($179  tection, institutional development, and women
million). The IBRD refinanced $3,019 million  in development.
of the yen prepayments, resulting in savings in  Three further meetings were planned for the
present-value terms of $217 million equivalent  remainder of calendar year 1989. The first was
for prepayments of which notice was given  scheduled to take place in Copenhagen on
during fiscal 1989, and $296 million equivalent  July 6-7; the second was planned for Septem-
for prepayments settled in that year. The other  ber. to coincide with the annual meetings of the
prepaid borrowings (those not refinanced)  IMF and the Bank; the third was slated to be
would produce notional present-value savings  held in Kyoto in November. It is expected that
of about $15 million over the remaining life of  negotiations would be concluded at the Kyoto
the borrowings, based on the estimated or  meeting.
actual refinancing costs at the time of the  IDA financial policies. With the maturing of
prepayment decision.                       IDA's portfolio and an increasing number of
Capitalization. Capital subscribed in fiscal  credits reaching their twentieth year, a year in
1989 is shown in Table 4-5.                which amortization accelerates, repayments of
IDA credits are expected to rise rapidly-from
IDA Finances                               $188 million in fiscal 1989 to almost $900
IDA-9 negotiations. The negotiations for  million in fiscal 1999, making $5.4 billion avail-
the ninth replenishment of IDA resources   able over the period.



70    World Bank Finances
Table 4-5. Capital Subscriptions, Fiscal Year 1989
Amount                                         Amount
iSDR                                           (SDR
Type and countrt                     milllon>)       Type and countr%               millions)
General capittal in ea se of 1980                    Benin                              0.1
Benin                                    2.5         B-azil                            23.5
Cape Verde                               11.8        Burkina Faso                       0.9
Comoros                                  1.5         Burundi                            0.2
Djibouti                                25.6         Cameroon                           3.6
Guinea-Bissau                          3(08.9        Cape Verde                         0 4
Kiribati                                25 0         Central Afncan Repubhc             0.2
Madagascar                               2 9         Chad                               0.1
Mauritania                              11 0         Colombia                           6.6
Poland                                   I S         Comoros                            0.1
Subtotal                             390 7         Cole d Ivoire                     10.0
Ecuador                            9.4
Gefnes al capital increa e of 1988                   Egypt, Arab Republic of           37.0
Australia                              788 0         Gabon                              7.4
Austna                                 485 4         Guatemala                          6.3
Barbados                                41.6         Guinea                             1.2
Belgium                                472 0         Guinea-Bissau                      0 I
Botswana                                27 0         lHaiti                             1 0
Canada                                 2314          India                            130 5
Chile                                  304 1         Indonesia                          7.1
Denmark                                449 8         Iraq                              70 7
Finland                                 75 1         Italf                            529.8
France                                 828 0         Korea, Republic of               166.4
Germany. Federal Republic of          3.176 7        Lesotho                            1.0
Hungaiy                                353.2         Mali                               0.9
Iceland                                 5S 2         Mauritania                         I I
Indonesia                               131 4        Mexico                           lo(' 0
Ireland                                231 3         Nlorocco                           4 2
Japan                                 4 114.4        Netherlands                      2i4.4
Kenva                                  108 0         Nigeria                           13 6
Lu\embourg                              14 5         Oman                              I 0
Mvanmar'                                18 1         Paraguay                           4 5
New Zealand                             63.5         Poland                           278.4
Norway                                  113.5        Seychelles                         0.2
Portugal                               239.6         Sierra Leone                       0.3
St Lucia                                24.2         Somalia                            1.3
Svweden                                657.0         Spain                             23.5
Turkex                                 323.8         Tanzania                           2 7
United Kingdom                        3,045.0        rhailand                          21 4
United States                         1.381 6        Turkey                            44.0
Subtotal                           17.793 4        Uganda                             3.4
Yemen Arab Republic               11.8
Otlhei icreascs in sah sriptions                    Zambia                             5.2
Algeria                                 43.7           Subtotal                     I.941.3
Argentina                               62.4           Grand total                  20.087.4
Austialia                               17.8
Bangladesh                               2 9
a Formest\ Burnma



Disbursements by Source of Supply  71
In the past, the Association made credit com-  tributions and advance reflows. Against these
mitments against reflows only as they were  resources, the Association approved 106 cred-
actually received. This practice was continued  its totaling SDR3,738 million.
until fiscal 1984, when the executive directors  Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa. The
decided to set aside reflows to help meet a  facility was established on May 21, 1985, by a
resource shortfall under IDA-5 arising from  resolution of the IDA executive directors. The
unfavorable movements of exchange rates. The  facility mobilized two types of resources: funds
IDA-5 shortfall has been fully covered, and  provided as direct contributions (60 percent)
reflows have become available for other uses. If  from thirteen bilateral donors and in the form of
this past approach of committing reflows only  special joint financing (40 percent) from six
as they were received had been continued, in  bilateral donors. The IBRD also participated
future years, as the volume of reflows became  with a contribution to the facility of $150 mil-
much larger, IDA would have had an exces-  lion.
sively high level of liquidity.             The facility is administered by IDA, and the
On September 23, 1988, the executive direc-  resources made available in the form of direct
tors approved the use of future repayments to  contributions are kept separate from the re-
increase the Association's commitment author-  sources of IDA. The contributions to the facil-
ity in advance of their actual receipt. They  ity were fully committed by the Association for
approved annual commitments of SDR525 mil-  facility credits by the end of June 1988. Since
lion for the period fiscal 1989-93 in the form of  its inception, the facility has extended credits,
advance commitments. In addition, annual allo-  financed from  direct contributions, special
cations may be made out of investment earnings  joint financing, and accumulated investment
on donor contributions and the 10 percent of  income, totaling SDRI,540 million, to twenty-
reflows that are not being committed in ad-  five countries in sub-Saharan Africa. As of
vance. The latter represents a supplement to  June 30, 1989, about 88 percent of the facility's
IDA resources that are being made available in  commitments had been disbursed; the balance
the form of fast-disbursing adjustment credits to  is expected to be disbursed in fiscal 1990.
support IDA-only countries that are not only
implementing agreed adjustment programs, but  Disbursements by Source of Supply
have outstanding IBRD debt, as well. (For a  Projects financed by the World Bank require
complete list of those countries receiving IDA  foreign and local expenditures to achieve proj-
reflows in fiscal 1989, see Table 3-2 on page 44.)  ect goals. Disbursements are made to cover
IDA Commitment Authority. During fiscal  specific foreign costs and, in addition, are
1989, the Association received additional IDA-  often made to finance some local expenditures.
8 notifications of participation representing  The specific procurement rules and proce-
about 11.5 percent of the IDA-8 basic replen-  dures to be followed in the execution of a
ishment from the following donors: Belgium,  project depend on the circumstances of the
Brazil, Colombia, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland,  particular case. Three considerations, however,
Saudi Arabia, Spain, and Yugoslavia. At June  generally guide the Bank's requirements: the
30, 1989, only Argentina had not submitted its  need for economy and efficiency in the execu-
formal notifications of participation in IDA-8.  tion of the project; the Bank's interest, as a
Its share in IDA-8, at rates agreed upon in the  cooperative institution, in giving all eligible bid-
IDA-8 resolution, is 0.21 percent.        ders from developing and developed countries
Because of the temporary shortfall in com-  an opportunity to compete in providing goods
mitment authority at the beginning of fiscal  and works financed by the Bank; and the
1989, donors were requested to advance the  Bank's interest, as a development institution, in
release of their IDA-8 second tranche prior to  encouraging the development of local contrac-
the scheduled release date of November 1,  tors and manufacturers in the borrowing coun-
1988. Donors that responded to this request  try.
included Austria, Denmark, Finland, France,  In most cases, these needs can be best
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, the  realized through international competitive bid-
Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Mexico, the Neth-  ding, properly administered, and with suitable
erlands, New Zealand, Sweden, Turkey, and  allowance for preferences for local or regional
the United Kingdom. The IDA-8 second      manufacturers of goods, and, where appropri-
tranches eventually became effective on No-  ate, for local contractors for works under pre-
vember 30, 1988, when the United States sub-  scribed conditions.
mitted its IDA-8 second installment.        Through the end of fiscal year 1989, 64
The overall resources available for commit-  percent of IBRD and IDA disbursements cov-
ment in the fiscal year amounted to SDR4,319  ered goods and services provided directly by
million. This amount included both donor con-  suppliers located outside the borrowing coun-



72   World Bank Finances
Table 4-6. IBRD and IDA Foreign and Local Disbursemenits, by Source of Supply
n,  unIriev    4iS1   452t 3.MI9n^  333566 l45112       27525      4961.5      1.
t- urnnillli.                                           C tumulrITe
Junre In  i  4  y  Fi-3   196 ,  1-,%: l I2m  F  .I l Pigs FIi.,4 1 ll S Ine 1 )   1990
Nrn .E,ni  A ML'.u ni  -  MOLint  -  Am"1rt unt niouni  A mount 
BRD r. , .
Li  s1,1   II ,11   li I
"art I upphl irig
couniries     411.b'65  45  I.'A19 3 11 i.f, 6 32.4 5.1J2i 125 i'.22  1.94,9  W.65i  412'
Non-P,r! I
vupp' IrEi
cktinlrles     4 .           16  t)   1,i   9S 49  2  I 5  3  '  1   14 I   1  1(.72(  7.
T.AalI4 4..I1 Ai          4.1136 39.6 7.19 2xIS 4 h ,-9S 44 3 2.73 4501 7U.9435  4X,'
P.Lri I tnp.)ing
co!uniriII. 12 1.i4 15 1 1 9I.4'' 12i 1,4' I'  63.S 1  92.-1 ll 4  1.1'1 6.5 94064.11
NoDn-Rir I
dI,6un;.Lmenii1 42.  34 ';  I;4  t,4 4  '.91 _.373  3ri.4 b.If 2 391. ' )97 3ni   , 53.1.5  36.2
Tir an.  IiI   11A2  I  Illi  11.48111111 1  '  . 1  .  S33 lllI  I51k 4Y ll 6l t 4'l  1).1
Sp . l.i.iI F     .9' ti 1.~.  ^1 jS.)r  ' .i II.lh 1i 4,n  2. .  e  l.,   id4 2 im;ren l In i-. ' 4 iJ  Ih hr 2i 2- .2 iJeal  mr.  i
tBRy. Wil IodA
folmhur  s ienn d4,e.vele4 mem>  b 6e,r1 cu   ti  fo4rgt di. s. b 9.r1s ents 4  f,ort go od 94works and4,
IHRD  awd IDsA  T   u   t   e    o  i
d195,disbrenm e1n94t to t4 e 4supp,iers it   I  In.a4 6nci' ng t. o.79   3.001 '46.0
(armontd to 78    1pr1cn  1D.4un  iscalll. 14ye Iar Theto 1ta vl 1m11e11 I nanci. ng)Ol 11 4antic Ipatedin
1989.f tRhe  lamrun ewas,,oe 1i3.-9r-n,cpro c n 1su3p. p.o rht IFC and K ' IWorl.d, IDA ficurti indadc Sted o Ip Frtio ap-
'spv,Ill F-,Il,l   1 ,f  ul^- S-Alr;,  frr\Jrl ~redll .,rld \:1AIJlI e-.hh .:L iwtrnleni, In D,1  145" Leilas   m: not
A,i.   r., -[zl  1V:.J  r.,rl!n
try. While most foreign procurement comes      Table 4-9 is a record of IBRD and IDA
from suppliers in developed member countries  foreign disbursements for goods, works, and
and Switzerland, developing-country suppliers  services from Part I and selected non-Part I
have become increasingly effective in winning  countries in fiscal 1989.
contract awards. Through the end of fiscat
1985, disbursements   to  these  suppliers   Cosoinancing
amounted to 7.8 percent. During fiscal year    The total volume of cofinancing anticipated in
1989. the amount was 13.9 percent.           support of World Bank-assisted operations ap-
Table 4-6 shows consolidated foreign and   proved in fiscal 1989 reached an unprecedented
local disbursements to the end of fiscal 1985,  $9.9 billion. For the first time ever, more than
for each of the next four fiscal years, and to the  half of all World Bank-assisted projects and
end of fiscal 1989.                          programs attracted some form of cofinancing
Locale4 produced goods and services usually   (see Table 4-10). By regiono 31 percent of the
include a significant foreign-exchange compo-  cofinancing volume was for operations in Asia,
nent. Cumulative local disbursenrents in-    26 percent in Africa, 22 percent in Latin Amer-
creased from 34.2 percent at the end of fiscal  ica and the Caribbean, and 21 percent in the
1985 to about 39 percent at the end of fiscal  Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region.
1989. Table 4-7 shows disbursements made in  In terms of operations, the distribution by re-
fiscal 1989 by the IBRD and IDA for local    gion indicates that 45 percent was in Africa, 26
procurement from selected non-Part I coun-   percent in Asia, 15 percent in Latin America
tries and disbursements made for goods,      and the Caribbean, and 14 percent in the Eu-
works, and services procured from them by    rope, Middle East, and North Africa region.
World Bank borrowers.                          The largest source of cofinancing continued
Table 4-8 shows IBRD and IDA foreign       to be official bilateral aid agencies and mutti-
disbursements by supplying Part I and selected  lateral development institutions, which, to-
non-Part I countries.                        gether, accounted for $5.7 billion. Export-



Cofinancing     73
Table 4-7. IBRD and IDA Disbursements for Goods, Works, and Services Procured
from Selected Non-Ilart I Countries, Fiscal Year 1989
1.-IIt'iiiit\ in U>s miiillions ewwasaleno)
Percentage
Local            foreign          Total            of total
Non-Putt I c.ilitr eS               r-ocuremcnt       p:.'curemcn(      alinint        disbursemrnita
India                                  1,165                67           1,232              8.2
lndonstia                               767                 62             830
Brazil                                  561                217             779              9.2
Mexico                                  626                 33             659              4.4
(Chinia                                  31ut              174             483              3.2
Korea. Republic of                      313                169             483              3.2
A\gecntina                              138               217             355               2 4
Colomhta                                167                 44             212              1 4
Pakistan                                 16S                33             201              1 3
Morocco                                 181                 13             194              1 3
Singapore                                  1               192             193              1.3
Yugoslavia                               65                III             176              1.2
Chile                                    116                27             142              0.9
.\1alaysia                               96,                43             13"              0.9
Pliippitncs                              10                 5             Ill              0.7
I raq                                    -                 103             103              0.7
TLiikey                                  .IS                55             103              0.7
an-gladesh                               88                 13             101              0 7
I hailand                                64                23              86               0.6
Spain                                                       76              76              0.5
C6te d'lvoire                             57                17              75              0.5
Iutl tuga.                               33                 26              59              0 4
NIacria                                  23                 35              58              0.4
Tuni,sta                                  51                 4              55              04
Jordan                                    26                12              37              0 2
Romania                                    1                34              36              0.2
Papua New Guitea                         35                 -               35              0.2
Bolivia                                  26                  8              34              0 2
IKenwa                                   19                 Is              33              0.2
Sri Lanka                                28                  3              30             01.2
P1(land                                  -                  29              29              0.2
Caincmooii                                                   -5             28              0.2
l lungary                                 5                 23              27              0.2
Senegal                                   16                1 2             2'              0.2
Niger                                    26                  1              27              0 2
Saudi Arabia                             -                  26              26              l 2
Leuador                                  24                  1              26              0 2
Molawl                                   22                  2              24              0 2
Filliopi:                                22                  1              23              0 2
Oman                                       8                12              20t             0.1
Tot..l                               5,426             1.942           7.367             4,C9
\F rF 1) ails may not ai.l to totals he,ause ot roundig
a Re^.r, to developrig-couniry shares of total disbursements.



7     World Bank Pinances
Table 4-8. IBRI) and IDX I Foreigl Disburwsnents. by SoIIrce of Supply
(amounts in US$ millions equivalent)
IPRI) cumulati%e                 IDA cinimutitive to
to June 30. 19's  IBRD Fiscal 19S9  June 30, 1988   IDA fiscal 1989
Amount    'c     Amount   <Th     Amouint   "I     Amount     %                A
Pail I kupplxz lii (o/IPID IcC
Australia                           s57     0 9     126      1 9      246      1 2     33       1 3
Austria                             643     1 0      71      1 1      118     06        11      0.4
Belgium                             942     1.5      84      1.2      544     2.6      83       3.3
Canada                            1.449     2 3     197      2 9      416     2 0      45       1.8
Denmaik                             331     ( 5      26      0.4      147     0.7       15      0 6
Finland                             210     0.3      37      0 6       52     0 2       9       0.4
I rance                           4.444     6 9     361      5 3    2 038     9.8     275      11.0
Gennanv, Federal Republic of      7.676    12 )     621      9.2    2.224     10 7     237      9 5
Iceland                               3       5       I                 I              -        -
Irelond                              54     01       12      02        24     0.1       7       03
Pials                             3,971     6.2     312      4 6    1.002     4 8      71       2.9
Japan                            10,073    IS 7    1.049    15.5    2.980     14.4     272     10 9
Kuwait                              130     0 2      29      0.4       68     0.3       11      0.4
Luxembourg                           44     0 1       9      0.1       25     0.1        I
Netherlands                       1.133     1 8     l0;      I c      477     2 3      66       2 6
New Zealand                         I(0     0 2      13      ( 2       29     0.1       9       0.4
Norsv,t                             162     03       16      02        44     02        15      06
South Africa                        262     0.4      21      0 1      179     0 9       39      1 6
Ssecden                           1.138     1 8      92      14       298      1 4      18      0 7
Switzerland                       2.610     4.1     317      4 7      592     2 9      69       28
United Arab Emirates                346     0 5      18      0 3      207      1 0     35       1 4
United Kingdom                    5.121     8 0     546      8 1    2.941     14 2    389      15 6
United States                    I * 994   21 8   1.196     17.7    2.486     12.0    212       8 5
Iotal                          55,396    86 3   5 299     77.6   17.138    82 6    1,922     77 0
,Vo,i-Pa,i I  up/)IviI'. up umol wies
Argenina                            375     0 6     196      2.9       Ic     0 1       21      09
Brazil                              664     1.0     172      2 5      122     0 6      45       1.8
Chile                               255     0.4      14      0.2        6               13      0 5
China                               175     03       76      1 1      261      1 3     98       3.9
Colombia                            227     0 4      44      0.6        4              -        -
India                               291     0 5      32      0.5      338      1 6     36       1 4
Indonesia                           179     0.3      52      0 8       14     0.1      I1       0.4
Iraq                                 Ss8    0 6     103      1.5       23     01i
Korea, Republic ot                  436     0.7     139      2 1      432     2 1      30       1 2
Malavsia                            199     0 3      25      0 4      130     0 6       19      0 7
Mexico                              265     0 4      31      0 5       62     0.3        2      0.1
Nigeria                              92     0.1       7      0 1       35     0 2       28      1 1
Pakistan                             90     01       19      (3        95     0 5       14      0 6
Poland                                8              26      0.4        1                3      0.1
Romania                             169     03       27      0 4       46      0 2       8      0 3
Saudi \iabia                        248     04       25      04       113     0.5        I      0.1
Slilnapole                          361     0 6     165      2.4      248      1 2      27      1 1
Spain                               676     11       62      0 9      143     1 07      14      0 6
Furkes                              134    t( 2      55     t X        14     0 I        I
Yu!oslavia                         653     1 0     lOb      1.6      132     0 6        5      0 2
Others                            2.921     46      141      2.1     1.367     6 6     199      8 0
lotal                           8.776    13 7   1,514    22 4     3.601    17.4     575     23.0
Total foieign disburs,ements     64.172   100 (t  6.773    100 t)  20.738    10  0  2.497    100 0
NOTL     iiegligble -  n- il
Details nma) ii(nt dd to tota'k because of rounding



Cotinancing     75
lable 4-9. 1IIRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Source ot Supply
and Description of Goods, Fiscal Y'ear 1989
tuiin:s i m tas: millions cqa!valenti
1 otal
Equipment      Ci' it *Nrk,  ('n vnsiiiUni  All other goods  disbn eienets
Source                    Amouint  §      Amenknin       AmoLiT 11.    Anon int         \mi Lini
Palt / siqupphlfig roiltlles
Australia                   26      07     -       -      11     17      122     2.8     15s      1 7
Au.tsla                     58     1I      -       -      2      02       23     (I       82      0 9
lchŽuiZin                   61      1 6     2     0 4    21       2       84     1 9     167      1.8
Canada                      s3      1 4     9      1.6   48      75      133     31     242      2 6
Denmnirk                     I I    0 3     4     07      7       1   1      I8  (14      41      0 4
Finland                     27      ( 7    -       -       I     0.1      19     0 4      4'     0.5
France                     2 30     6.1    44     8 3    97     15 2     26S     61      616      6 9
CGcrm;inv. Federil
Rcpuibic of              486     12 9    28       4    49      r      294      68      8zs     9.3
Iceland                     -       -      -       -         -   -         I 
Treland                      2       A     -       -          ;   7       12     0 3      19     () 2
italy                      170      4.5    69    13.0   14      2.1    131      3 0     384      4 1
Japan                      9(14    24 0    8;     Ih 0    17     2 6     (16     73    1.321     14 3
Kuwtlaixt                   -       -      -       -     -       -       4(0     0 9      40     0.4
LJixenibourg                 5      0 1     1     0.2      1     0.1       4     0 1      10        I
NelhcilanJs                 53      1 4     4     0 7    22      3 4      92     21      17/)     18
Nzw Zealand                  I       *     -       -             0 9      16     0 4      22      0.2
Norway                       6      02     -       -       I     0 2      24      6 6     1       1) 3
South Africa                16      O 4           0 I    -       -        44     I 0      60      0 6
Sv eden                    65       1.7     4     (07     c      0.8      38     0 9     110      ).2
SvsitLerland               143      3.8    29     5       1-     2 7     197     45      386      4 2
Uiiitcd Arab Frir.i-cs      13      0 3     2     0 4     2      0 3      36     0) 8     S3     0 6
United Kingdom             329     8.8    21      4 1   115    1 9     4701    tO 8     935     10 1
United States              495     13 2    12     2 3   133     20 8    708     17 7   1.408     15 2
Total                  3,150)   83 8    311    59 2   57i     89.3   t. 14i   72 4   7.181     77 5
coultntrli
Aigeaitva                   19      0.5     4     08      8      12      186     4.1     217      21
131,1/11                   120      3 2     1     02      2      o.      94      2 '     217     23
Chile                       II      0 3    -       -     -       -        15     0 4      27      0 3
C,uia                       22      0 6    74    14 0      1     0 1      77     1.8     174      19
Coloml'ia                    3      ( 1     2     0)       I     11 2     38     0.9      44      05
India                       29      0 8     7     1.3    11      17       2(0    1        67      0 7
Inudinela                   28      ( 8    I1     2 2      1     0         I     0.       62      07
au*q                       -       -     -       -      -       -      13     2 4      103     11
Korea, Republic of         101      2 7    I6     31      3      0 4             I( I1   169      1s
\,atliysi.i                  8      (12    -       -     - ?11           s3      l).8     41      0 5
Me\ico                       9      02     -       -     -       -       25      06       33      0 4
Nigeria                      I              I     01     -       -        '      08       35      0.4
P.akist::n                   8      0 2    -       -      1      (1       24     1)(      33     0(4
Poland                       8      0 2     2     0 4    -       -        19     0 4      29     03
Rnmil.i.                    10(     0.3     1     II(.   -       -        24     0.6      14      0 4
Saudi Aiabra                 I             -       -     -       -               ) 6      26     (3
Singapoic                   49      1 3     5     09      8      1.3     13(1    311     192      21
Sp.liu                      21      0.6     6      1.2     1     0 2      48     1.1      76     0 8
Tuikey                      26      07      9      17      I     02       In     04       ;5      0 6
Yugos:avia                  65      1.7    33     6 2    -       -        I      03      II I     12
Others                      7(      1.9    42     80     29      4 5     199     4 6     3411     37
Tot.Al                    S8     16 2   215    40 8    69     1( 'I   1.191   27 6   218.9     225
I ot:ii flrergn
dil'iii eincints       3 758    1()0 (  S28   tOl ()  641    10i 0   4 '42   1010 0  9.270    1(10 O
N,  r I = negti:ible -  nil Det,ilisa, not add (AA totals beeaiv ol rrindiiig I studcs disbursements on B-loins and
loans to the IFC



76    World Bank Finances
Tah(*, 4-1). W\orld Bank Corinancing Operations. b) Region. Fiscal Y'ears 1988-89
I   1..,fls  Ir  I  S' rr,rII,rr. I
C.-i.wln ,er,  orm,ai.or.bll
Prf -  i l (rrI1if   .ri  E% 'pri  refir  F'rr . ,JIe  t4.I.r,Fk,1 P I .Ti. n  T.tkl
proI~i~ 
Re.L,n .rn.1 c srr  N.  Irrn-uri N,. Arr.,.1jn  \,I  Amrorunt N. Amiunt  IR fD  ID.A  C;.'T
I'1).NX        il  1,'43   h  i 2 I  1 INA  3  I 1 11) II   3i1 3  >2u   -  I -5  .4  4.80I3.9
I rIS I           '.h211  I  tI I  I  4                        I 202  '  U  It {   rxJ4  I  I .I44.t1  6.5 54   U
l:SS            23  .S     ir   2s;.          >4 S      '   s ,C I iis (I  361.4 5759.2
11159           14 U1i94  I  1 ,I XS    '   I4 S3 1,  2   -9 I., 1.9I -  4415.2 14.432.4
I- iJnrrp Nlvi,]dle F. >i . .rnd
Ni,rih Mlrk;r
Its I                   I   I               Is 2f,S¢  X  1  .2  i  l . 14i.1  A  4113.11  1 35. I  2 45;. 1 I .676.
Lafin \nienC:., and ICe
C Lirrhhb:rn
uI >            -     0'.ill  t)  44i.  2    rili I  I   2   iU  i 'i`4  1  42.11  2 oS; 1
Ius,S           j I' 2.141 .4  4  9!:.i U v  1.I ih.4 U  11  L II  f ;,4LI.I  11117  IS 06b2 4
I"sS           1lid r1..4(t' I  N   S  1   2. Is  4     6 h;' 1    A  2.6 t.'  9  Is.2'4
1  H   'J.'142.)  1 21.  i h.65 .l  21  1. I'nA,  | .(i5  9. '4-.4  1.5114.4  15i.A1   4
Na.tE ,r  1  r-~.  1i-ure. ..  I,':Vvl  r r -r p,.r.   limp.r ,nI rl.~r I.  rn , I-  .....,d rre-n.tr ,ion  nid  ire lubkrqrenil,
I I drid i. -  ri1,I i  a.li.i I rir, ri,   ..nrrrrnIr ..  1,:. I n.:  ,i  rrI1  1 I,  urnIrr r.  i .  r irf  rh; rI N   ina-  I ZL(in  r,rm:  II5  ourz  is grcier thar,
Ire nl,u.lih.:i oi p-...,,i ir  n,.i C .,,c   riu-r .n:   prin.o.r .mr. ..,Irn.,r,ce.   I' ,rc rh.r-.  -- a-r.:  LVir..rlk  mr.,  nor .dd I-i
Am, A r jT   Jn .I,.e ...rr c-, i ur.n  n,nc.i I.rri, Tfr.m  Irc E  Ir.ni,ori Bon l ri I,r,n
credit flows increased significantly over the   vided to the group of twenty-two countries
volume of recent years, reaching an estimated   eligible for SPA funding.
$3.2 billion. including approximately $1 billion  The government of Japan has appointed the
from  the untied loan facility of the Export-   Bank as administrator of a Y30 billion untied
Import Bank of Japan. Commercial-bank cofi-    grant facility. These untied grants are intended
nancing accounted for $1.1 billion.             mainly for technical assistance in project pre-
In fiscal 1989. the volume of cofinancing    paratory and implementation work in countries
with official aid agencies reflected a large in-  that are borrowers of IBRD funds. Japan has
crease in commitments from the whole of the     contributed a total of Y25 billion to the facility.
donor community, as the Bank continued ef-        Over the past three fiscal years. the untied
forts to coordinate its lending activities with  loan facility of the Export-import Bank of
those of other multilateral and bilateral donors.  Japan has been particularly important for the
Cofinancing consultations were held with rep-   World Bank's cofinancing program. Under this
resentatives of eleven such agencies during the  facility, the Export-Import Bank of Japan pro-
year. To date, consultant trust funds have been  vides capital to developing-country borrowers
established with twenty-two donors. Under       on an untied basis. To date, thirteen loan
these agreements, donors have committed         agreements have been concluded between the
about $28 million in grant funds to support     Export-Import Bank of Japan and World Bank
World Bank operational work. Discussions        borrowers for a total of $3.9 billion equivalent
with other prospective donors for establishing  in cofinancing, of which five agreements, for a
consultant trust funds are under way.           total of $1.2 billion equivalent, were concluded
Fiscal 1989 was the second year of the       in fiscal 1989. A number of additional opera-
three-year, multidonor special program of as-   tions are under active consideration for a sim-
sistance (SPA) in support of adjustment pro-    ilar volume of cofinancing in fiscal 1990.
grams in sub-Saharan Africa. In addition to the   The enhanced contacts between the World
fiscal 1989 cofinancing amount of $2.620 mil-   Bank and export-credit agencies over the past
lion to the Africa region as a whole, some $1.1  few years have contributed to the adoption by
billion in coordinated financing (quick-disburs-  these agencies of policies that are increasingly
ing financing administered by donors) was pro-  more helpful to the adjustment efforts of the



Cofinancing  77
highly indebted, middle-income countries. The  support for private-sector initiatives in devel-
last meeting (in May 1988) of the Bank with  oping countries. Possible modalities for such
industrial-country export-credit agencies ex-  collaboration are currently being discussed by
plored a new area of possible operational col-  Bank staff with a working group set up by the
laboration to facilitate greater export-credit  Berne Union.



78
Section Five
World Bank Policies and Operations
Review of Experience with                        the investment/gross domestic product (GDP)
Adjustment Lending                               ratio for nearly two thirds of the group of
A comprehensive review of the World Bank's    thirty.
experience with adjustment lending' concludes      * Inflation fell in about half of the group of
that, by and large, average economic perfor-     thirty countries.
mance during the 1980s of countries that re-       * External-debt indicators  improved    for
ceived support for adjustment-as measured by     about half the recipients of adjustment lending,
a number of indicators-was moderately better     especially among the low-income ones.
than that of countries which did not.2             * The dozen "adjustment-intensive" coun-
The study noted that the average improve-      tries improved their relative performance in 62
ments in growth and the resource balance were    percent of the cases for low-income countries
greater for adjusting countries than for nonad-  and 63 percent for middle-income countries.
justing countries. In addition, the improved    Nane Improved thet  r posgtion on external bal-
performance was noteworthy because adjust-       ance and eight on GDP growth and debt ser-
ing countries faced larger external shocks than  vice.
did the nonadjusting countries during the ad-      The Bank study cautioned, however, that,
justment process.                                because it was not possible to isolate the
The review, which was undertaken by a          effects of adjustment lending from other fac-
team under the leadership of the Bank's vice     tors (such as external shocks and prevailing
president for development economics and          distortions), its conclusions about the effects
chief economist, also reaffirmed that, given the  of adjustment lending had to be based on
high economic and social costs of rapid forced   incomplete evidence.
adjustment to the severe shocks of the decade.     The study also noted that, despite the pres-
quickly disbursing loans should continue to be   ence of indicators showing relative improve-
a major form   of Bank assistance-but with       ments. several factors continue to bring the
refinements and clarifications in their design   sustainability  of adjustment programs into
and implementation so as to strengthen their
effectiveness.
Measuring Adjustment's Successes. To mea-       World Bank, Adjuistment Lending: An Evaluation of Ten
sure the success of adjustment operations. the    Years of Experience. Policy and Research Report I (Wash-
Bank study compared the experience of thirty      ington. D.C.. March 1989).
adjusting countries that had received Bank       2 Structural-adjustment lending was initiated in 1980 in re-
adjustment loans before 1985 (and, more par-      sponse to the serious balance-of-payments prob-
lems-stemming mainly from a sharp deterioration in
ticularly, of twelve that had received three or   terms of trade and from a legacy of weaknesses in domes-
more such loans before 1986)3 with a control      tic policies and institutions-affecting many developing
group of sixty-three countries that had not.      countries.
Among the group of thirty, which, on the          It was initially expected that structural-adjustment
averag, face large extenal shcks thn did loans to a country would continue for three to five years.
average, faced larger external shocks than did    Adjustment lending has intensified, however, rather than
the group of sixty-three, several aspects of      disappeared, as developments in the 1980s departed
performance stood out:                            greatly from what was expected at the start of the decade.
* The relative growth of about half the re-     The terms of trade for most developing countries deterio-
rated further, real interest rates increased, the debt crisis
cipients of adjustment lending improved.          and worldwide recession spread, and industrial-country
* The real exchange rate depreciated more       growth remained below the levels of earlier decades.
for about two thirds of the thirty countries,     Moreover, the scope of adjustment lending widened with
mirrored in the relative improvement for ex-      the introduction of less comprehensive sectoral-adjust-
ports and the current account.       ~ment loans.
ports and the current account.       ~Brazil, C6te d'tvoire. Ghana, Jamnaica. Kenya. Republic of
* The burden of adjustment fell heavily on      Korea. Malawi, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philippines. Tur-
investment: There was a relative worsening of     key, and Zambia.



Review of Adjustment Lending  79
question. Investment ratios have declined, and  was deemed to be "substantial" were also
budget deficits are higher in the highly in-  included.
debted and sub-Saharan African countries. Al-  * There was great variation, however, in
though current-account deficits have been re-  implementational success. Policy changes
duced, debt-service ratios, and especially debt-  were clearly implemented quite successfully in
export ratios, have increased. It is not  some areas (exchange-rate management, en-
possible, therefore, to conclude that the adjust-  ergy and agricultural pricing, financial-sector
ing countries are growing out of debt.    reforms, and budget/public-expenditure poli-
In addition, progress has slowed in nutrition,  cy). Changes in other areas (industrial policies,
infant mortality, life expectancy, and primary  tax reforms, and some aspects of public-enter-
school enrollments, giving rise to the proper  prise reforms), however, were slower or less
concern over the "social costs of adjustment."  successful.
Although there have been clear gainers pro-  * Performance in implementing conditional-
duced by adjustment programs-typically, ag-  ity did not vary sharply between groups of
ricultural producers and exporters-scattered  countries.
and anecdotal evidence suggests that their sta-  * Performance on adhering to key conditions
bilization components have often initially hurt  -those four or five program elements on
welfare, especially in low-income countries,  which governments and the Bank put particu-
generally, and sub-Saharan African countries,  lar emphasis because they are expected to
in particular.                            make a significant contribution to stabilization
Program Design and Implementation.  Gov-  or adjustment in the short run-was, on bal-
ernment programs supported by adjustment  ance, better than performance in adhering to
lending have tended to have three distinct  all conditions (68 percent as compared with 60
elements.                                 percent, respectively).
First, the programs have set out a number of  The review of adjustment lending also reit-
broad objectives to be achieved over the me-  erated findings from previous years-that ad-
dium term. These objectives have included  justment programs were better implemented in
targets for key macroeconomic variables (sav-  those cases in which governments "owned"
ings rates, current-account deficits. and aggre-  the program, and hence, were committed to
gate or sectoral growth rates, for instance) and  carrying it through. Thus, progress towards
for important sectoral variables (such as crop  adjustment was most marked in Asia and Latin
diversification and the development of export  America. the two regions in which governmen-
industries or domestic energy sources).   tal involvement in the design of programs was
Second, the programs have included a broad  the greatest.
set of measures to be introduced in the medium  Conversely, progress was weakest in sub-
term in support of those objectives, such as  Saharan Africa, where, although countries
increasing the scope of taxation or cost recov-  were in urgent need of resources, specific
ery, as well as improving incentives for exports  knowledge of what reforms were both desir-
or agricultural products.                 able and feasible was often poor. The report
Third, the programs have detailed a set of  notes, however, a growing consensus among
specific actions that the government planned to  these countries and the Bank about the essen-
undertake over twelve to eighteen months and  tial problems and specific remedies, and, as
that the Bank would monitor.              reported elsewhere in this Annual Report (page
To facilitate monitoring and to ensure that  106), nearly thirty sub-Saharan African coun-
progress is appropriate, adjustment loans gen-  tries are now implementing programs of struc-
erally have been tranched; disbursements of  tural adjustment, with encouraging signs of
remaining commitments (the second or third  progress.
tranche) depend on satisfactory compliance  Future Directions in Adjustment Lending.
with a number of key conditions and with the  Because of the continued need for physical and
implementation of the program in general.  human infrastructure in its developing member
According to the Bank's review, a detailed  countries, the Bank will continue to rely on
examination of the experience in implementing  projects for the majority of its development
conditionality in fifty-one adjustment loans in  lending. Adjustment lending remains a valu-
fifteen countries supports several generaliza-  able operational vehicle, however, and al-
tions:                                    though adjustment lending is a high-risk activ-
* About 60 percent of the conditions in  ity, risks can be reduced, rewards improved,
structural-adjustment loans  and  sectoral-  and effects strengthened.
adjustment loans were implemented fully, or  To this end, the review carried a number of
more than fully. That rate increased to more  recommendations to guide further lending for
than 80 percent if conditions on which progress  adjustment. Discussion of these by the execu-



80   World Bank Policies and Operations
tive board yielded five areas of general agree-  ways to lower the social costs of adjustment.
ment:                                     This will require both a better understanding of
On the importance of meeting prerequisites.  the effect of adjustment policies on the poor
Adjustment loans providing quickly disbursing  and on the design of programs and interven-
finance for general imports should be under-  tions to help the poor. Support for programs
taken only when three prerequisites are satis-  designed to ameliorate the social costs of ad-
factorily fulfilled: that, in addition to agree-  justment should be intensified.
ment on the specific actions that are conditions  On monitoring the macroeconomic frame-
for effectiveness or tranche release, there  work for sector-adjustment operations. The
should be an understanding with the govern-  reforms supported by structural-adjustment
ment on its overall structural-adjustment pro-  loans normally include specific measures that
gram; that governments "own" the program;  can be expected to contribute to reducing, over
and that the adjustment process be realis-  the medium term, the macroeconomic imbal-
tic-that is, sufficiently restrictive to be con-  ances that gave rise to the need for loans for
sistent with the available financing, but not so  balance-of-payments support.
restrictive as to prove socially and politically  This may not be the case for sectoral-adjust-
unacceptable and therefore unsustainable.  ment loans, however. Instead, they may focus
On the establishment of key conditions. In  on other important concerns-including rela-
formulating adjustment loans, there should be  tively longer-run efforts to improve economic
a continuation of the trend towards fewer  efficiency or the effectiveness of government
conditions that are so clearly defined there can  programs in the area concerned. To insist that
be little uncertainty about whether they have  all sectoral-adjustment loans should include
been fulfilled. These conditions should relate  policy conditions that contribute directly to
to policy changes and institutional changes that  medium-term reduction in the macroeconomic
are under the direct control of the borrower  imbalances would restrict the flexibility with
and not to performance targets. Economic  which adjustment lending is used and may lead
performance is what matters in the long run,  to a reduced focus in these operations on
but unexpected external factors can affect eco-  longer-term  sectoral issues. Nevertheless,
nomic performance. There are also lags, of  given the nature of financing, it is important, in
variable length, between the adoption of ad-  the context of a sectoral-adjustment loan, that
justment measures and their effects on perfor-  the Bank be satisfied as to the soundness of the
mance. However, in a series of adjustment  government's overall structural-adjustment
operations, the required policy actions under  program, including short-term stabilization, as
subsequent operations would inevitably be ad-  well as longer-term development objectives.
justed in the light of progress of economic  The current approach is to be monitored for a
performance.                              period of eighteen months, after which man-
On limits of adjustment lending. Whether  agement of the Bank will reassess its adequacy
IBRD or IDA financing is involved, adjustment  with respect to improving macroeconomic
with growth clearly requires a mix of balance-  management.
of-payments support and more traditional sec-  Looking to the Future. The Bank's evolving
tor and project financing. In view of the Bank's  structural-adjustment policy implies a some-
primary role as a development institution, the  what more selective approach to quick-dis-
predominant share of the Bank's lending port-  bursing adjustment lending. It should strength-
folio should continue to contain sector and  en confidence that an adequate macroeconom-
project financing. In order to provide assur-  ic program is being maintained by the review of
ance that the Bank is not pursuing an inappro-  recent developments at the time any adjust-
priate lending mix, an overall limit on adjust-  ment operation is presented to the executive
ment lending is desirable.                board, and also, when any later tranches are to
In the case of IBRD loans, the 25 percent  be released. It also calls for a closer application
overall limit for adjustment operations recom-  of the specific conditions associated with dis-
mended for portfolio-management purposes  bursement of adjustment financing.
should continue. In the case of IDA, the Bank  The increase in selectivity should provide
and donors, under the eighth replenishment of  greater assurance that quick-disbursing lending
IDA resources, agreed on an overall level of  for balance-of-payments support will comple-
lending of between 24 percent and 28 percent  ment, rather than substitute for, structural
for adjustment operations. The IDA limits will  reforms by the borrowing country. But, it
be reviewed during negotiations on IDA's  might slow down the pace of adjustment lend-
ninth replenishment.                      ing-at least initially. Developing a consensus
On dealing with the social costs of adjust-  on the appropriate strategy and working out a
ment. There is a need for greater emphasis on  program that a country genuinely owns may



Review of Adjustment Lending   81
Box 5-i. Adjustment and the Poor
litile is knosn albouI the o erall etfecit of  resIour ..C de"elopIlierit aCt - 'ie'  s ssell S io
adjustment programs on po%erts. T-o a large     oper,ition- and maintenance expenditure .and to
emnt. this is because it is difficult to distinnulih  incrcasing the etftcienc of existing programi.
the effe,ts of e\ternaIl  niidu,ed receision fromi  Some adju-tmrent programs hav-e addressed
the effects of the polies ind progrjms designed  these 'sue', and more nous concentrate on more
to offsel theni. Ne%eriheless. one clear le.son  el'ective largeting ol re;ources t.l the poor The
trom   experience %ith adjustment programis ha,s  ke% Iuestion Ish oss suih t.,rgeted programs Can
been ihat failure to adjusit I. ltkle t5 hun the poor  be fin.nced dunne a period of %% idespread cuts in
and thal an orderls adjustment process ti ndi,-  go%ernment espenditures  Since; dditional re
pensabit to improve Ihe long-term po'it'on of the  sourrc' iare unlikels to becomrre .,iil.ble. priorati
poor.                                           ,ocial and poserr% ptogrami mu,t be protected at
At the anme time. the poor mas he adversels   ihe eipense ot- alternatise,. Some emterntl Ii-
affected during the adjustment proce,s Broadly.  nancing trom multilateral and bilateral donor' Is
these adser,e effects may result irom increases in  otten available to upport such programs But it
unemplo%ment and reductions in "age rate, re-  is also es.ential to increase the efficienes of
sultng fronm changes in econom%sa%de incentive  strsice delder\ and to pursue measures. includ-
strucuJres or from  reductions in pubhl,-sector  Ing cosl reco' er\ from ihose %% ho can atford to
emplos menl and from cuts in public expenditures  paF. to raie additi,onal domestic resources
and consumer sub'idies trhe likelihood of such    Siuhbsid  reductions hate been controversial
I  effects must be kepL in mind sehen designing    Jnd hia:e sometime' prosoked sirong opposition .
adiu'tment progr.ms, and remedial actions must  In cabes %- here -ut-idies benefited the poor. the
be considered.                                  pkuoi hate 'ui(Lred considerable ha.idship %; l,en
Expenditure cuts hate a contraction.al effect  sub,idies hase been cut. In 'uch ba5ei, better
and man! public-seclor cmplo%ees and un,killed  targeting or suhstitution of aternratise more ef-
and semiskilled t%orkers insolved in infrastnrc-  ficient scheme'. is needtd  In Morocco. sub-i-
Lure or the prosision of public sersice are likelk  dies are being restructilred io J' to be applied
to become unemplosed or sutfer cuts in re.l     maint. Lo foods eaten hy the poor Thi- could
"ages. The tranintion to neu iohs mai he ilo%   gise the poor greater nutritional henefit, for one
and dit'ficult because ot constraints to labor mo-  tifth Lhe foirmer cost Nonetheless. proayres, in
hilits or because of mismatching skillS Such cuts  implemcraing ihese reform' ha' been slov. In
are ltkeh to exacerbate poveri,,. particularlh in  Mexico. the go%emnrinent. ith the help of t' 
urban .reas. Seseral compensatorn programs tire  Bank loansi is replacinc Its mirketsside subsidies
intended to addres' these issues. t'or e\jmple. by  b:. niore tareeted and chiraper altern.tives These
prosiding sc erance patmemnt or reir.tning 1o   aIterntise ichLmes include food coupons and
tho'e ss ho heconme unemplo\ed.                 mill distribution. tusidies on lo--income foods
Besord the direct and indirect elfect on em-  in 'elected areas. md s:hool-lunch programs
plov,meni and income. cut, in public expenditurc  The mo,t Common 5It ot .,ddressin the d-
mas slots inestmneni ind have a1 laJsing ad'ei 'e  \serse effects of adiu'imenr has been the imple-
etfeetott productive and stical infrastruiLure and  meniatotin ot complemnentars taigeied programs.
,er ices Such cuts nv:i hurt ihe poor becaa'c   of s-hich the best kno-s n esjniple !- Bols a,
the'e serNice' cai be An effecntie %.a\ to enh.nce  emergenes soial fund Such progranm represent
rh..r pruducti--it\ in the lo.ng run, the, can also  an aitrpacite ipttiri t,r ameliorating adver,e so.
act. as a saflet. liei. panrtUcl1arls in ihe pooresi  ci,t effecti because the'. can be elfetli\e in
cour.rie-. Rediuced ailoc,i,-on ftor recurrenL es-  reaching Ihe grour- the. are intended to rLach
penditure; ofien affect the social sector' mo-i  "h,le ihe adiusirent pFogrim is beng imple-
since recurrent 'utl%ts' a:ccount ftir nmos of the  menied. These programs hase compensated
spendin in these sector.                        those .itfecled h: adiuncmeer or haue prosided
Stnce expenditure Cuts malt b  unasotidable.  tempora:r  emplosmint or- reliet to the chront-
the ke. to redu,ing adserse social ctfeci s; fur  c.lls poor But the program' base often factd
governments to a' oid acro-the-board ieduc-    ,serious .hortiomings such as insufficient political
tions. Instead, as.ailable resources- should he al-  commitment. insniut,ional %kenkne-es. shOria,es
lc.aied  Lo  priorhit  investment and  human-   of tundiniz. and poorly trained taff.
also take time. Mobilizing the needed external     of the effects of the external economic envi-
financing, which is, in part, outside the control  ronment. Overoptimism     in either respect is
of the country and the Bank, may take more         likely to lead to subsequent disillusionment
time, as well.                                     with the adjustment process. The joint empha-
Other concerns are the need for greater          sis upon selectivity and realism should help the
realism  in the speed with which supply re-        Bank grasp new opportunities, reduce its port-
sponses can be expected and fuller recognition     folio risk, and strengthen its country relations



82   World Bank Policies and Operations
by further progress in the effort to support  While the Bank avoids financing relief oper-
structural adjustment and growth. Most impor-  ations, it does not ignore their importance or
tant, it should assist countries engaged in the  priority in the immediate aftermath of a natural
unavoidable task of adjustment for growth.  disaster. The Bank tries to work closely with
governments even in the early relief phase to
Bank Lending for Emergencies              ensure that longer-term development consider-
While discussing details of proposed emer-  ations are kept in view and that important
gency lending projects, the Bank's executive  development options are not foreclosed when
directors have suggested that it would be desir-  decisions have to be made hurriedly and with-
able to review more broadly the Bank's lending  out adequate information.
for emergencies. Thus, in fiscal 1989, a policy  A review of experience with emergency
paper was prepared that reviewed the Bank's  lending operations concentrated on the fifty-
experience with operations of this type, exam-  seven emergency loans and credits in forty
ined the factors that seemed to make for suc-  countries that were approved between fiscal
cess or problems, and presented the policies  1960 and fiscal 1988. The events that led to the
and criteria used for selecting and designing  emergencies were almost always major natural
such operations.                          disasters (cyclones, drought, earthquakes, and
Although the World Bank normally provides  floods), but also included war or civil distur-
advice and finance associated with the long-  bances in ten different countries. The review
term development plans of its developing mem-  did not lead to proposals for any major depar-
ber countries, since its earliest days it has also  tures from past practice, but it did provide an
provided financial and technical support in re-  opportunity to reinforce the lessons of experi-
sponse to major emergencies.              ence and refine the scope of future activities in
This support has characteristically been in  this area.
the form of reconstruction loans following nat-  The Bank, the review shows, has learned
ural or man-made disasters. Although the vol-  from experience. Thus, earlier emergency op-
ume of lending has been modest-$375 million  erations often experienced long implementa-
on the average over the five-year period, fiscal  tion delays as compared with their original
1985-89-emergency lending is more important  schedules. These delays are attributed to the
to the Bank as an institution than is reflected in  fact that the response to natural disasters was
the figures alone. First, reconstruction and re-  often in the form of a single-sector loan that
covery are at the heart of the Bank's original  attempted to compress most of the elements of
mandate. Second, lending for emergencies usu-  a regular operation into the accelerated time
ally comes in the wake of immense human   frame of an emergency loan. In recent years,
tragedy, which calls for an urgent response.  however, the design of emergency operations
And third, these operations test the Bank's  has been simplified and has become geared
ability to respond quickly and effectively to the  more specifically to the restoration of particu-
urgent needs of its members, and they challenge  lar facilities or services. In addition, there has
the Bank to find new solutions to problems of  been an evolution in the direction of multisec-
procedure and implementation.             tor time-slice reconstruction loans, in which,
The Bank's procedures for handling emer-  although the Bank agrees with the government
gency lending have evolved over the years. But  on an overall recovery program and on the
they have always been governed by two princi-  criteria that subprojects have to meet to be
ples: The Bank should finance productive activ-  eligible for Bank financing, the funds are not
ities and investment rather than relief and con-  allocated in advance to specific subprojects. In
sumption; and, it should focus on the areas of  this way, subprojects meeting previously
its own comparative advantage.            agreed-to criteria can proceed as they are
The first principle flows from the Bank's  ready, and disbursement delays can be mini-
Articles of Agreement. Avoidance of relief ac-  mized.
tivities is not merely a product of the Articles,  The review also pointed out the advantages
however; it is also a reflection of the second  of flexibility and a willingness to experiment.
principle. The Bank's natural perspective is on  Thus, for example, although it was acknowl-
medium-term and long-term development, and  edged that emergency loans in response to
its approaches to information, analysis, and  droughts in the mid 1970s were not generally
administration of lending operations all reflect  successful, the Bank, nevertheless, made two
this outlook. A division of labor has developed  emergency loans in response to the 1984
between the Bank and official agencies and  drought in East Africa. These loans, however,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that  were designed specifically to deal with the
have the specialized skills and experience to  short-term restoration of production by financ-
deal effectively with relief activities.  ing inputs of agricultural chemicals, machin-



Bank Lending for Emergencies  83
ery, fertilizer, and transport equipment, and so  ment problems. The effects of an emergency
did not repeat the earlier mistake of trying to  should be significant, and the event triggering
solve long-term agricultural development prob-  the emergency should be so infrequent that the
lems in a short-term framework.              consequences, while severe, can be regarded
The review also revealed that, generally,  as a temporary dislocation. The need for an
experience with emergency operations closely  urgent response must be evident. Emergency
reflected that of regular operations in corre-  lending should be limited to cases in which
sponding sectors and countries. Thus, the pre-  effective action can be felt in the short and
viously mentioned drought-emergency opera-   medium term (two to three years). And finally,
tions in the 1970s, all of which were in     there must be some prospect for future reduc-
sub-Saharan Africa, were characterized by im-  tion of hazard; although an emergency opera-
plementational problems (as were normal      tion may not be the only or best vehicle for
Bank-assisted  agricultural projects in the  preventing a recurrence of the cause of the
region), while emergency operations that dealt  emergency, it is usually a good place to start.
with a well-defined technical activity in one  The design of emergency operations. The
sector (such as the project that restored Ecua-  criteria determining when emergency opera-
dorian oil production and exports that had   tions are warranted play an important role in
been stopped by the earthquake-caused rup-   guiding their design. However, there are four
ture of the Ecuadorian oil pipeline in March  other important considerations affecting the
1987) enjoyed high rates of success, just as  design process:
regular operations of a similar nature do.     * The possibility of a reallocation of pro-
Finally, the review pointed to six features  ceeds under existing loans for related purposes
that seemed to recur in the more successful  is always considered as the Bank's initial ap-
examples of emergency operations:            proach (as this can be done more expeditiously
* Strong government commitment, often at   than processing a new operation).
the highest levels, helps overcome bureau-     * If a new operation must be designed, func-
cratic tangles and ensures that decisions are  tioning and familiar institutional capacities
made promptly.                               should be made full use of, and the operation
* Involvement by Bank staff at the early   itself should be made as simple as possible.
post-disaster stage is highly desirable.       * Flexibility in regard to policy conditional-
* The existence of a comprehensive program  ity is essential; emergency lending operations
that provides a framework for the whole recov-  are not intended to address long-term eco-
ery effort facilitates planning and the coordina-  nomic problems requiring major policy adjust-
tion of donor assistance and provides a long-  ment, but, if warranted, conditionality should
term perspective for decisionmaking.         focus primarily on issues directly linked to the
* Successful operations have limited objec-  cause of the emergency, where a change is
tives and realistic time frames for attaining  likely to reduce the probability of a recurrence.
them.                                        More generally, the Bank takes into account
* Problems are solved and decisions made   the effect of an emergency on a government's
quickly when there is a strong prior relation-  macroeconomic program and performance.
ship between the Bank and the agencies con-    * Although most emergency operations fi-
cerned.                                      nance specific capital investments or interme-
* Because emergencies cause dislocations,  diate imports, such as agricultural inputs or
simple implementation and institutional ar-  transport equipment, the need for flexibility
rangements are important.                    demands that the Bank occasionally permit the
Looking to the future, the policy paper fo-  importation of a broad range of urgently
cused on three major policy areas: criteria for  needed imported supplies in response to an
proceeding with emergency loans, aspects of  emergency (as, for example, following a war or
their design, and questions relating to mitigat-  civil disturbance). To maintain the distinction
ing the effect of emergencies.4              between lending for structural or sectoral ad-
Determining when emergency operations     justment and emergency lending, the latter will
are warranted. In considering proposals for  finance only a "positive list" of imports iden-
emergency lending, the Bank now applies five
broad criteria: An operation must be directed
at restoring assets or productivity in a long-  Discussion of a fourth aspect of policy, dealing with
term development perspective-not at relief.   internal processing and administration of emergency lend-
Prospective economic returns should be high;  ing operations, has been omitted here. It deals with the
if they are not, there is reason to question  need for accelerated processing procedures, the provision
of finance for the recurrent costs of implementation assis-
whether the operation is really focused on the  tance, and the extent of flexibility desired in providing
emergency rather than on long-term develop-   retroactive financing.



84   World Bank Policies and Operations
tified as critical to a well-defined recovery  ca-while stating that economic growth is es-
program.                                  sential, also conclude that long-term aggregate
Mitigating the effects offuture emergencies.  growth alone is not sufficient (since the poor
Experience has demonstrated that disaster-mit-  do not possess the physical and human assets
igation components of emergency operations  needed to take advantage of growth) and that it
have not been uniformly successful and that the  must be supplemented by additional efforts to
best vehicle for these components is often reg-  ensure access to food by those at greatest risk
ular lending operations, which not only share  from food insecurity, through increases in pro-
the same long-term horizon but also benefit  duction and real household incomes, to facili-
from more careful planning and preparation.  tate productive employment for the growing
This does not mean that emergency-lending  numbers of the poor, to endow them with more
operations should exclude mitigation compo-  physical and human assets, to improve their
nents; it means, rather, that these components  access to basic social services, and to better
should become more prominent in a wide range  target funds for those most in need.
of Bank operations in countries prone to natu-  The reports of the two task forces also
ral disasters.                            underline that these additional efforts need not
In these countries, risks are to be assessed  involve a trade-off with efficiency because the
and analyzed explicitly in the context of na-  scope for improving the productivity of the
tional planning and investment-program  re-  poor is very broad.
views. In their dialogue with government offi-  The Bankwide task force on poverty allevi-
cials in disaster-prone countries, Bank staff are  ation was formed in fiscal 1988 under the
to point out the need to allocate resources in  chairmanship of the regional vice president for
anticipation of disaster, as well as the cost-  Asia. Its mandate was to define a program of
effectiveness of appropriate emergency pre-  action for the Bank over the next five years
paredness and hazard-reduction measures.  that could help eliminate the worst forms of
In addition, ties are to be built with other  poverty in developing member countries by the
international organizations involved in emer-  year 2000.
gency relief and recovery activities, as well as  The task force on food security in Africa,
with those NGOs that work within the broad  chaired by the regional vice president for Af-
framework of a borrowing government's poli-  rica, and also established in fiscal 1988, had a
cies, so that collaboration in the field, where  mandate to develop improved approaches to
necessary, can be effective; the Bank stands  meet the goal of food security by the end of the
ready to help governments gain access to new  century.
developments in hazard-reduction technolo-  Although the two task force reports could be
gies and standards; in designing regular invest-  read and analyzed separately, the recom-
ment projects and sector loans in disaster-  mended approaches and actions were mutually
prone countries, due attention will be given to  consistent and complementary: The task force
early-warning systems and other elements of  on poverty alleviation approached the issue
emergency preparedness through financial or  globally and comprehensively, while the food
technical assistance; and emergency opera-  security task force narrowed its attention to a
tions will continue to incorporate mitigation  critical regional dimension of poverty.
components, with the knowledge that they    Issues in Poverty Alleviation. In reviewing
must be given special attention by Bank staff  the relationship between economic growth and
during implementation.                    poverty alleviation, the task force achieved a
consensus on several basic premises.
*     *     *                  * Over the long haul, economic growth is the
major factor in the reduction of mass poverty.
The report on lending by the Bank for emer-  The incidence of poverty goes down, there-
gencies was discussed by the executive direc-  fore, in those economies experiencing sus-
tors, who generally endorsed its findings and  tained periods of increased efficiency in re-
recommendations.                          source use and aggregate growth.
* Conversely, the incidence of poverty in-
Reducing Poverty and Food Insecurity      creases in stagnating or declining economies.
Studies emanating from two World Bank     * Long-term aggregate growth, while neces-
task forces have concluded that per capita  sary, is not, however, sufficient for the allevi-
economic growth is the sine qua non of suc-  ation of absolute poverty at the desired speed.
cessful efforts to reduce poverty and food  Benefits of national growth do not always
insecurity.                               accrue to those who are below the poverty
But both studies-one on poverty allevia-  line. In many instances, the poor do not pos-
tion, the other on food security in Afri-  sess the physical and human assets needed to



Reducing Poverly and Food Insecurily  85
take advantage of growth, and growth may not  gests that the urban poor bear a disproportion-
provide adequate expansion of employment for  ate share of adjustment costs.
the unskilled.                                The report did not set out detailed country
* This helps explain why the number of    strategies and medium-term poverty lending
people living in absolute poverty has increased  strategies, as they would likely emerge coun-
in low-income countries even while respect-  try-by-country only over time and in the con-
able growth rates have been achieved over the  text of the Bank's dialogue with governments.
past three decades. Similarly, in many middle-  In most cases, projects that have as their
income countries, sizeable pockets of poverty  primary and direct objective the reduction of
persist side by side with relative affluence and  poverty would be evaluated according either to
vigorous growth.                            cost-effectiveness (least cost) considerations
The task force concluded, therefore, that  (in education and population and health) or
growth policies must be supplemented by     economic rates of return calculations (as in
clearly defined poverty-alleviation efforts and  agriculture).
noted that evidence pointed to the economic  Issues in Food Security. Food insecurity is a
feasibility of such an approach. Because areas  problem throughout Africa: About a quarter of
of complementarity between the twin objec-  the population-more than 100 million peo-
tives of efficient economic growth and the  ple-do not eat enough for an active working
alleviation of poverty exceed those areas in-  life (see Figure 5-1). Food insecurity is a prob-
volving serious trade-offs, pursuit of both ob-  lem in both adjusting, as well as in nonadjust-
jectives is essential to lasting and stable devel-  ing countries, in low-income food-deficit coun-
opment.                                     tries and in the middle-income countries that
The task force report noted that an effective  are self-sufficient in food, in the drought-prone
antipoverty effort also needed to emphasize  and the drought-free countries, and in coun-
the role of policies and institutions, including  tries with generally sound economic growth
the reallocation of public resources for social  policies.
services, to complement the more traditional  The problem is serious and deteriorating. In
investment-oriented interventions. Such an ap-  the 1970s, the proportion of Africans with
proach, launched on a sectoral rather than a  deficient diets increased by far less than the
project-by-project basis and with due regard  rate of population increase. In the 1980s, how-
for sustainability, should be feasible and effec-  ever, both the proportion and the total number
tive for poverty alleviation in agriculture,  of Africans with deficient diets are believed to
health, nutrition, family planning, education,  have climbed.
and urban development.                        Part of the report of the task force on food
Improving the access of the poor to social  security in Africa dealt with the aspect of
services is another major area in which an  hunger that attracts most media attention
effective and focused sector-policy effort can  -transitory food insecurity, which occurs
be made and antipoverty strategies imple-   when households are faced with a temporary
mented, the study added. Services, such as  inability to acquire food as a result of sporadic
health and family planning, have important  misfortunes such as drought or civil strife; but
short-term and long-term roles to play in pov-  the report also addressed the more deep-rooted
erty-alleviation efforts. Significant improve-  and larger problem of chronic food insecurity,
ments can be made in orienting social services  which exists when households suffer from a
towards poorer households, in making these  persistent inability to acquire enough food to
services more relevant to the needs of the  eat.5
poor, and in raising the efficiency of delivery  Assuring African food security, the task
systems.                                    force report noted, entails meeting two condi-
The task force report also called for an  tions: first, food must be available, and sec-
increased  effort in protecting  vulnerable  ond, households must have the ability to ac-
groups during implementation of adjustment  quire it. While much attention has been given
policies. During initial efforts to correct inter-  to the food-availability dimension, the report
nal and external imbalances, output, along  concluded that effective action to combat both
with employment and consumption, may be     chronic and transitory food insecurity must
depressed. Reallocation of fiscal resources be-  focus also on the root cause of food insecurity:
tween sectors and activities may benefit some  insufficient real income of households either to
groups (such as farmers) while penalizing oth-  grow or buy food.
ers (such as urban wage earners). In most
developing countries, poverty groups tend to
be the least protected by the social safety nets,  Worid Bank. The Challenge of Hunger in Africa: A Call to
and experience obtained so far strongly sug-  Action (Washington, D.C., 1989).



86     World Bank Policies and Operations
Figure 5-1. Number of Food Insecure in sub-Saharan Africa
F.r r, il u30 ,:.
if- l  :-                                                                a--  r It  iir      5 r.i~ f.. ,   :uF
,*' ,irlrIe *'ir-, 11 I rr,iIicr, &r n;,-re lo):-t ir,|r..erurp
Ni.ler3                                                                   13_                17
Ki.ir.rr  .: ?,'i!r' : rrici,n or  nlr.e  l.- i
Thr,?3ri                                     I-
,i.)-ir,.-1:r                          I                  tj                  1
ir r 3f~l ri-.,                                                             F 2     
ri!t, lr1-  ir  11  JTrIIIr:ri  1:71  riB &,C
St,.:S;n    |                                         . J             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.-.
,l,ill ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   ____________________ -
lii C2i'-r
EL.r I-n3 F-.3 _C                                                           -,'1 
J  -r  I1-:                  |-1                                               ,    
wvIr',a                                         _4                                            , 
T,|r,,ls _.imbu                             Fj1 2                                              C
Er i,Jrili-                                                                  1.1lr, l-!el tt- jri 1 Ir,l,, ,rl t,-.D rl e   Eirr
cr;       ir re A'i-r Tri3ri 1 nih r  .t  r  r ri r _nr          r p         r                9
3 Lez-cr.                                                                 *~.s              23
r,;r 3lll:1 .:IrI,. 3r, Fel:l LI,,:                                         1)'_
i ten in -~ r                                                               z r'. i1i
L. 311r3lJI,                       S                                          F Ir,r_ rr, ir-,  I _  A 
1 ij,rI.3r                                                                  : g1               9
3   .; -,r i'* .-rl 'r.1 - '1-lire :1 ref ,- 3;t ((.41 (|r-ijrr.Ii.,il * 1'3fl1J -"lrrT;eB .BCij-u(r.B  ;  E ..3i ri,r3r
_:'1  .n-- ..~   -  ,r.e-L--,..,,  L.-- :.r,.:. :3 i~. T. i.Il-  11-3.  F ' -:ie  -Be ., r,eii   -:. S-;, g.3 ' .1,.  _rdY,;3r.1



Reducing Poverty and Food Insecurity  87
The study stated that although ongoing ef-  groundwork was laid for coping with emergen-
forts to promote per capita income growth  cies and preventing famine. In addition, the
comprise an essential element of a sound food-  report recommended that the Bank make a
security strategy, they should be accompanied  systematic effort to identify, prepare, and lend
by: the introduction of new elements to iden-  for growth-oriented projects benefiting under-
tify the groups at high risk of food insecurity  nourished people, as well as for cost-effective
and to develop action plans to deal with food  interventions  (growth-promoting  programs
insecurity; provision of more real external re-  that especially benefit the undernourished,
sources to finance programs for the food inse-  subsidy schemes for production or consump-
cure; improvements in the capabilities of Afri-  tion to improve food security, and policy ac-
can governments and donors to respond to  tions aimed at relieving key constraints to
emergencies; the development of policies and  achieving food security, for instance); and as-
programs to stabilize national incomes and  sist African governments build the institutional
prices; and the strengthening of institutional  capacity to handle food-security issues.
capabilities to deal with food-insecurity prob-  3. The study urged the Bank to take steps to
lems.                                     mobilize an effective partnership of all con-
The report cautioned, however, that there  cerned donors so as to minimize duplication of
are no quick fixes, simple short cuts, and easy  effort, increase staff expertise, and mobilize
answers that can make the problem go away,  additional funds. The task force suggested that
and added that only large-scale action, pursued  the main focus of collaboration should be at the
over many years with adequate resources and  individual country level and that the Bank
skilled personnel, could alleviate the problem.  work to enhance its catalytic role in bringing
In response to the challenge, the task force  together governments and NGOs to work to
recommended that the Bank take action in four  meet common food-security objectives.
areas, the implementation of which could make  4. A final set of actions was identified that
a significant contribution toward resolving the  involves applied research. These actions
problem of food insecurity.               would include: the carrying out, in collabora-
1. The Bank should build the foundation for  tion with the World Food Programme, an over-
long-term food security through a more vigor-  all review of African food aid with a view to
ous application of ongoing approaches to  developing recommendations for enhancing its
growth and adjustment.                    effectiveness and efficiency; exploring ways to
Thus, for example, the Bank could increase  provide catalytic assistance to the Food and
its efforts to enhance agricultural production  Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO).
through an operational emphasis on farmers at  which is heading up efforts to accelerate the
risk of food insecurity-especially low-income  pace of enhanced collaboration in early-
smallholders and women farmers; examine, in  warning systems for droughts; finding ways to
the context of its adjustment operations, food-  accelerate women farmers' integration into the
security implications and take advantage of  development process; and encouraging re-
ways to protect and help the undernourished;  gional integration, with a view to finding prac-
give special attention to programs in support of  tical ways of enhancing food security.
family planning, health, and nutrition; conduct
reviews of public investment and expenditure           8     *     *
programs (to ensure that they fund growth-
oriented projects that can help undernourished  In summarizing the executive board's dis-
people) and of targeted subsidy schemes that  cussion of the two task force reports, the
support the food insecure; and give increasing  chairman noted that its obvious interest reaf-
attention to incorporating environmental con-  firmed that poverty alleviation was a funda-
cerns into development policy and programs.  mental objective of the Bank and that a more
2. The Bank should pursue a new set of  focused and concerted action appropriately
country-specific actions to form a more inten-  could be undertaken on a country-by-country
sive, organized, and systematic approach to  basis to reduce poverty. The directors, he
the problem of hunger in Africa.          continued, expressed broad support for inten-
Thus, for example, the Bank would begin  sifying the Bank's role in both poverty allevi-
preparation of food-security action programs  ation and food security.
in at least six countries, with the intention of  There was broad agreement that economic
covering, in five years' time, one third of  growth, while necessary, was not sufficient to
African countries and the bulk of Africa's  resolve the poverty problem. It was agreed
food-insecure population; in countries where  that growth must be supplemented by addi-
transitory food insecurity was a problem, these  tional efforts to ensure that development
programs could be designed to ensure that a  reaches the poor. Such efforts need not involve



88   World Bank Policies and Operations
trade-offs with efficiency standards, and the  sis: debt and adjustment, financial intermedia-
need for sustainability was stressed.       tion, food security and poverty alleviation,
There was also general support for the Bank  environment, human resources and the role of
to draw on its considerable experience to de-  women in development, private-sector devel-
velop specific antipoverty programs. Directors  opment, and public-sector management. Re-
stressed the importance of governmental com-  search on these areas of special emphasis now
mitment; the need for a country-specific ap-  accounts for two thirds of total resources de-
proach; the need for sectoral approaches, es-  voted by PPR to its research program. In
pecially in agriculture and social services, to  parallel with ongoing work, research initiatives
ensure that the poor were being reached; in-  or plans are being developed in each of these
creased participation of the poorest of the  priority areas, concentrating on the most im-
poor; use of selected but carefully targeted  portant issues that need to be addressed in the
subsidies; and the need to review the method-  context of the Bank's operational and policy
ology used in evaluating the efficiency of  work.
projects that aimed at reaching the poor.     Current work on debt issues is looking at the
There was also full agreement that economic  interwar record on external debt and default in
growth in Africa depended both on a healthy  order to assess its relevance to current prob-
agriculture sector and continued structural re-  lems and policy issues. Work is also ongoing
form. There was to be no stepping back from  on the debt problems of middle-income sub-
the Bank's commitment to increase agricul-  Saharan African countries that fall outside the
tural production in Africa, nor did the Bank  Bank's special program of assistance (SPA).
intend to relax its support for structural adjust-  Investigation of the external financing needs of
ment.                                      low-income African countries in the 1990s after
The chairman reported that the Bank would  the expiration of the SPA has begun and will
proceed with the implementation of the recom-  continue in fiscal 1990. So, too, will work on
mendations of the food security report and  the determinants of foreign direct investment
with the intensification of work on poverty,  flows designed to assess the possible expanded
and that the executive board would be in-   use of these forms of finance as alternatives to
formed of any progress made in both activities  debt finance. Five additional areas of research
and consulted on key issues.6               will be emphasized: commercial-bank behavior
and constraints in international lending, the
The Research Program                        relationship between debt and growth, the re-
During fiscal 1989, the Bank devoted 105  lationship between external-debt difficulties
staff years to research and allocated $4.9 mil-  and internal financial and banking crisis, fiscal
lion to the central research support budget.  aspects of the debt crisis, and continued anal-
This budget, administered by the Research   ysis of market-based strategies for resolving
Committee, allows researchers from all parts  the crisis.
of the Bank to compete for funds to finance   Research aimed at developing a better un-
consultants, travel, and computing expenses  derstanding of the process of adjustment forms
related to their research. The process of allo-  an important part of the Bank's research
cating these funds through a central screening  agenda. A major initiative in this area is the
of research proposals is the most important  development of macroeconomic models that
mechanism for ensuring both the institutional  incorporate key interactions among macroeco-
relevance and technical quality of the Bank's  nomic variables that are affected by adjust-
research. The centrally funded research port-  ment packages. Other related studies deal with
folio consisted of 130 projects, including thirty  the political economy of adjustment, the role
projects completed during the year and sixty  and functioning of labor and financial markets
new starts. Research is mainly conducted in  in the adjustment process, the effects of eco-
the policy, planning, and research (PPR) com-  nomic policies on domestic savings, and mac-
plex, but research is a significant part of the  roeconomic adjustment issues of special rele-
work program in the operations and finance  vance to Africa. Stabilization programs also
complexes.                                 figure high in the research agenda. While les-
Institutional priorities set the tone and direc-  sons are being drawn from Latin America's
tion for Bank research, but specific research  experience with stopping high inflation, a new
agendas or topics are the product of exchange  study will examine issues of inflation and sta-
among research and operational staff at all  bilization in Africa. Another study will trace
working levels. Thus, the past year witnessed a  the macroeconomic aspects of public-sector
substantial redeployment of research  re-
sources toward the priority areas identified by  6 Details of the Bank's operational focus on poverty reduc-
Bank management as requiring special empha-  tion during the year are found on page 38.



The Research Program  89
deficits. Studies are also under way on various  the supply-response effects resulting from re-
aspects of adjustment-related reforms (trade,  moval of barriers to women's access to factors
public-sector finances, the financial sector,  of production such as information and credit;
and public enterprises, for example). Some will  the contribution of education, training, and
focus on issues of sustainability and sequenc-  health and family-planning services to wom-
ing of the reforms.                       en's productivity; and the influence of eco-
Several studies are under way that relate to  nomic policy on women's incentive to work. A
private-sector development and the role of the  new and major research project is specifically
private sector in the adjustment process. They  focused on women's access to, and use of,
deal with issues of macroeconomic adjustment  public services.
and private investment, financial policy and  In the area of environment, topics under
private investment, and private provision of  study are: deforestation and desertification,
public services. Other areas of concentration  pesticide management, irrigation and salinity,
will include: the pace and sequencing of pri-  watershed rehabilitation, and protection of bio-
vate-sector development in structural-adjust-  diversity. An attempt is also being made to
ment programs, issues of regulatory reforms  undertake a comparative analysis of air pollu-
and the promotion of competitive markets as  tion. The groundwork for a policy and research
substitutes for more directed economic inter-  work program, covering both technical/scien-
ventions, entrepreneurial development in  tific and economic/behavioral issues has been
least-developed countries, and privatization.  prepared. Economic issues likely to receive
On public-sector management, research is  priority in research are the relationship be-
aimed at finding ways to improve the efficiency  tween environment and economic growth and
of resources in public-services sectors and to  poverty, the costs of economic degradation,
reform the civil service, public employment  and integration of environmental concerns in
and pay, as well as municipal finances and  adjustment lending.
taxation.                                   While these studies and themes form the
On poverty-related issues, an increasing  core of the Bank's research program in the
number of studies are examining the social  areas of special emphasis, there is much
effects of adjustment. In particular, these stud-  research in other areas, ranging from the inter-
ies are looking for targeted policies that are  national economic environment, financial in-
both affordable and can mitigate the negative  termediation, and public economies, to land-
effects on the poor. Poverty reduction is also  rights systems, education and vocational
directly or indirectly addressed in other sector-  training, energy use, and urban and transport
specific research, notably research aimed at  development. An emerging area of new re-
raising agricultural productivity on a sustain-  search concerns the implications of an uncer-
able basis, facilitating structural change in ru-  tain future for the analysis of risk and the
ral economies, and designing effective pro-  development of risk-management instruments.
grams for the alleviation of rural poverty and  Another important area of new research is
food insecurity. Many poverty-related re-  technology change and diffusion, and the rela-
search issues cut across several departments'  tionship between technology and human re-
concerns (for example, user fees are relevant  sources as it affects the development process.
for health and education and also for water  The Bank held the first of what is hoped to
supply, electricity, and public transportation;  be an annual series of conferences on develop-
the effects on the poor of contractions in the  ment economics at the end of April 1989 in
formal market have implications for schooling  Washington, D.C. The aim of the conferences
and employment). Raising the welfare and liv-  is to bring together Bank staff, development
ing conditions of the poor is also the motiva-  researchers, practitioners, and policy advisors
tion for several studies under way or planned  from around the world to focus on important
on the effectiveness of family-planning and  issues confronting development economics to-
nutrition programs, the causes and conse-  day.
quences of morbidity, and the specific contri-  The conferences are also intended to signal
bution of women to household welfare and to  to the academic and policy communities in the
poverty reduction.                        Bank's member countries that the Bank is
Women's   economic   productivity  has  willing to listen carefully to them in its attempt
emerged as a key area for research. A recent  to find innovative solutions to the conceptual
review of evidence shows that improving wom-  and practical problems that its staff and its
en's economic opportunities can achieve gains  member countries face in working on develop-
not only for women but also for their families  ment issues. About fifty outside researchers,
and for national and regional economies. Fur-  more than three dozen from developing coun-
ther research will concentrate on the following:  tries, attended the conference. Over 400 Bank



90   World Bank Policies and Operations
staff from all the Bank complexes attended at  Economic Development Institute
some point during the two-day conference.
Six major papers were discussed at the con-  Fiscal year 1989 marked the final year of the
ference. They dealt with the Uruguay Round of  five-year plan prepared by the Economic De-
multilateral trade negotiations, savings behav-  velopment Institute (EDI) in 1984. A review of
ior in developing countries, social-sector  the experience over the five-year period points
(mainly health and education) pricing policy,  to satisfactory progress in fulfilling the plan's
the role of institutions in development, the  objectives: giving emphasis more to develop-
policy implications of the new strategic trade  ment-policy decisions than to individual in-
theories, and agricultural supply response and  vestments; concentrating more heavily on the
public policy. The conference began with a  institutionally weaker countries, especially in
keynote address by Manmohan Singh, the sec-  sub-Saharan Africa; and increasing support for
retary-general of the Geneva-based South   developing countries' own training institu-
Commission, and ended with a roundtable dis-  tions.
cussion by development experts on the major  Table 5-1 shows the changes in the number
issues in development.                     and pattern of EDI teaching and institutional-
The Bank is launching a visiting research  assistance activities between fiscal 1984 (the
fellow program to draw some of the best de-  year before the plan was launched) and fiscal
velopment research scholars worldwide into  1989. Apart from the expansion in the number
the Bank's research activities. The program,  of activities, especially in assistance to partner
funded by the Research Committee through   training institutions, there was a marked shift
the research support budget, is managed in the  in favor of policy-related training in the form of
research administrator's office. The program  senior policy seminars (three- to five-day
has two objectives: first, to broaden and  events for top-level government officials) and
deepen the Bank's existing and future research  of macroeconomic and sector-management
base; and second, to enhance scholarly under-  seminars (one- to four-week events for senior
standing of the Bank's research activities, its  officials in economic and sector ministries).
operational and policy work, and the chal-  There was also a shift in favor of training-
lenges it faces. Visiting research fellows may  of-trainers seminars. In contrast, there was a
be based in one or more units in the Bank in  sharp decline in the number of training events
Washington, D.C. during their fellowship   in project analysis and management, a field of
term.                                      training increasingly provided by other institu-
The Bank disseminates its research results  tions, some assisted by EDI.
widely, within, as well as outside, the Bank.  The table also compares, on an annual aver-
University press books remain a major dissem-  age basis, the programs planned and the actual
ination avenue for the Bank's research ouput.  outcome. In every category of activity, the
The Bank's journals. The World Bank Eco-   planned program was either met or exceeded.
nomic Review and The World Bank Research   A separate calculation shows that the plan
Observer, as well as the widely circulated  objective of concentrating more heavily on
Finance and Development, published jointly  sub-Saharan Africa and other institutionally
by the Bank and the International Monetary  weaker countries was also attained. The EDI
Fund, spread the results of Bank research  focused 30 percent of its training and assis-
throughout the world, as does the quarterly  tance activities on sub-Saharan Africa in fiscal
newsletter, Research News. Free distribution  1984 compared with 44 percent in fiscal 1989.
of journals in developing countries aims at  The EDI's work program in fiscal 1989 was
getting research results-and, in particular,  strongly oriented towards structural-adjust-
results of work funded by the Bank-to librar-  ment policy and implementation issues at the
ies, researchers, students, and policymakers  macroeconomic and sectoral levels.
with limited access to professional journals.  At the macroeconomic level, particular at-
This past year, PPR launched two new publi-  tention was given to the persisting external-
cations series aimed primarily at disseminating  debt problem and on the social costs of adjust-
results of its research to operations staff of the  ment. Also, a pilot seminar to train trainers
Bank. The PPR Working Paper Series dissem-  from EDI's partner institutions throughout the
inates the findings of work under way; one of  world in the design and delivery of national
its objectives is to get these findings published  economic-management courses and seminars
quickly, even if presentations are less than  was held in Washington, D.C., in March 1989.
fully polished. The PPR Policy and Research  At the sectoral level, increased attention was
Series highlights the findings and implications  given to issues in the financial sector, health,
of broad programs of research in a form that is  natural-resource management, and public-ex-
accessible and useful to operations staff.  penditure planning. In recognition of the in-



Economic Development Institute  91
Table 5-1. EDl Teaching and Inslitutional .%ssislance. Fiscal Nears 19841 and 1989:
Annual Azerages. Fiscal Years 1985-89
I,..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,.i.
IfU         pl ,i,1
Senior plh'k                                      It            1-"
Exonomnm  ;and e i,-,r ni.tri:eenri  1 -          3t 31
Pyoiien  .nal  .i and ni.ina rmenl  .'I           Is            7t
Tr;,ining  rA tr.ainer,              I 1                        2i1
Salhiordl                          72           SI4           qh 
,tillr,.,,d,l! d.1i, ,1.
Pvdapopical                          1 4                        3A            44
'Rther'                             n :_                        4",           ; 
Suho. jl                          I             3 .I
TOi.I                              Sh            142          I
n.a. tNoil.|  ible
.1   lndis lte, Ihu n11Mh,r of inl' uiUI% 1 Ic,IL  oI.u .  v.n< n n,,ot lm  dn,i  ,1 1r p,i rl,l ,  ,r, o-ek-pr,.:mirt
pr.o id.I
creased importance attached to financial-  level. Community participation, project man-
sector reforms as part of the adjustment    agement, and sustainability were the foci of a
process, EDI focused its work on financial-  seminar held in Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia, in
systems evaluation, innovative instruments in  July 1988. Private and public officials from five
foreign financing, and the prospects of capital-  Asian countries gathered to assess the poten-
market development in developing countries.  tial contribution of community participation in
These efforts yielded highly valuable written  implementing  and sustaining  development
materials for training purposes. as well as for  projects, as well as to learn about the compar-
wide public distribution.                   ative advantage provided by nongovernmental
A number of training and institutional-devel-  organizations (NGOs) in fostering community
opment activities undertaken by EDI in fiscal  participation.
1989 are worthy of note.                      As part of EDI's work program in China, a
Decentralization of public-sector authority is  two-phased case-development workshop was
increasingly being accepted as an instrument  held, in partnership with Tsinghua University
for improving public-administration efficiency.  (Beijing). In September 1988, a week was spent
To explore the relevant issues and policy op-  discussing and demonstrating the use of case
tions surrounding decentralization, three train-  materials of different types and providing train-
ing events were organized. Two workshops on  ing in their preparation and writing. Thereaf-
strengthening local government in sub-Saharan  ter, the participants returned to their institu-
Africa were held near Bologna, Italy, in March  tions to prepare their case studies on the
1989. The World Bank's Africa technical de-  implementation of China's economic reform.
partment, the Italian government, the Emilia  In March 1989. a week was devoted to prac-
Romagna region, and the Italo-Africano Insti-  ticing the teaching of these cases; the practice
tute collaborated in carrying out the work-  was interspersed with lectures on case use and
shops, which were attended by senior govern-  development. The EDI expects to publish six-
ment officials, mayors, and local-authority  teen of the case studies in Chinese and about
managers from  Africa. The third event, a   half that number in English.
roundtable on decentralization policies and so-  As part of its program emphasis on environ-
cioeconomic development in sub-Saharan Af-  mental issues, EDI organized seminars on so-
rica, was held in Douala, Cameroon, in June  cial forestry, land access, and water resources.
1989. The objective was to examine actual and  At a senior policy seminar in Zimbabwe in
potential contributions of decentralization pol-  March 1989. senior foresters and NGO repre-
icies to economic development.              sentatives looked at ways to manage forest
Closely related to questions of decentraliza-  resources at the local level. At another senior
tion is the role of the private sector at the local  policy seminar in Bali in October 1988, held in



92   World Bank Policies and Operations
collaboration with the Royal Tropical Institute  on women in development were included in the
of the Netherlands and the Centre on Integrated  curricula of several courses, notably one on
Rural Development for Asia and the Pacific,  macroeconomic analysis for structural adjust-
participants discussed several major issues, in-  ment, held in Harare, Zimbabwe, in May 1989.
cluding database surveys and management,  The EDI is also managing a pilot project to
land-tenure systems and their effect on rural  strengthen the capacity of selected African
poverty, and encouragement of land-use plan-  institutions to train trainers and extension
ning to avoid environmental degradation.  agents, who, in turn, will help African women
A third seminar, on water resources and  establish and manage small-scale enterprises.
water-quality management, was held in Am-   An important vehicle for delivering EDI
man, Jordan, for countries of the Middle East  activities is the partnership it has established
and Africa. Cosponsored by the World Health  with many regional and national management-
Organization (WHO), it addressed the environ-  training institutions in developing countries.
mental and health issues involved in the plan-  The EDI cooperates regularly with forty-five
ning and management of water resources.   partners, of which twenty-eight are regional
A major seminar on ecosystem management  institutions or associations (the remainder are
was held in Turrialba, Costa Rica, with the  national). The EDI helps partner institutions
Tropical Agricultural Research and Training  with pedagogical assistance, including advice
Center and with financial support from Japan.  on the design and delivery of seminars; staff
The seminar evaluated policies and practices  development; training materials; advice on ef-
related to the management and conservation of  ficient management; enhancement of their con-
natural resources consistent with long-term  sulting capacity; and mobilization of external
sustainable economic development.         resources.
Since health-sector financing has been rec-  The EDI is also supporting the formation of
ognized as an important bottleneck to improv-  networks among management-training and re-
ing health services, EDI expanded its activities  search institutions to stimulate cooperative
in this field in fiscal 1989 to reach both senior  self-help in improving their programs. This
policymakers and technical-level managers in  entails such measures as exchanges of infor-
all regions of the world. The following activi-  mation and staff, collaboration to fill gaps in
ties were undertaken: EDI, in collaboration  training materials, joint discussion of manage-
with the Pan American Health Organization,  ment problems, and organization of common
held a seminar on health financing in Barbados  courses for faculty development of member
for the Eastern Caribbean countries; provided  institutes. In Latin America and francophone
pedagogical assistance to an Eastern and  West Africa, for example, multicountry net-
Southern Africa Management Institute-spon-  works have been established in the urban-
sored seminar on health financing in February  management field; the focus is on joint devel-
1989; cosponsored an Asian seminar on social  opment, on a regional basis, of new curricula,
security health insurance in Seoul with the  related course materials, and the training-of-
International Labour Organisation  (ILO),  trainers programs.
WHO, and the Asian Development Bank; or-    Fiscal 1989 saw important new develop-
ganized a meeting on health financing with  ments in a major institutional-strengthening
senior officials from five Portuguese-speaking  project in sub-Saharan Africa financed by the
countries in Geneva during an annual World  United  Nations Development Programme
Health Assembly; and sponsored a consulta-  (UNDP), for which EDI, in collaboration with
tion with senior African policymakers in June  the ILO, is the executing agency. The project
1989 to review a draft World Bank health-  involves direct assistance to sixteen manage-
policy brief as it pertains to health financing in  ment-training institutions, as well as three as-
Africa. The EDI is also increasingly involved  sociations. To assist in the coordination of
in developing training in the related fields of  activities and to extend the project's outreach
population programs and the relationship be-  to other institutions, two field offices have
tween nutrition and health. In fiscal 1989, it  been established-one in Douala, Cameroon
cosponsored a population program with the  (for the francophone countries), and the other
United Nations Fund for Population Activities  in Gaborone, Botswana (for the anglophone
(UNFPA) in Zimbabwe for various anglophone  community).
countries.                                  The project is now entering its full-imple-
In line with the increased attention to  mentation phase. A number of workshops and
women in development in World Bank opera-  seminars, focusing on the practical develop-
tions, EDI intensified its efforts to include  ment problems of the partner institutions and
gender issues in its training programs and in  associations (faculty and consultancy skills,
the preparation of training materials. Modules  marketing, and financial management), were



Economic Development Institute  93
held during the year, and the main areas and  In addition to its regular end-of-seminar eval-
lines of interinstitutional collaboration under  uations, EDI carried out a number of in-depth
the project were agreed at a general meeting of  studies in fiscal 1989. The effect of EDI training
institute directors. Special efforts have been  in Senegal and Tanzania was evaluated, and
made to integrate gender issues into the pro-  suggestions made for increasing the contribu-
gram. The project has attracted collaboration  tion to development of future EDI types of
of other donors, including the Commonwealth  training efforts. A survey conducted in five
Secretariat and the Canadian International De-  Asian countries reviewed the effectiveness of
velopment Agency.                         "two-tier" seminars, in which one seminar for
Another capacity-building program for sub-  top-level public officials overlaps partially with
Saharan Africa in which EDI is engaged in  another on the same topic held for middle-level
providing pedagogical assistance is the agricul-  officials. The survey concluded that the ap-
ture management training-in-Africa program.  proach significantly improves in-country under-
The program, cofinanced by the International  standing and cooperation between ministries
Fund for Agricultural Development and the  and hierarchical levels. Finally, studies by par-
African Development Bank and aimed at up-  ticipant-observers at two training events in fis-
grading project-management and implementa-  cal 1989 provided valuable insights into the
tion skills, focuses in its current phase on  dynamics of training and ways to improve their
twenty projects in six countries of sub-Saharan  quality.
Africa.                                     External sources of support for EDI's pro-
The World Bank graduate scholarship pro-  grams in developing countries expanded fur-
gram, financed by the government of Japan, is  ther in fiscal 1989. While the UNDP continued
providing financial assistance to seventy-eight  to be the largest contributor to EDI's regular
scholars (nineteen of whom are women) in the  programs of seminars and institutional assis-
1988-89 academic year. Thirty-eight countries  tance, the increase in total cofinancing came
are represented, most of which are developing  largely, as it has in the past few years, from
member countries of the Bank. The scholars  bilateral aid agencies, whose contributions
are attending forty-four universities in Asia,  now represent well over half the total external
Australia, Europe, and North America. Thirty-  resources mobilized by EDI. This increase was
three scholars are pursuing master's level de-  due, in part, to the full-year effect of arrange-
grees, and forty-five are engaged in doctoral  ments that had been negotiated or renewed in
studies. For the 1989-90 academic year, 1,325  the previous year with Australia, Canada, Ja-
applications were received, and forty-three  pan, Italy, and Spain. Additional contributions
scholarships for graduate study were awarded.  from France, the Netherlands, Switzerland,
For the 1989 cycle of McNamara fellow-  the United Kingdom, and the United States
ships, eleven outstanding scholars from seven  also contributed significantly to the increase in
member countries of the Bank were awarded  cofinancing. Among multilateral organizations
fellowships aggregating $330,000 in support of  other than the UNDP, WHO and the United
innovative research topics in development eco-  Nations Commission on Human Settlements
nomics. Most of the year's recipients, who  (Habitat) remained EDI's most important col-
come from both developed and developing   laborators. The EDI continued throughout the
countries, will conduct research on either tech-  year to lay the groundwork for enlarging its
nology transfer to developing countries or ex-  cofinancing base, and discussions with inter-
change-rate issues. More than 300 applications  ested governments suggest that additional col-
were received from scholars in seventy-one  laborative arrangements, in one form or an-
countries for the year's round of fellowships.  other, are likely to be concluded in fiscal 1990.
The McNamara fellowships will support the  The EDI's collaboration with regional financial
researchers' work for one year beginning  institutions, such as the Asian Development
July 1, 1989.                             Bank and the Inter-American Development
A substantial volume of training materials  Bank, was strengthened during fiscal 1989 and
was published during the year. Fifty-seven  is likely to widen in fiscal 1990.
titles were added to the EDI catalog. Seven-  In May 1989, the executive board of the
teen are formal publications that appear in one  World Bank approved the EDI strategic plan
or another of the EDI series and are now  for the five-year period, 1990-94. The main
included in the list of World Bank publications.  thrust of the plan, prepared with considerable
Forty are informal publications, distributed in  help from EDI's new advisory board, will
response to requests. They include twenty-  continue to be towards policy issues and the
seven working papers and thirteen miscella-  strengthening of local training capacity. The
neous documents such as course notes, case  intended expansion of EDI's work program is
studies, and collected course papers.     likely to entail increased reliance on cofinanc-



94   World Bank Policies and Operations
ing. Based on the lessons of experience, a  sion program provides technical and policy ad-
number of refinements in program emphases   vice to countries intending to reform their trade
will be instituted: a sharper focus on selected  regimes. The social dimension of adjustment
priorities in each region and subject area; a  program, presently being executed by the Bank
slight shift from macroeconomic to sector-re-  in collaboration with the UNDP, the African
lated adjustment concerns; additional publica-  Development Bank, and bilateral donors, helps
tion and dissemination of training materials; a  ensure that the human dimensions of economic-
progressive move from ad hoc cofinancing of  adjustment programs are systematically taken
individual activities towards multiyear pro-  into account in countries undergoing adjust-
grams; more systematic and in-depth evaluation  ment. The safe motherhood operational re-
of EDI's activities; and the introduction of  search program, created at the initiative of the
annual activity reports to provide better feed-  Bank and executed by the World Health Orga-
back on the substance and lessons of EDI    nization, provides grants for studies on how to
activities for the rest of the Bank.        deliver maternal health care with greater effi-
ciency and on the effect of such health care on
Interagency Cooperation                     the health and lives of women and their young
The Bank and agencies of the United Na-   children. The Bank and the United Nations
tions continue to cooperate on a number of  Children's Fund (UNICEF) are actively work-
innovative global and interregional programs  ing together through the interagency task force
of special interest to developing countries.  for child survival, established to promote initi-
Significant among these ongoing programs are  atives aimed at protecting the world's children.
the Consultative Group on International Agri-  Combined efforts with other agencies have re-
cultural Research (CGIAR); the Energy Sector  sulted in an expanded immunization program
Management Assistance Program, implement-   for children worldwide. It is expected that many
ing priority energy investments and providing  developing countries will reach full immuniza-
related technical assistance; the Onchocercia-  tion by the end of 1990.
sis-riverblindness-Control Programme and      The past year witnessed a resurgence of
the Special Programme for Research and      international concern and collaboration for
Training in Tropical Diseases, which under-  educational priorities. With a renewed focus
take research into the development of better  on basic education, Unesco, the UNDP,
tools to control tropical diseases and provide  UNICEF, and the Bank have agreed to spon-
training and strengthening of institutions to  sor a "world conference on education for all."
increase research capability in tropical coun-  The conference, to be held early in 1990, is
tries; and the International Drinking Water  intended to serve as a catalyst for securing
Supply and Sanitation Decade, which identi-  basic education for all by the year 2000.
fies and  implements sanitation-investment    Nongovernmental Organizations. The Bank
projects and seeks to increase substantially  continues to accumulate considerable experi-
safe drinking water and sanitation by 1990.  ence in involving nongovernmental organiza-
Other recent cooperative endeavors toward  tions (NGOs) in Bank-assisted projects. Be-
improving economic and social conditions in  tween 1973 and 1988, NGOs were involved in
developing countries, particularly in Africa, are  some 200 projects supported by the Bank. Most
noteworthy. The United Nations Development  have been in Africa, and almost half in agricul-
Programme (UNDP)/World Bank trade expan-    ture and rural development (see Table 5-2).
Table 5-2. Projects Inioling NGOs. by Sector and Region. Fiscal Years 197-88
Region
Eu,,.Pe.    Ljtin    rotal
KIddle E:Lq.  %mc ri  nulmhe
.and N,.rth  and ihe   .1
c1-10i                              Mr..A.    Afric,   Carittcan  prrieci  P.-rcenilge
Agriculitire                   5      i         h                   (         45
EJhjiciaon ir rin                    1          I                             J 2tl  1(1
Population he:dlth            i1                2                             1 2
lndusr2 enerce                 4      Ut1       4                   2)1 Ii
1nfr:ituciuru urb:iii developnient  6  2X       2          6        42        21
ReconirtntnC'n                -      _         =           l        _
Tot.al num,ber ot prolc,I-    -1     11;       15         17'2
Pcrcent.lee                   2      5                     3                 1t)



Interagency Cooperation  95
Cooperation with NGOs continued to in-  million to community-based development pro-
crease in fiscal 1989. In his annual meetings  jects designed and implemented by NGOs and
speech to the board of governors of the Bank in  their beneficiaries.
September 1988, the president of the Bank   In some countries, the Bank is working with
encouraged Bank staff to "initiate a broadened  government officials to help establish public
dialogue with NGOs" and stated that he fully  policies and institutions that are conducive to
expected collaboration to "flourish." The  effective NGO contribution to national devel-
Bank is working with developing-country   opment. The Bank's most recent economic
member governments to expand, within the  report on Nepal, for example, documented
framework of their policies toward NGOs, the  NGO contributions to development among
involvement of NGOs in Bank-supported ac-  low-income groups and suggested steps that
tivities-especially in the early stages of proj-  the government, official donors, and NGOs
ect planning and design-as one way to     might take to strengthen the NGO sector. The
achieve greater effectiveness.            Philippines Department of Health is using the
Several reviews of Bank-assisted projects  health-development project, approved in fiscal
have confirmed the importance of beneficiary  1989 in the amount of $70.1 million, to learn
organizations to the success and sustainability  from and strengthen NGO community-health
of many development activities. NGOs, such  programs in the country.
as local women's groups, independent cooper-  The Bank has taken a number of steps to
atives, and private voluntary organizations,  foster increased NGO involvement in Bank-
can often bring insights about the needs and  supported activities, with the agreement of the
perspectives of low-income people into the  government and within the framework of the
planning and implementation of official devel-  relevant policies of the governments concerned.
opment projects. NGOs are increasingly in-  Resident missions are playing a lead role, since
volved with government officials at the design  they are well positioned to learn about NGOs
stage of Bank-supported projects. For exam-  that are active at the country level. Regional
ple, in the second Upper Krishna irrigation  staff have identified potential, subject to gov-
project, approved during the past fiscal year,  ernment agreement, for NGO involvement in
MYRADA (an Indian NGO) assisted in plan-  some 200 upcoming Bank-supported opera-
ning resettlement of up to 12,000 affected fam-  tions, and this list of projects is being distrib-
ilies. In Madagascar, NGOs contributed to the  uted to help NGOs involve themselves early in
formulation of a national environmental action  the project cycle. The Bank's Monthly Opera-
plan and of the social action plan that IDA is  tional Summary is also being sent to some 200
supporting through the economic management  NGOs around the world to help them learn
and social action project, approved in fiscal  about projects of interest to them and signal
1989.                                     potential social or environmental problems.
NGOs can be cost-effective in the delivery  An operational manual statement on collab-
of social services. A mid term review of the  oration with NGOs, issued in August 1988,
Bolivia second emergency social fund project  encourages staff to explore possibilities for
found that the project has been remarkably  operational collaboration, particularly with lo-
effective, partly because many NGOs-in-   cal NGOs, while bearing in mind the Bank's
cluding religious organizations and community  primary relationship with governments. The
groups-have been involved. The Imo state  Bank organized its first staff training course on
health and population project in Nigeria, also  NGO collaboration in March 1989. The Bank
approved in fiscal 1989, builds on a strong  has also established an NGO database to help
tradition of community self-reliance; commu-  staff learn about NGOs and to strengthen its
nity health committees, made up of represen-  institutional memory regarding NGOs.
tatives of traditional groups, women's organi-  NGOs in both developed and developing
zations, schools, and  local government   countries contribute to the Bank's thinking on
agencies, are responsible for developing and  important development issues in various ways.
implementing community health care and fam-  Unofficial conferences and NGO events are
ily-planning programs. Most Bank-supported  increasingly prominent during the annual meet-
population and health projects include a major  ings of the Bank and the IMF, for example. The
role for the local family-planning association or  Bank-NGO Committee continues to provide a
community-based health groups.            formal forum and focal point for policy discus-
The first freestanding NGO project financed  sion between Bank staff and NGOs. Well over
by the Bank-the grassroots-development ini-  half of the twenty-six NGO members on the
tiatives project in Togo-was approved in fis-  committee are from developing countries.
cal 1989. The government of Togo, supported  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
by IDA, will provide grant financing of $3  Development (OECD). As the decade of the



96   World Bank Policies and Operations
1980s draws to an end, aid donors are assessing  member countries. This has resulted in an
the lessons of experience and are planning  increasing emphasis on the need to strengthen
strategies for the 1990s. In the Development  collaboration between the Bank and the IMF.
Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD,     Over the past several years, many steps
which is the primary policy-coordination fo-  have been taken to strengthen collaboration
rum for bilateral donors, aid in the 1990s was a  -including the increased sharing of informa-
key theme during the past year.           tion, cross-attendance by staff at selected
The OECD Development Center's twenty-   meetings of the executive boards of the two
fifth anniversary symposium provided an op-  institutions, and temporary exchange of staff.
portunity for the international community to  Greater coordination in financial assistance
deliberate on a sustainable development strat-  has increasingly been achieved while continu-
egy for the new decade in the face of continu-  ing to avoid cross-conditionality.
ing uncertainties in the world economy. The  Given the central role of the Bank and the
Bank's observer status in DAC and its continu-  IMF in helping countries design and implement
ing strong working relationship with the OECD  adjustment programs, the two institutions rec-
secretariat have enabled Bank staff to partici-  ognize the need to work even more effectively
pate in these and related debates on poverty  together in areas of common concern and
alleviation and equitable growth, the environ-  complement one another using their compara-
ment, health care, and private-sector develop-  tive advantages. The central task for both
ment. There have also been opportunities to  institutions is to continue to move towards
share experience with the broader aid commu-  better and more effective understandings over
nity on NGOs (especially those from develop-  the whole range of policies required for each
ing countries), women in development, techni-  country, the mobilization of adequate financial
cal assistance, and progress under the special  support for economic-reform programs, and
program of assistance for Africa.         the monitoring of these programs in time, as
A first DAC meeting using a regional ap-  well as range.
proach enabled bilateral and multilateral agen-  Given the complexity of the problems faced
cies active in South Asia to focus on problems  by the developing member countries of the
that countries in that area have in common.  Bank and the IMF, the different perspectives of
The Bank helped to develop the "principles of  the two institutions, and the increased overlap-
project appraisal," which represent the com-  ping of their activities, it is not unusual that
mitment of donors to harmonize their proce-  differences of view may sometimes arise. How-
dures in the interest of developing countries  ever, the two institutions recognize that it is
and to adhere to sound economic, financial,  essential that the advice they offer be consis-
technical, environmental, and social principles  tent. The president of the Bank and the manag-
in project lending.                       ing director of the IMF acted in concert during
Participation in other OECD fora permits the  the past year to strengthen collaboration, to
Bank to bring its development perspective to  more clearly define institutional responsibili-
bear and to integrate industrial-country issues  ties, to ensure that conflicts of views were
into its own analytical and advisory work.  resolved at an early stage, and that these neither
Bank staff have recently participated in meet-  surfaced in contacts with country authorities
ings of bankers, debt analysts, forecasters,  nor resulted in differing policy advice to mem-
environmentalists, and trade specialists. Meet-  ber countries. New guidelines were issued to
ings of the Economic Policy Committee have  the staffs of the two institutions reflecting these
focused on agriculture, savings, and invest-  basic positions. The guidelines, which were
ment. The Bank attends the annual ministerial-  discussed by the executive directors, are de-
level meeting, which, during the past year,  signed to ensure the closest possible collabora-
concentrated on growth and global interdepen-  tion and working relations between the two
dence, including the Uruguay Round, the envi-  institutions, while recognizing that each institu-
ronment, and debt. Since October 1988, coop-  tion must make its financial assistance available
eration has been facilitated by on-line and  to its members in accordance with the standards
direct electronic communications between the  laid down in their respective Articles of Agree-
Bank and the OECD, making consultation and  ment and the policies adopted by their respec-
the exchange of data much more efficient.  tive executive boards.
Collaboration between the Bank and the In-  The guidelines include, among others, the
ternational Monetary  Fund. During  the   following points:
1980s, the work of the Bank and the Interna-  * The daily interactions and ad hoc contacts
tional Monetary Fund (IMF) has increasingly  involving management and staffs (as well as
moved into areas of common concern in re-  monthly and ad hoc meetings between the
sponse to the evolving adjustment needs of  president and the managing director) will be



Interagency Cooperation  97
supplemented with regular meetings of the  that funds research programs and related activ-
senior staff of each institution. These meetings  ities, including training, carried out by a net-
will anticipate and thus reduce the differences  work of thirteen international agricultural-re-
of view between the two staffs.           search centers. The Bank is a cosponsor of the
* Whenever conditionality or advice to  CGIAR, together with the Food and Agriculture
countries on major issues is involved, agree-  Organization of the UN (FAO) and the UNDP.
ment will be sought early and promptly among  CGIAR-funded programs cover most of the
working-level staffs. Detailed procedures were  world's major food crops, and include research
put in place to resolve issues that are not  on animal-production systems, as well as food
resolved at the staff level.              policy. One of the CGIAR centers encourages
* In the low-income countries, discussions  the collection and preservation of the germ-
concerning policy framework papers will con-  plasm of food crops. Another devotes itself to
tinue to be handled jointly on the basis of  supporting developing-country research sys-
preagreed terms of reference and, whenever  tems.
possible, with a single mission chief at    High-yielding cultivars of wheat and rice,
an appropriate rank. When parallel missions  based on research at CGIAR centers, are now
are in the field, they will be expected to coop-  grown on half of the wheat land in developing
erate fully and meet jointly with country au-  countries and on more than half of the rice
thorities, following positions clearly agreed on  land. Research into both commodities contin-
in advance.                               ues, with the goal of producing new varieties
* In order to better coordinate assistance to  that increase yields without depleting natural
debtor countries faced with the need to develop  resources. Research on cassava, millet, sor-
other innovative forms of financing, including  ghum, and other food crops, as well as re-
those aimed at debt reduction, a task force to  search on farming systems and post-harvest
promote cooperation, analysis, and the ex-  technologies, also continue to have a broad
change of information on the financing tech-  impact. The need to apply dangerous pesti-
niques of the two institutions was established.  cides has been reduced as a result of integrated
* In dealing with other institutions that have  pest-management programs and biological-
an interest in matters of debt and growth (the  control programs devised by CGIAR centers.
United Nations and the OECD and its DAC, for  In calendar year 1988, contributions to the
example), draft reports prepared by one of the  centers totaled $212 million, up $10.4 million
two institutions, to the maximum extent possi-  from 1987. The Bank contributed $30 million.
ble, will be sent to the other well in advance of  The strength of the United States dollar re-
the circulation date for review and comment so  sulted in lower dollar revenues from donations
as to provide an additional opportunity to iden-  in nondollar currencies, but center programs
tify and resolve possible problems.       were generally unaffected because of the exist-
* Finally, to better acquaint staff of one  ence of a special "stabilization" fund that
institution with the corporate culture and con-  compensated for exchange-rate losses. The
straints within which the other operates, an  stabilization mechanism, established in 1984
exchange of staff will be initiated at the senior  with Bank funds, buffers the budgets of the
professional level. During a two-year or three-  thirteen  international agricultural-research
year period of secondment, staff members will  centers against short-term exchange-rate and
be wholly integrated into the regular staff  inflation-rate fluctuations. Exchange rates fa-
of the institution to which they have been  vorable to the system in previous years helped
seconded.                                 to create the reserves that were used in 1988.
Taking note of the agreement between the  Focus on sustainability. The development of
heads of the two organizations, members of the  sustainable agriculture was reemphasized as a
Development Committee, meeting in Washing-  major responsibility of the CGIAR when the
ton, D.C., in April 1989, welcomed the efforts  group held its mid term meeting in Berlin
of the Bank and the IMF to develop further  (West) in May 1988. A report from the group's
their collaboration, while avoiding cross-con-  Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), as well
ditionality, and to make full use of their com-  as Our Common Future, the report of the
parative advantage in respect of the advice  World Commission on Environment and De-
they offer borrowing countries on the design,  velopment, served as the basis for discussion
financing, and monitoring of structural-adjust-  among donors. Defining sustainability, the
ment programs.                            TAC report said that "sustainable agriculture
Cooperation on Agricultural Research. The  should involve the successful management of
Consultative Group on International Agricul-  resources for agriculture to satisfy changing
tural Research (CGIAR) is an informal associa-  human needs, while maintaining or enhancing
tion of forty public and private-sector donors  the quality of the environment and enhancing



98   World Bank Policies and Operations
natural resources." Several concerns emerged  some instances, many national systems have
from the discussion: for instance, how to de-  reached high levels of competence. Con-
velop technologies that encourage sustainable  versely, however, many national systems are
development; how best to evaluate the new  inadequately supported, both domestically and
technologies; and how to support national re-  by the international donor community. Against
search systems as they carry out new respon-  this background, the CGIAR found it appropri-
sibilities arising from an overall emphasis on  ate to reexamine and, where necessary, reor-
sustainable development.                   der its relations with national research sys-
The CGIAR system has always been commit-  tems.
ted to the sustainability of agriculture, but the  Direct links between international centers
group saw that a renewed effort was required.  and national systems underwent a qualitative
In response to the views expressed, the chair-  change, in some instances, with representa-
man of the CGIAR, World Bank senior vice   tives of national systems drawn into the re-
president for policy, planning, and research, W.  search process from the first stages of plan-
David Hopper, appointed a technical group,  ning. Scientists from  international centers
including the scientific leadership at the centers,  continued to help strengthen national systems.
to help determine what specific form that effort  At the same time, the CGIAR began to exam-
should take. In one of its first actions, the  ine the issue of how specific responsibilities
technical group designed a matrix by which the  should be shared between international centers
sustainability orientation of each of the thirteen  and national systems.
CGIAR centers' research programs could be    Strengthening research in Africa. Many of
defined and assessed as a prelude to detailed  the programs that centers will initiate will be
recommendations for future programs.       supported by the infrastructure and systems
Expansion of the system. A second major   developed over the past several years. In Af-
theme that occupied the group was the rela-  rica, two new research facilities-both di-
tionship of the CGIAR system to international  rected at increasing food supplies and pro-
agricultural-research centers not directly asso-  tecting  fragile  African  ecosystems-were
ciated with the group at present. A substantial  established in 1988.
number of these "nonassociated centers" fo-  In Niger, just outside the capital city of
cus on resources such as soil, water, and  Niamey, a 1,200-acre research center for the
forests, whose future contribution to food and  Sahelian zone was put into operation as a base
agricultural production is central to sustain-  for pearl millet, groundnuts, and dryland crop-
ability. For this reason, among others, the  ping-systems research. The center is part of
group decided to embark on a review of the ten  the International Crops Research Institute for
nonassociated centers in order to decide   the Semi-arid Tropics (ICRISAT), based in
whether some or all of them should be brought  Hyderabad, India. The Niamey center will
into the CGIAR system.                     strengthen  cooperative  research  between
At the group's annual meeting, held in Oc-  ICRISAT and national research systems seek-
tober 1988 in Washington, D.C., the group  ing to increase food production in areas of
approved a proposal by the TAC chairman that  scarce rainfall and poor soil fertility. It also
called for the programs and management of the  provides a base for several other international
ten nonassociated centers to be reviewed in  agencies doing agricultural research in the
relation to CGIAR programs. The group also  Sahel.
agreed that such a review should consider the  To the southwest, in Benin, work was com-
possibilities of cutting back on lower-priority  pleted in 1988 on the CGIAR's first facility
activities currently financed by the CGIAR.  devoted to biocontrol. The International Insti-
Specific proposals will be formulated and de-  tute of Tropical Agriculture's Biological Con-
cided on at the completion of the reviews. In a  trol Center in Cotonou was inaugurated in
connected  development, several donors,    October. The center is an extension of a pro-
which have been collaborating under the spon-  gram that has reversed the spread of the cas-
sorship of the Bank, the FAO, and the UNDP  sava mealybug, an insect pest responsible for
in looking at worldwide needs for forestry  $5.5 billion in damages to Africa's cassava
research, urged the CGIAR to consider adding  crop. Recent studies indicate that the cost-
forestry to its areas of concerns.         benefit ratio of the mealybug-control program
Support to national systems. Collaboration  is well in excess of $100 for each dollar in-
between international centers and national re-  vested. Research at the Cotonou facility will
search systems is a continuing process on  also cover other pests, including large grain
which the implementation of research de-   borers-a recent invader from Latin America
pends. Partly as a result of this association,  -several other cereal borers, locusts and
and also because of strong domestic support in  grasshoppers, water hyacinth, which clogs in-



Technical Assistance  99
Table 5-3. Aid Coordinalion Group SMeetings Held in Fiscal Year 1989
icr) n   ,'n,ul i.,i; .Ind  .1J er.Oir, I
Ch,. v~,-rnlravL                    .in.fl
CIl,i, 1U, I d/hit. 'rid BRank 
Julk f`-7. 19S              H.'ii B .i onr.ult.we gioup          P,r'-. Frjnc-
JUNs H. 19&9!6               Taini.inia co,LmutJi%e czroup        P-JII. F rI ric1e
Septerrher 15. 19.ssitiadn confLuI[Alle gr(tLp                    P:1ri- France
Seplefrnhei 19. 19:ss       Nl(liaMh1+JL con,nijiltave L:i4)F     P;.r, . Fr;.-nce
October '4. 19SK            ken%. CCnUlLd[,U,e ,'ro&jr           PAr, Fra r e
OCI%lt'Lr -'-. MS^          Llg.inda cowlluliamle group           P.iril. Fr.,n,ne
No%.eniber 3. 19S8          Nloz.nimbique conuul!.flil L:rup r.,IIP . l-r.nce
No.remrber IS 19S          Nepp.d :ud proIJp                    Pr.u,, r.tnKe
Decemher 1'. 14SS           Mauritninj con'ltlmil\c group         Paris Fr:nce
Fehru.,ry,   N IN           Gih.ln- on-uIltri%e gi.ur            Pris. i r:.,icc
April lS-1p 194S9           BanrldeNh :.lid group                lPart,. France
April 20. 19X9              P:aki iun conr.or-.un'                Kjri,. F r.nec
Ma% 25-26f. MY)             P.pua Nc%% (Ouine.~ cunsuIdiivltl e croupr  Tok%c Jp.mn
June 19-2i'n 14844          Irndi. consolti,um                    Pa r i Fran.c
Jujne 21-22. Vmcp           Sri L.nkiid ad erour                 PRa,i  France
Cha Zirit t'  m  / iii   N !t th   r It in 11 J
lune 11-14. 19b             Inter-,ovein!icnni,d t ;|i,i|jp on ind,rne.ia  1rhe H.,cu.. Ne[herLnd1
land waterways, and a parasitic weed known    among borrowers to undertake assistance on
as 'striga," which is a major impediment to  their own. Second, the share of adjustment
increases in African maize production.        operations in all regions has increased from 8.4
The past year also saw the relocation of the  percent in calendar 1984 to 24.5 percent in
West Africa Rice Development Association      calendar 1988. This type of lending normally
(WARDA) to C6te d'Ivoire. The move was        requires a proportionately smaller amount of
part of the revitalization of the once-ailing  technical assistance than regular investment
regional rice-research program. WARDA now     operations; much of the technical assistance
operates from temporary headquarters near    that is associated with adjustment lending is
Bouake and conducts research on land pro-     provided through separate, freestanding tech-
vided by the Ivorian national research pro-   nical-assistance projects. Third, there is a re-
gram. Planning for a permanent 3,200-acre    luctance by countries to borrow for technical
headquarters site in the Mbe valley is under  assistance if prospects are favorable for secur-
way.                                          ing technical assistance on grant terms.
Freestanding technical-assistance loans fi-
Technical Assistance                          nance projects devoted entirely to technical
The major source of technical assistance in  assistance. Sixty-one freestanding technical-
Bank lending comes from technical-assistance  assistance projects were approved during the
components in loans and credits. In calendar  five-year period, calendar 1984-88, for an an-
year 1988, technical-assistance components in-  nual average amount of $129.3 million. In 1988,
creased slightly in amount, from $1,022.3 mil-  twelve projects were approved. Of these, ten
lion in 1987 to $1,095.1 million. The major   were in the Africa region; the other two were in
change occurred in the Africa region, where  the Latin America and the Caribbean region.
technical-assistance components increased by  Although small in size compared with other
50 percent in amount. In contrast, the shares in  Bank operations, freestanding technical-assis-
other regions declined. As a percentage of total  tance loans and credits may target specific
lending, the share of technical-assistance com-  technical-assistance activities in support of ad-
ponents in all regions fell from 6.5 percent in  justment programs, both at the macro and
the five-year period, 1984-88, to 5.7 percent in  micro levels. At the macro level, support is
1988.                                        commonly geared to strengthening governmen-
The decrease in the weight of technical-   tal capacity to formulate and/or implement
assistance components is the result of at least  economic policies and reform measures. At the
three factors. First, there is a growing capacity  micro level, assistance is largely focused on



100   World Bank Policies and Operations
specific sectors and is aimed at improving  OED staff. The cumulative total of Bank oper-
efficiency and expanding output.          ations subjected to ex-post evaluation reached
In 1988, ninety-two project-preparation fa-  2,152 by the end of the fiscal year.
cility (PPF) advances were approved, for a  A Bankwide working group reviewed the
total of $66.6 million. The use of the facility is  preparation of project-completion reports.
concentrated in the Africa region, averaging,  This working group formulated a number of
by value, 79.5 percent of all advances in the  specific recommendations to help ensure the
five-year period, 1984-88, followed by Latin  timely production of PCRs, to improve the
America and the Caribbean (10.4 percent),  quality of the PCRs through increased empha-
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa (7.3  sis on the analysis of main issues and lesson-
percent), and Asia (2.8 percent). The use of the  learning rather than description, to encourage
facility has increased sharply since 1986. In  substantive borrower participation in the prep-
part, this can be attributed to the increase in  aration of PCRs, and to make the whole PCR
the number of IDA credits approved. By sec-  process as cost-effective as possible. With this
tor, the use of the facility is most heavily found  in mind, it was agreed that PCR preparation
in the agriculture sector (29 percent), followed  should start during the last supervision mission
by technical assistance and transportation (10  of each project. In addition, a new, three-part
percent each).                            format of the PCR was designed: Parts I and
Special project-preparation facility (SPPF)  III, to be completed by the Bank, analyze the
advances increased in 1988 compared with the  project experience and include the relevant
previous year, but approvals of $3.4 million  data, while Part II, to be completed by the
were below the $5 million peak set in 1986.  borrower, presents the borrower's views on
The Bank's portfolio of United Nations De-  the project and the issues.
velopment Programme projects under Bank     Equally important are the recommendations
execution consists of 154 projects in progress,  of a task force that analyzed the dissemination
for a total of $234.5 million. Disbursements on  and utilization of OED findings in the context
these projects have been increasing in recent  of the reorganized Bank and made a number of
years at an annual rate of 14 percent.    suggestions designed to enhance the effective-
ness of the process, including: that OED
Operations Evaluation                     sharpen its message, that formal management
Operations evaluation provides systematic  responses to major OED studies be reinsti-
and independent assessment of Bank opera-  tuted, and that earlier evaluation findings be
tions and activities. its principal objectives are  cited more systematically in decision memo-
to account to the Bank's shareholders for the  randa and board documents. The recommen-
outcome of Bank-supported projects and pro-  dations of both the working group and the task
grams and to feed back that experience into the  force were endorsed by the Bank's manage-
design and conduct of future operations.  ment, the DGO, and the JAC, and are now
The director-general, operations evaluation  being incorporated into operational guidelines.
(DGO), has overall responsibility for the eval-  The Annual Review of Project Performance
uation function. He reports directly to the  Results, covering calendar year 1987, was is-
executive board and is supported by the oper-  sued in October 1988 and was subsequently
ations evaluation department (OED). The Joint  published. The review constitutes an important
Audit Committee (JAC) of the board oversees  mechanism for synthesizing the results of op-
the work of the OED. As in the past, the  erations evaluation, thus contributing to the
committee's findings and recommendations  cumulative assessment of the Bank's opera-
were reviewed during the year by the full  tional effectiveness. A new, more analytical
board, as was the fiscal 1988 annual report of  and thematic design was approved by the JAC
the director-general and the department's An-  for future Annual Reviews and will begin to be
nual Review of Project Performance Results  reflected in the next review, covering calendar
for 1987.                                 year 1988, which is currently being completed.
Most OED evaluations fall into two catego-  Of the 187 projects covered by the 1987
ries: audits of completed projects and pro-  review, 72 percent were considered to have
grams and special studies that address broader  achieved satisfactory results. This compares
development issues at the country and sectoral  with 82 percent the year before. The signifi-
level. During fiscal 1989, performance audits of  cantly higher rating in the year before was the
ninety-two operations were issued to the exec-  result partly of that year's different sectoral
utive board. In addition, project-completion  and regional composition. The satisfactory rate
reports (PRCs), prepared by operational staff  was 70 percent two years ago. Satisfactory
and covering 136 projects, were passed on to  performance achievements in 1987 continued
the executive directors without full audit by  to be concentrated in the Asia (84 percent) and



Internal Auditing  101
the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa (83  reorganized Bank. In this context, the OED is
percent) regions. The percentage of satisfac-  stepping up its interaction with other units
tory outcomes for the Latin America and the  Bankwide to ensure the continued relevance of
Caribbean region was 68; for the Africa region,  its products, to support their dissemination,
it was 53. Among the sectors, the seven struc-  and to report on their impact.
tural-adjustment projects had the highest satis-
factory assessment rating in 1987-86 percent.  Internal Auditing
Agricultural and rural-development projects  The internal auditing department (IAD),
had the lowest-61 percent.                headed by an auditor-general (a newly formed
OED's fiscal 1989 work program was dis-  position within the reorganized Bank), reports
cussed and agreed in April 1988. In addition to  functionally to the president of the Bank and
OED's activities related to PCRs and audits,  administratively to the senior vice president,
this program includes a broad array of studies.  external affairs and administration.
Studies are the most effective instrument avail-  Internal auditing is an independent appraisal
able to OED for documenting and distilling  function within the Bank that reviews and
recommendations-not only because they are  evaluates Bank operations and activities as a
topical but also because groups of operations  service to the Bank. This appraisal function is
offer considerably more scope for drawing  accomplished through operational audits of the
lessons than do single audits. A prime consid-  financial and operating systems and proce-
eration in identifying and selecting studies is  dures used in the conduct and management of
their relevance to current and prospective is-  the Bank's operations. The overall objective of
sues as identified by executive directors, mem-  the IAD is to assist vice presidents, depart-
ber countries, and Bank management and staff.  ment directors, and other managers in the
The study program covers studies in various  effective discharge of their responsibilities by
stages of progress. The topics range from  providing them with periodic reports and ap-
country studies, macroeconomic and policy  praisals carried out on activities within their
reviews (structural-adjustment loans and sec-  respective areas of responsibility.
tor-adjustment loans), and sectoral studies (im-  IAD's examination and evaluation of the
pact studies of irrigation and of agricultural  adequacy and effectiveness of policies, sys-
credit in different countries, a review of rural-  tems, and internal controls used in the manage-
roads maintenance, education-impact studies,  ment and conduct of activities include, as
a power-sector review, and a review of sustain-  appropriate, an assessment of the reliability
ability of development finance companies) to  and integrity of financial and operating infor-
operational issues, such as technical assistance  mation. The department reviews systems al-
in sub-Saharan Africa and procurement and  ready established to ensure adherence to those
construction modes in highway projects. These  governing agreements, instruments, and re-
examples of topics covered provide a flavor of  lated decisions, as well as to regulations, poli-
the diversity and complexity of OED's study  cies. plans, and procedures that could have a
program, as well as an indication of the future  material effect on operations; it also reports
focus of OED's dissemination activities. Eight  and determines the extent of such compliance.
studies were sent to the executive board during  In addition, where appropriate, each audit in-
the fiscal year, and another four were substan-  cludes an evaluation of the means used to
tially completed.                         safeguard the World Bank's assets from vari-
Two other studies were published during the  ous types of losses, an appraisal of the effi-
year: a study on educational development in  ciency and economy with which resources are
Thailand and the role of Bank lending to that  used, and the accomplishment of established
sector and a review of agricultural-pricing pol-  goals and objectives of specific programs or
icies as conditionality in Bank lending. Two  operations.
further studies dealing  with renewable-    In order to achieve its objectives, the depart-
resource management and agricultural market-  ment prepares an annual work program, which
ing are being prepared for publication in early  is considered by the Joint Audit Committee of
fiscal 1990.                              the executive board. This annual program is
In his annual report to the executive direc-  derived from a master work program, an overall
tors, the director-general provided a detailed  assessment of total audit coverage for which the
account of all evaluation activities in the Bank,  department is responsible. During fiscal 1989, a
including those conducted by the IFC and the  comprehensive review of this master work pro-
Economic Development Institute. The direc-  gram was initiated to ensure that it remain
tor-general emphasized the need for a strong  appropriate to the current Bank environment.
evaluation function as a necessary complement  In parallel with this review, a fundamental re-
to the increased delegation of authority in the  assessment of the methodology used within the



102   World Bank Policies and Operations
department to assess the degree of risk associ-  made the corporation a stronger institution,
ated with specific parts of the Bank's operations  able to offer its member countries a greater
was undertaken. The result of this exercise  variety of services.
should be a methodology that enables the allo-  Fiscal year 1989 was a record year in terms
cation of scarce audit resources to be priori-  of the volume of new projects and the IFC's
tized. Within the annual work program, specific  own financial performance. The IFC approved
provision is made to allocate a proportion of  investments of all types of $1,709 million for
IAD resources to meet requests by operational  ninety projects, with total costs of $9,694 mil-
managers for ad hoc assignments.           lion. Disbursements reached $870 million. The
During the past year, a significant proportion  IFC's net income increased for the third suc-
of IAD resources was allocated to a special  cessive year to a record $197 million.
review, which had been requested by the sen-  Fiscal 1989 marked a major milestone for the
ior vice president, operations, of loan-pro-  IFC, with the decision to apply for a rating for
cessing arrangements. Other major assign-  a public issue of the corporation's debt securi-
ments undertaken during the year included a  ties. The conferral of a AAA rating by Stan-
special review of the reorganization budget,  dard & Poor and a Aaa rating by Moody was
procurement in investment lending, technical  recognition of the IFC's superior financial sta-
assistance, trust funds, security of informa-  tus. Access to the top-rated public securities'
tion-resource management, data sharing, and  markets will help minimize the IFC's funding
the project-preparation facility.          costs, while broadening significantly its inves-
A number of activities were initiated by the  tor base-advantages that can also benefit the
auditor-general to enhance the quality of the  IFC's clients. Moreover, the ratings will help
department's work. A strategic review, identi-  the IFC's efforts to mobilize funds by confirm-
fying the major issues facing the department  ing to the commercial-banking community that
into the mid 1990s, was completed. A compre-  it successfully combines profitability with its
hensive study of departmental standards, pol-  broader developmental role.
icies, and procedures was undertaken, new    As part of a continuing effort to mobilize
approaches to staff recruitment and training  equity in its developing member countries, the
were introduced, communications with client  IFC established a new international securities
departments were enhanced, and the possibil-  group within its capital markets department.
ity of arranging the interchange of staff with  The group will be responsible for structuring
other departments was also examined.       securities transactions and executing sales of
Finally, means by which members of the    shares in enterprises in the IFC's developing
senior management council can be kept aware  member countries to dealers, brokers, and
of significant findings arising from IAD work in  investors. The IFC has already reached agree-
their respective units and of the status of  ments with the authorities in Japan and in the
implementation of recommendations made in  United Kingdom, permitting it to place securi-
internal audit reports came into operation with  ties in those financial markets.
the introduction of formal meetings held by the  The capital markets department continued to
auditor-general at six-month intervals at which  provide technical assistance to member gov-
these matters are discussed.               ernments in capital-markets development.
Through the foreign investment advisory ser-
International Finance Corporation          vice (FIAS), ajoint service of the IFC and the
The mandate of the International Finance  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency,
Corporation (IFC) is to promote private-sector  the IFC also provided advice to governments
development in its developing member coun-  on mechanisms for encouraging foreign direct
tries. It does this by financing private-sector  investment.
projects, mobilizing funds from other investors  With the creation of a new corporate finance
and lenders for projects, and providing techni-  services group, the IFC has expanded its abil-
cal assistance and advisory services to both  ity to provide advisory services in two impor-
governments and private enterprises.       tant areas: corporate restructurings and priva-
Fiscal year 1989 marked the ctose of the  tization.
IFC's five-year program. Despite difficult eco-  In collaboration with five bilateral donor
nomic conditions in the developing world, par-  agencies from its developed member countries,
ticularly during fiscal years 1985 and 1986,  the IFC set up trust funds totaling $4 million to
most of the   program's objectives were    finance technical-assistance projects. A new
achieved, and some were surpassed. The     technology service unit was established to help
IFC's growth over the period, supported by  companies identify and acquire appropriate
the doubling of its authorized capital from $650  technologies, from developed, as well as from
million to $1,300 million in December 1985, has  other developing, countries.



Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency  103
Sub-Saharan Africa continued to be one of  ing, agriculture and agribusiness, aquaculture,
the corporation's priorities: the African man-  manufacturing, services, energy, and forestry.
agement services company (AMSCo) and the    Guarantees are available for eligible invest-
Africa enterprise fund (AEF) were both    ments that had not been made or irrevocably
launched during the year. The former will  committed at the point of filing a preliminary
address the need of African enterprises for  application for guarantee. After submission of
better management, while the latter will allow  a preliminary application, the second step
the corporation to increase its assistance to  toward obtaining the guaranty is to complete a
small and medium-sized African enterprises.  more detailed, definitive application for guar-
Moreover, in light of the success of the African  antee. By the end of the fiscal year, fifteen
project-development facility, which began op-  definitive applications had been filed, covering
erations in 1986, an extension of that service in  investments in eleven countries.
a second phase is now being considered.     Policy and advisory services. The principal
While the IFC's traditional investment activ-  task of MIGA's policy and advisory services
ities will continue to grow in the coming years,  (PAS) is to help promote the flow of foreign
the IFC plans to make special efforts to expand  investments to and among developing coun-
its advisory services and fund mobilization  tries and to assist these countries in creating an
activities. It will also devote more attention to  attractive and hospitable investment climate.
small and medium-sized enterprises, which are  A major component of the PAS is the foreign
often dynamic and innovative and make up a  investment advisory services (FIAS). Estab-
significant portion of the productive economy  lished in 1986 in the International Finance
in many developing countries.             Corporation, it became, in late 1988, a joint
Full details of the IFC's fiscal year can be  venture between MIGA and the IFC. FIAS is
found in its annual report, which is published  charged with providing advice and technical
separately.                               assistance to developing countries on their
investment laws, policies, programs, and insti-
Multilateral Investment Guarantee         tutions. The advice and technical assistance
Agency                                    are designed to promote, regulate, and other-
The Multilateral Investment Guarantee   wise influence the amount and character of
Agency (MIGA), the newest member of the   foreign direct investment that member coun-
"World Bank Group," has a specialized man-  tries receive.
date: to encourage equity investment and other  In fiscal 1989, FIAS staff worked on four-
direct investment flows to developing coun-  teen advisory projects, four conferences, and
tries through the mitigation of noncommercial  four research projects. Of the advisory proj-
investment barriers, especially political risk.  ects, ten were completed, including five in
To carry out this mandate, MIGA offers inves-  MIGA member countries. These five projects
tors guarantees against noncommercial risks;  involved making recommendations on new ap-
advises developing member governments on  proaches to the problem of foreign-exchange
the design and implementation of policies, pro-  allocation to joint ventures in China; assistance
grams, and procedures related to foreign in-  in formulating a new foreign-investment code
vestments; and sponsors a dialogue between  in Togo; identifying policy impediments to
the international business community and host  foreign investment in the agricultural sector in
governments on investment issues.         Indonesia and Senegal; and a general diagnosis
The guarantee program. Through media ex-  of policy issues for foreign investment in Mad-
posure, referrals by national investment credit  agascar.
insurers, direct mailings, participation in busi-  In addition to the advisory functions that
ness and trade fora, and seminars, MIGA's  FIAS undertakes, PAS also provides consulta-
guarantee program was successfully launched  tive services to developing member countries
in fiscal 1989. By June 30, 1989, MIGA had  that include the design and organization of
received sixty-nine preliminary applications  investment promotion fora, specialized re-
for guarantee, covering potential investments  search and other related activities aimed at
in twenty-four member countries. During   enhancing the level of investments and pro-
the year, twenty-one additional preliminary  moting opportunities for joint ventures in de-
applications were received for projects in fif-  veloping countries.
teen countries that have not yet become MIGA  As of June 30, 1989, the convention establish-
signatories.                              ing MIGA had been signed by fifteen category
The variety of host countries in which the  one (capital-exporting) countries and fifty-
proposed investments are to be made is en-  eight category two (capital-importing) coun-
couraging. A diversity of sectors is also repre-  tries, whose subscriptions totaled 74.43 per-
sented in these applications and includes min-  cent of the agency's authorized capital. Fifty-



104   World Bank Policies and Operations
two signatory states had also ratified the con-  As of June 30, 1989, ICSID membership com-
vention; their subscriptions totaled 65.21  prised ninety-one member countries of the
percent of the capital. Membership in MIGA is  World Bank, plus Switzerland. In addition,
open to all members of the Bank and to Swit-  seven countries have signed but not yet ratified
zerland.                                   the Convention.
Details of MIGA's activities in fiscal year  There are currently nine disputes pending
1989 appear in its annual report, which is  before the centre. These include two proceed-
published separately.                      ings for the annulment of an award and seven
arbitration cases. During the fiscal year, the
International Centre for Settlement of     disputes in two other cases submitted to the
Investment Disputes                        centre were amicably settled. This brought to
The International Centre for Settlement of  eleven the number of ICSID cases that have
Investment Disputes (ICSID) is a separate  been settled or discontinued, as compared with
international organization established under  nine that have given rise to binding awards.
the Convention on the Settlement of Invest-  The high proportion of settlements is encour-
ment Disputes between States and Nationals of  aging evidence of ICSID's ability to facilitate
Other States (the Convention), which was   the resolution of disputes on terms agreed by
opened for signature in 1965 and entered into  the parties.
force on October 14, 1966. Pursuant to the   In addition to administering conciliation and
provisions of the Convention, ICSID provides  arbitration cases, ICSID carries out a variety
facilities for the conciliation and arbitration of  of promotional and publications activities. The
investment disputes between an ICSID mem-  centre's publications include a semiannual law
ber state and a national or nationals of other  journal, ICSID Review-Foreign Investment
member states. The World Bank sponsored the  Law Journal, and multivolume collections of
Convention in the belief that the availability of  Investment Laws of the World and of Invest-
such facilities could contribute to creating an  ment Treaties. Two issues of the law journal
atmosphere of mutual confidence conducive to  and four releases of the investment laws and
increasing the flow of private foreign invest-  treaties collections were published in fiscal
ment into countries seeking it.            1989.
Membership in ICSID continued to grow      Details of ICSID's activities in fiscal year
with the ratification of the Convention by  1989 appear in the annual report of the centre,
Honduras and Turkey during the fiscal year.  which is published separately.



105
Section Six
1989 Regional Perspectives
Africa
Reflecting normal weather conditions, a        GDP has grown at 2.6 percent a year during
terms-of-trade improvement (except for the       1985-88, counteracting the general perception
petroleum exporters), and continued structural   that Africa is a continent still in unrelenting
adjustment, sub-Saharan Africa's gross do-       decline. On average, oil exporters, which ac-
mestic product (GDP) is estimated to have        count for a quarter of the region's population,
grown modestly in 1988, reversing the decline    grew at a lower rate (2.3 percent a year) and
in the previous year. The recovery was shared    experienced larger fluctuations in GDP. In
by most countries in the region.                 contrast, the low-income countries in the re-
Although the varied performance of African     gion have had more steady growth, averaging
countries makes it hard to isolate general       2.6 percent annually. Growth, however, has
trends, in aggregate, sub-Saharan    Africa's    been inadequate to permit increases in per
Table 6-1. Africa: 1987 Population and Per Capila GNP of Country Borrowers.
Fiscal 1'ears 1987-89
Co-In.z ntr;Per :,iPIT,                         CounLrr                            1Kr ciCp!ta
horrttvr,                P IUpulJioT C 1JNP IS-  t,r.. c i             Ppul.'io'rl  6N P I4-'
fi<al I"S atI     ~~~~~~lihou;ind4p  XUSW  fi"11 19.s'_N-l       I I hvu;,Tndv  ,L I ,S I
Benin                       4 j13        11t    Le-olho                    I.h29       3"1)
Burk-ina Fc.o               S.112       19In    Ntd,daTJccar              IIi.'*2       1t.,
Burundl                     4.'c4,4     25;0    Nalavi                     .91l        161.1
Camertion                 L0.1i.9        9'11    MM.i                     7.77'4       2 11-
Cape \ erde                   144        5.Iii NIMuriTanid.                I xhi.l     4401
Central African Republic    2.'21)       1 .I I  Maurinu'                  I 0Ps      1.49n'
Ch.Id                       1.2b-        I )ll   Nto'mmbique              14 i         I v-'
Comoro.                      426         9U      Nicer                     h '         261.'
Congo. People t Republic    2.1i1i'      ;'1.i   Nigeri.                  06.';       l't
ol the                                         R%%.,nda                  h.434       311-K
C6te dIhoire               11,126        '41l   'S&o Torrne and Pnrrcipe    I IS       2 in
Diibouti                    3l'n         n a.'  SencoyIl                  t.95II       i2 I
Equutorial Guinea            3b          n.a '    Womah1 1Ilj
Elhiopia                   44.786       130    Sud.-n                    23. I ILI
Gabon                       l .I5n     2.'Ii'  TTnzania                  2T3.XR'i     Nil
Gambia. The                   ''J'        ii    To'o                       3.1.29        il4
Glhana                     131.5')      ^9w'    1hicand.a                 I S,n        26'.'
Gumc-3                      6.4 79       n a'   Z.aire                    32'.il4       ill
Gu,nea-Bi;sau                922         1 61   Zanihia                    ' 213
KenNa                      22 .ii96       i'    Zinbab"v                  9,)44 
N-'rE The 1   ,I.im,1e% o* GNP pzr cdpli, sreinied jlh,.e Jre tomr the E\ arlI DL',elur mtnc IndLa.ilk 1 , n INc Ill rid
f,r .' t  R,. r r  NIN.
n aS Nct.l a IlhIe.
* E,timrnu. lor mid 14s"
k  1  LI; ,',.  A   I  ei,. ,  r r rhL'lui..g% . I V - p.'r:d-J.
c GNP pcr cart. c.nniatid c' be in the I''.'er-n'pddlc-mnc rirm e
d. 1.NP PCi c3pa. e.traited Lto he fn the lu's.o kn-ie ringc
e The (GNP per capia refer, rrc marrl.,nd l n.n.T.n- .'nh



106    1989 Regional Perspectives
capita income, which is estimated to be about  ing signs of growth in output generally well
15 percent below its level of a decade ago.    above the average for the region as a whole and
The region's major source of growth in the   above that achieved in the early 1980s.
past four years has been agriculture, which,     Net official development assistance (ODA)
according to indices of the Food and Agricul-  disbursements to sub-Saharan Africa have in-
ture Organization of the UN (FAO), grew at an  creased, on average, by about 9 percent a year
annual rate of 4 percent in 1985-88. Production  in real terms during 1984-87, compared with
in 1988 was 13 percent higher than what would  2.8 percent a year in the early years of this
have been predicted from an extrapolation of   decade. The region's share in worldwide net
the 197-85 trend rate of growth. As a result,  ODA disbursements has increased from     23
the often-reported decline in per capita agricul-  percent in 1980 to almost 30 percent in 1987;
tural production seems to have been reversed,  the low-income countries in the region re-
although it remains to be seen whether such    ceived $36 per capita in 1987, compared with
growth can continue in the longer term. Higher  $25 in 1983. Adjusting countries, in particular,
production is also reflected in a reversal of the  have received substantially higher increases of
decline in market shares for some agricultural  aid in the past two years. Flows of ODA to
commodities that characterized the 1970s and   countries undertaking adjustment have grown
the early 1980s. Food production rose less     at an annual rate of 20 percent in real terms
sharply, but increased enough to maintain per  during 1985-87, reflecting shifts in donor pref-
capita output.                                 erences and increased cofinancing, including
By the end of fiscal 1989, the number of     cofinancing under the auspices of the special
countries implementing policy reforms to effect  program of assistance (SPA). In addition, the
structural adjustment had increased to nearly  adjusting countries have been the major bene-
thirty. In many countries that have had strong  ficiaries of increased debt relief, including the
and sustained reform programs and which have   special concessionary menu of options agreed
not been affected by strong external shocks, for  to in 1988 at the Toronto economic summit and
example, in The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Mau-    at the September 1988 meeting of the Develop-
ritius, Tanzania, and Togo, there are encourag-  ment Committee.
Table 6-2. Lending to Borrowers in Africa. b% Sector, Fiscal Yt ears 1980-89
irndhIIIn  .1 BLS J,nll,r i
.Xnnual
.,*eraWr
Secl.;r                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~19.S0-4  VWX  198h  191b7  198SX  19S9
.Agriulture anJ Rural
De%clopment                         54I1 1     .0     434 7     '1, 2    5h2.3   '54 9
De- elopmeni Finance LConi:inies       96 -      9 3     S.C.    518 4i    162.i     766
EJudril0n                             11)2 1   119 I    1147 17 04         178.2     pS..
E neref
0Od. eai. and cojal                  -h9      ''        3 I      3)11       _      31.9
Po t% v1r I2 1                                566 h    1' t.    hs 1      8e.l)   13S.4
Industv.                               47 9      6.4    19J3 9      _      15(1.5    bl.4
Nonproieci                            214 4    1-14.2   .1 t.I1  30'.t1   763.1   1.274.(
Po pu., l i on. Helalih. and
NuirlIrirtil                         IS I     64.1    8h1.1     30.b     121.4     81.3
Smill-nI.de Enlerpri-e                 24.6       -                1.(1  I6.(l  -  -'0.0
Technical Als,arnce                    5' 2     '.5       S.4     51.7      Y5'     124 6
Iclecornriunlic,ifln,                  29 4     72.6     46.5     2' 8       -       1i
Tranrnriijrion                        lj6 4    4(19.9   193.3    2'h,'     18.6     24WS 7
lUrhan De,eoprnmeni                     3. h     12.(I  15A11    I11.5     146.5    414.0
Water Suplpl 3nd Se%wraee              6 7     1511.11   19.S     61.8     4.u1     238 2
Total                                I,:h4.5  1597.3  2.li4i,.5  2.13(.7  2.4'X   3A)24
Of uhich IBRI                       92S '    493.6    901l.,    X65 8    -2i     1.566).6
IDA                       l.0388   1.1145.'  . 4.3   1.2131 9  22-103.h  2.3614.1
Nurnhei of oper,fion,                '        °        'S)                         81
N-!TE. Dciailu r".- not :dd 1, U lial- becue of o.ardine.



Africa  107
At
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -s ii1
An agriculture-extension agent offering advice in Burkina Faso. The Bank is giving special emphasis to
agricultural research and extension in sub-Saharan Africa.
Economic policy adjustments continue to be  Subregional Perspectives
complemented by investment programs sup-       West Africa. Despite a decline in oil prices
ported by the Bank. Although the share of   through much of 1988, the oil exporters grew at
adjustment lending in total Bank lending has  an estimated 4.5 percent in 1988. In Nigeria,
inevitably risen as more countries have turned  GDP is estimated to have increased by more
to structural adjustment, about 60 percent of  than 5 percent, reflecting a 9 percent increase
Bank and IDA lending in fiscal 1989 was in  in oil production and a recovery in agriculture.
support of nonadjustment operations.        The striking feature of the Nigerian economy,
A number of adjusting countres are under-  however, was the continued strong perfor-
taking, with donor support, programs to alle-  mance of its manufacturing sector, which, de-
viate the social costs of adjustment and to  spite a 10 percent decline in imports, grew by 5
reduce the incidence of poverty. In many other  percent. This reflected the sector's response to
countries, studies under the social dimension  the new relative prices established by the ma-
of adjustment program are under way. In a   jor overhaul, beginning in 1986, of the coun-
number of regional initiatives started last year  try's exchange rate and trading system. Those
-food security, the environment, education,  refortn measures encouraged a switch to local
agricultural research and extension-progress  import substitutes and to growth in nonoil
has been made. In addition, the acceleration of  exports. These improvements notwithstand-
population growth and the need for building  ing, the shatp depreciation of the exchange
indigenous capacity for policy formulation are  rate that was a major component of the adjust-
receiving increased attention.               ment program resulted in a steep drop in the



108   1989 Regional Perspectives
valuation of gross national product (GNP) per  for most of these countries; education projects
capita, and the Bank reclassified Nigeria as an  were completed for Chad, Mali, and Maurita-
IDA-eligible country in September 1988.    nia in the past year. Another important effort
Nigeria's recent performance is in sharp  rapidly being implemented is directed at im-
contrast to Cameroon, the other major oil  provement of agricultural-extension services.
exporter of the region, where GDP declined by  Following on the successful implementation of
11 percent in real terms in both 1986 and 1987;  such projects elsewhere in Africa, a nation-
it is estimated that GDP fell again in 1988.  wide extension project was approved in fiscal
Although the country has recently attempted  1989 in Burkina Faso, and another for Senegal
to balance its public finances, and although  was appraised following pilot operations in that
some fiscal-restraint measures have been   country. In Mali and Niger, as well, pilot
adopted, it is only beginning to implement the  operations were conducted. Initial results of
kinds of measures that would support the re-  these operations are promising.
sumption of growth in its nonoil sectors.    Among countries of West Africa, Ghana
In the Sahel, six out of eight countries are  continues to perform well. Its economy grew at
now implementing structural-adjustment pro-  over 6 percent in 1988, reflecting continuing
grams, with Chad having started in 1988. Al-  commitment, both by the authorities and do-
though Burkina Faso does not have a formal  nors, to the process of economic reform that
program supported by foreign donors, its gov-  started in 1983. In early 1988, the government
ernment has been taking, since mid 1984, a  authorized the establishment of foreign-ex-
number of adjustment measures. While it is  change bureaus and, in early 1989, abolished
premature to assess the impact of these pro-  import licensing. In Guinea, which started its
grams on economic growth, measures to im-  adjustment program in 1985, GDP grew by 5
prove incentives, combined with favorable  percent in 1988. A significant supply response
weather conditions, are beginning to bear fruit.  to price changes is evident, particularly in
Except for Mali. where agricultural output  agriculture. With the replacement of the cof-
suffered from unfavorable climatic conditions,  fee-marketing parastatal by the private sector,
economic growth accelerated significantly in  producers are receiving a higher price for cof-
all Sahelian countries in 1988, averaging some  fee, and exports have increased dramatically.
6 percent. Real exports increased by more than  In recent months, the government began the
6 percent, on average, in The Gambia, Mauri-  liquidation of the national petroleum company
tania, Niger, and Senegal in 1988. In five  and took steps to reform the civil service. In
Sahelian countries that have been implement-  contrast to these countries, in C6te d'lvoire,
ing measures of structural adjustment for some  per capita GDP fell by around 12 percent in the
time, the budget and current-account deficits  period  1987-88. A  distorted agricultural-
were reduced in the past three years relative to  pricing and marketing system that unduly fa-
GDP. Everywhere the inflation rate has come  vors cocoa against more promising export
down substantially, and prices declined in sev-  crops and high public-sector spending (the
eral cases in 1988.                        fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP rose for
To address the persistent weakness in the  the second year in a row) are major structural
Sahelian governments' capacity for policy-  weaknesses.
making and economic management, extensive    Eastern and Central Afiica.  In Uganda,
institutional and analytical support is being  which is in its second year of adjustment, early
provided for the reform process through IDA-  setbacks in its stabilization program were re-
financed technical-assistance projects in Chad,  versed. During 1988 and early 1989, the cur-
Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Senegal. The  rency was devalued by more than 25 percent in
banking systems in several countries of the  foreign-currency terms, and inflation was re-
Sahel are in considerable disarray, and the  duced from the 1987 level of 250 percent to 55
reestablishment and enhancement of financial-  percent. Other measures included further lib-
intermediation services is a necessary condi-  eralization of imports and the extension of the
tion for the success of structural adjustment.  100 percent export-receipts retention scheme
Thus, IDA supported adjustment operations  to all noncoffee exports. Gross domestic prod-
that emphasize banking-sector reforms, either  uct is estimated to have increased by 4.5 per-
ongoing (Benin, The Gambia, and Mauritania)  cent in 1988. In Kenya, GDP grew by 5 per-
or under preparation (Niger and Senegal).  cent, continuing the increase in per capita
A special priority in the Sahelian countries,  income that has occurred since 1984. The
in view of their generally poor natural-resource  budget deficit decreased by nearly 3 percent-
base, is investment in human-resource devel-  age points of GDP after a sharp increase in
opment. Projects and project components in  1987. The government's sectoral-adjustment
population and education are being prepared  programs remain on track, although the imple-



Africa  109
mentation of import liberalization has been  Development Coordinating Conference,' and
slower than expected. In Mauritius, which  positive per capita income growth was realized
undertook structural adjustment and diversifi-  for the subregion for the first time in a decade.
cation in the late 1970s and early 1980s, GDP  Growth rates in GDP of over 4 percent took
has grown at an annual average rate of 7   place in Botswana, Mozambique, Tanzania,
percent since 1984. Mauritius's adjustment has  Zambia, and Zimbabwe; in Lesotho and
been so successful that it now must contend  Malawi, growth was of a lesser magnitude, but
with a different set of problems: constrained  still positive. This favorable performance can
labor supplies and an excessive concentration  be attributed to four factors: good weather, the
of export activity in garments and textiles.  initial benefits of economic reforms, notably in
Other countries in the subregion performed  Mozambique and Tanzania, growth in donor-
less well. In Sudan, GDP fell by almost 2  financed imports, some of which can be attrib-
percent in the fiscal year ending June 1988. The  uted to the SPA, and, in the case of Zambia, a
August 1988 floods that left about 2 million  terms-of-trade improvement.
people homeless and the continuation of civil  An initial radical reorientation of exchange-
war have diverted both resources and attention  rate and domestic-pricing policies has occurred
away from economic matters. Although the   in Mozambique and Tanzania, and both coun-
government took some partial structural-reform  tries are now embarking on more complex
measures late in 1988, a full economic-reform  second-stage reforms in the areas of trade
program has yet to be implemented. In Ethio-  policy and public-sector management (Mozam-
pia, resurgence of dissident activity, subnormal  bique) and agricultural internal marketing,
rainfall, and a continued fall in export earnings  public-sector management, and the financial
resulted in no growth in GDP and a serious  system (Tanzania). In both these countries, the
decline in external reserves in fiscal 1988. Bet-  exchange rates are now closer to parallel mar-
ter weather, as well as agricultural-pricing and  ket rates and to sustainable levels. In Tanza-
marketing reforms, are expected to revive  nia, decontrol of prices has resulted in less
growth in fiscal 1989. Food aid and exceptional  than 15 percent of the "consumption basket"
mobilization of domestic revenues helped to  remaining under price controls, and the insti-
moderate the country's fiscal balances, which  tution of a scheme that allows importers to use
remain under pressure due to the civil war.  foreign exchange from unofficial sources to
Civil war further disrupted production and  import a wide variety of commodities makes
exports in Somalia, adding to the difficulties  remaining controls irrelevant.
created by the interruption of the adjustment  In Malawi, continued implementation of the
program in September 1987. However, since  adjustment program-a reduction of 2 percent-
July 1988, the government has restored fiscal  age points in the budget deficit as a ratio to
discipline and embarked, once again, on a  GDP, tax reform, and import liberalization
program of adjustment. Legislation has been  -combined with impressive donor support,
enacted to eliminate state monopolies in bank-  contributed to a GDP growth of 3.6 percent in
ing, trade, insurance, and shipping, and a flex-  1988 after only a slight increase in 1987. How-
ible exchange-rate policy has been pursued  ever, the flow of refugees, now numbering
following a major devaluation in July 1988. In  700,000, from  Mozambique continued. Al-
Rwanda, sluggish agricultural growth in 1988  though external aid has met much of the cost of
may have resulted in a decline of per capita  caring for these people, their presence obvi-
income. Depressed world market prices for  ously has a direct impact on the budget and the
coffee had an adverse impact on the balance of  social-services infrastructure.
payments and the budget, despite measures to
control expenditures. In Zaire, the pursuit of  Structural Adjustment: A Medium-term
structural-adjustment reforms slowed down in  Perspective
both 1987 and 1988. The government's failure  The number of adjustment loans approved
to curtail the growth of public expenditures  by the World Bank to the countries in the
resulted in runaway inflation and seriously  region has grown from about five a year in the
hampered economic recovery. At the end of  early 1980s to fifteen a year since 1985. Ex-
1988, however, the government initiated a pro-  change-rate devaluation and trade reforms, in-
gram to bring its expenditures under control  creased producer incentives in agriculture, and
and resumed structural-adjustment reforms,  restructuring of government finance and public
including adjustments in petroleum prices and  enterprises have been the major components of
tariffs for public services.               structural-adjustment programs. Last year's
Southern Africa.  Economic developments
in 1988 have been quite favorable for the   Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique. Swa-
member countries of the Southern African    ziland, Tanzania, Zambia. and Zimbabwe.



110   1989 Regional Perspectives
Annual Report presented the results of a pre-  ress across countries and sectors make it diffi-
liminary analysis of key reform indicators that  cult to draw general conclusions on the effects
showed that countries with strong reform pro-  of these reforms. Nevertheless, evidence sug-
grams had reduced budget deficits, effected  gests that reforms are beginning to lead to
greater real exchange-rate depreciation, and  better  economic  performance.  In  those
increased agricultural price incentives more  strongly adjusting countries that have not been
than those with weak or no reform programs.  subjected to severe external shocks (both pos-
Further analysis contained in a recent study of  itive and negative), such as unusual weather or
adjustment and growth in Africa has confirmed  change in terms of trade, there is evidence that
the results of the preliminary analysis.2    growth of output, exports, and per capita con-
In some countries, exchange-rate changes   sumption during 1985-87 was somewhat higher
have resulted from the introduction of foreign-  than in those countries with weak or no reform
exchange auctions (The Gambia, Ghana, and    programs (see Table 6-3).
Guinea, for example); in others, they have     Reforms in strongly adjusting countries have
taken place through discrete devaluations    been supported by multilateral and bilateral
(Madagascar, Tanzania, and Uganda). In the   donors, which have gradually but significantly
latter group, efforts have been made to intro-  shifted their aid flows to give greater support to
duce some degree of automaticity and trans-  such countries. They have also increased the
parency in the allocation of foreign exchange  annual amount of debt relief by some 50 per-
through, for example, open general licensing  cent in 1986-87 compared with the previous six
and other special schemes for importers and  years. As a result of this external support,
exporters.3 In most countries, agricultural pro-  reforming countries have been able to increase
ducer prices are officially fixed, but these  their imports, investment, and consumption.
prices have been raised to a level higher than  Views on the development challenges facing
the rate of inflation by reducing taxes, improv-  Africa, particularly on the current structural-
ing efficiency of marketing agencies, or passing  adjustment programs being implemented by
on the effects of devaluation. Other countries  many African governments, were exchanged at
(Guinea, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Niger,    a May 1989 meeting at the Bank by officials of
Nigeria, and Somalia) have liberalized their  the Bank, several major United Nations agen-
policies-either by eliminating fixed pricing  cies, the Organization of African Unity, and
and/or by permitting private trade to market  the African Development Bank.
the crops. In almost all cases, real prices that  While not unanimously in agreement on all
farmers receive have increased.              points, all participants emphasized that policy
The most significant measures to reduce    reforms, whatever their form, must be relevant
public spending have included a relative reduc-  to specific country situations, must be de-
tion in wages and salaries, while spending on  signed, implemented, and owned by the African
education and health has remained fairly     countries themselves, and that adjustment must
steady (but low) at around 14 percent and 5  take full account of the human dimension.
percent, respectively, of total expenditures.
Because of the rising share of interest pay-  Addressing the Social Costs
ments, however, the share of governments'    of Adjustment
purchases of goods and services-crucial to     In recent years, there has been growing
maintaining the productivity of public services  concern about the social costs of adjustment
-has declined. Fiscal revenue has generally  programs. While many economic reforms help
stagnated or diminished, while foreign official  the poor-increases in farm producer prices,
budgetary support has increased. Analysis of a  for example-there is no doubt that many
sample of countries shows that during 1985-87,  vulnerable groups are adversely affected in the
public-enterprise reforms have been imple-   short run. Further, past economic policies and
mented through privatization (in nineteen    country circumstances have often left pockets
countries affecting eighty enterprises), liquida-  of poverty untouched. In response to these
tion (thirteen countries affecting seventy-eight  concerns, a number of countries are formulat-
enterprises), rehabilitation  (fifty-six  enter-  ing, and many are implementing, special action
prises in fifteen countries), and other measures
such as increasing the prices charged by para-  2 World Bank and United Nations Development Pro-
statals, adoption of performance and manage-  gramme, Africa's Adjustment and Growth (Washington.
ment contracts, and the granting of greater   D.C., 1989).
autonomy to enterprise management.            These schemes include, for example, the retention of
The severity of economic problems, the vul-  foreign-exchange earnings by exporters and allocation of
foreign exchange on a first-come, first-served basis (as in
nerability to external factors, the time required  Uganda) and the use of foreign exchange from unofficial
for reforms to bear fruit, and the uneven prog-  sources (as in Tanzania).



Africa  111
Table 6-3. Summarv of Economic Performance Indicalors for sub-Saharan African
Countries
i:.%erafle annufl percenFJge change
C-,unirie not
II ...,nit ic         ioII.ed b~i *roni *ho.l-
Wah  [i.rong  'a  h  -!A o,  ' - h r ,-n ' iih  .% vak o'.
no rel"'rn, ~ rek.for-r  r,[c)eform
Indaitc.r         Perucd   r.mr;orr. .. rerjrn,       prograrII     pr.o amrnn
Gromh of GDP iconvan1   I%Ijni4       1 4         1.           1.,           11i
19'.i' priceI         I9%i 45'      2                         3 2  3         I .8
Agricultural prn.duciion  I 9$(I- 1 1            1.3           I 4           I.s
2"xi^'  ' h   1.' 3I4                    2.6
Growth of export volume  I9XL1-_-4   - I 3       - x. I        -7: 7         -
19854'1'     4            ".2           49           -3.3
Grovwth of Import %olunie.  19xs-87   I          _        -     6 I          -4.t1
ewludin oil exporters               4.S
Growth of rcjl -Jome%iic  19810-    - i.         -        .'   -it
in'esimenT            19Y5-X7      -11.9       -7.ii          I 9
Gross domeuti %i'na;    19l2-S4 4     ').Q        '.                          11.9
ipercenrage otf GDP)   198(-87     III.-        6.11         II 7E
Gro%%ih of per capr-     I9SII_-X   -2*          - I I         -2.4          -1
consumption Ireali     I "8-87     -ti.4       -l}           1U. .         -tl 9
NOTE C(untri *o%er.,ee ,rie, be ,rndc.r.r deprndc r ..n -Ihblk J a . ner the enurL rerild  Atcr r ,d .Xrge. icr
unweighied ecepi .! nk-teL3d  Or %th r,at; are o3mr[lued ul,n. ]b -i -e..- rc.  Period,  re ,rD'iu,i%e
NOitiCR P .WorlJ Bjnk dr, fI.l  . F XAII pr.oxuctin J..i , [ p, L IN rrAde d,r.  .. [eIrn
programs targeted on the poor, in parallel with  ment of microenterprises. In Guinea-Bissau,
structural-adjustment programs. One of the  Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe, Soma-
earliest action programs to be prepared was in  lia, Tanzania, and Uganda, similar programs
Ghana (the components of which were dis-    are in various stages of preparation.
cussed in last year's Annual Report); this has  While Bank staff have played a key role in
begun to be implemented after some initial   helping the governments to prepare these pro-
delays were overcome and donors converted   grams, other UN agencies, such as the United
their pledges into firm commitments.        Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations
The social dimensions of adjustment (SDA)  Development Programme (UNDP), and the
program, which was launched in 1987, is pro-  International Labour Organisation, as well as
viding support for the formulation of such  bilateral and multilateral donors, have also
programs, preparation of poverty profiles, and  participated closely and are funding large parts
identification of policy issues for the design of  of the programs.
poverty-reduction strategies and institutional  These poverty programs are generally mul-
development. To date, twenty-six countries in  tisectoral, community-based, and decentral-
the region have requested to participate in the  ized, covering many of the disadvantaged
program.                                    groups in the countries. More specific inter-
In Madagascar, for instance, implementation  ventions to address the problems of retrenched
has started of programs to rehabilitate workers  public-sector employees are also being formu-
laid off from public enterprises, labor-intensive  lated and implemented in a number of coun-
public works, a nationwide antimalaria pro-  tries. The civil-service resettlement program in
gram, pilot food-security projects, and support  The Gambia, a redeployment fund for public-
to family-planning services through nongov-  sector employees and civil servants in Mali,
ernmental organizations. In Cameroon, the   Mauritania, and Senegal, and special schemes
government is fully integrating social dimen-  for civil servants leaving the public service in
sions in its adjustment program by reorienting  Guinea are some examples.
policies in the health and education sectors and
establishing specific action programs to reduce  Longer-term Issues
the costs of adjustment. The action program   While the Bank has devoted substantial staff
currently being prepared in Chad includes, in  and financial resources to the problems of
particular, a program to promote the develop-  adjustment, the bulk of its efforts continues to



112   1989 Regional Perspectives
Table 64. Nel lTransfers to Arrica
,l, L  .1  .t1js  1 11. , ii ,!,i v
Nigeria          E E h io pi       Zaire          roai re.ein
llen, ~     ~~~~~~~ 1489  19.i_i19  lw4cp  I"M8O' I %9S  19hi-39  INJSW1  1 9bh i_N9
113RD ;,nd IDlA
-mniIrn I I  I .mSn.f 6 1 .5S$8.3  I1 -.O1  q45'  114 .7  hill I  1 9242v  1I.3S9 2
(3rov
dCi-bureemcn[k  41 '   1.725 Y   -' l    .1l.4  lith 3   44 ; 4     i'.".'  9.44'.S
Rep.a\ nivnil    2lI,h    5n.4    14 -1    i4.6    III 9    33       6 23.4 3.11l.
Net
dishurimeni,    1-hI 9  I.1h6 4  fi.    25.5     95.4    3.2 I   I.        .311.6
Iraere;it and
..hi rges       12;. .2 i  xi9.4   . 1   41.5     S.>     4'        1'.0   2.S78.1
Net Lr3n,er      I 34.9i  35' 11  ;4 4    '11.3   Is t     339 Q    b'tn'   4.455.6
\   *-TF  LDis-ur,.,rm-ni' lr,. n he ID) A SpoalI Fund  rc ininided  The counine, ,hoi n in ihe tnhle ,re ihoe  ith ihc Ijreef i
r.p!ijiirn  T he tecion.,I  1.iA- . .n ,ude  urnerl bO,-iO - erl  rll; . Dk'..II. n-  A,dd 1... N.'TAI  hC.'C.,u,e .1 rodrnding
focus on issues of long-term development. In  late the consensus into effective action pro-
addition  to strengthening  its investment-  grams. As part of this effort, the Bank and
lending program, the Bank is giving special  other multilateral donors (the United Nations
emphasis to several areas that need urgent  Fund for Population Activities, the Interna-
attention: population, environment, agricul-  tional Planned Parenthood Federation, and the
tural research and extension, food security.  World Health Organization) have launched an
education, and institution building.        initiative to support African institutions to de-
A task force was set up in fiscal 1988 to  velop an agenda for action for the 1990s. For
examine ways to deal directly with malnutri-  this purpose, an African Population Advisory
tion, both chronic and transitory, in the coun-  Committee has been formed. In addition, to
tries of Africa. Its report, completed in fiscal  enhance the internal capacity of the Bank, a
1989 and discussed with concerned donors, has  task force has been constituted to recommend
resulted in considerable staff resources being  actions to expand population activities, includ-
devoted to the development of action programs  ing analytical work and lending to the sector. A
in eight priority countries (Benin, Burkina  second regional conference on "safe mother-
Faso, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mozam-     hood" (the first was held in Nairobi in 1987)
bique, Nigeria, and Sudan). Although the com-  was sponsored by the Bank in Niger early in
position of these action plans is likely to vary  1989, and the participants, who included polit-
depending on country needs, a number of    ical leaders, nongovernmental organizations,
areas, such as marketing and storage, income  and donors, reiterated the urgent need for
generation for the poor, nutritional education,  accelerated action in the related areas of reduc-
early-warning facilities, pricing and planning of  tion in maternal mortality and morbidity.
food aid, and pilot interventions to reach the  Many African countries are experiencing an
poor, would be covered. In addition, a study of  alarming rate of desertification. deforestation,
food aid is being made, jointly with the World  groundwater loss, and air and water pollution.
Food Programme, to find ways of improving   The Bank is trying to build a multisectoral
the effectiveness of food aid.              environmental focus in its operational work.
Africa's population is growing at more than 3  One aim is to obtain accurate data on the
percent a year, and unless fertility rates are  changing status of natural resources; a second
brought down, many countries will approach a  is to understand better the behavioral and
rate of 4 percent a year. While the difficulty of  technical factors that influence the use of nat-
accommodating rapid population growth is ob-  ural resources; and a third is to develop and
vious at the national level, households often  promote more efficient technologies for such
perceive large families to be economically ben-  use. Seven country environmental action plans
eficial. A major objective of the Bank's efforts  (EAPs) were launched in fiscal 1988 and 1989
in the area of family planning is to generate a  (Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guinea, Lesotho, Mad-
consensus among opinion leaders, the public,  agascar, Mauritius, and Rwanda), of which
and in governments on the need for a vigorous  three (Lesotho, Madagascar, and Mauritius)
family-planning program  that includes de-  were completed during the past year. The EAP
mand-generation activities and to help trans-  in Madagascar has paved the way for a major



Africa  113
investment-the Environment I project.4 Sim-  and examination systems. Parallel to this effort,
ilarly, in Mauritius, the EAP has generated  the World Bank is in the early stages of launch-
strong donor support. In addition, several re-  ing an initiative to strengthen African capacity
gional studies have also been started in areas  for economic policy analysis and management.
such as remote sensing, management and mon-  It cohosted, with the Rockefeller Foundation. a
itoring of changes in environmental resources,  meeting of African leaders and donors to dis-
agroforestry, and other related areas.      cuss the best approach, and is participating in
In the area of education, over a dozen coun-  consortia that provide support to Africans un-
tries are either implementing education-sector  dertaking research on economic issues. An-
programs or are planning for programs in the  other important effort involves strengthening
near future. Following up on the publication of  local consulting capacity in Africa. With sup-
the Bank's education policy paper in 1988,5  port from other UN agencies and the Nether-
twenty-five donors to African education have  lands, the Bank is assisting in the preparation of
agreed to improve coordination of their finan-  action plans for C6te d'Ivoire, the People's
cial assistance to educational programs. In ad-  Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Madagascar,
dition to establishing an information system on  Mauritius, Senegal, and Tanzania.
donor assistance, working groups have been
formed to assist governments to develop na-
tional education strategies, improve educational  4 For details, see page 51.
statistics, increase the quality and availability of  5World Bank, Edutcation in Sub-Saharan Africa (Washing-
textbooks, and upgrade the quality of teaching  ton, D.C.. 1988).



114   1989 Regional Perspectives
Asia
The economic expansion that marked the     central role, with export volume expanding by
performance of many Asian countries in both  over 9 percent in 1988. High rates of investment
1987 and 1988 continued into 1989. Growth in  have also contributed to vigorous growth, espe-
gross domestic product (GDP) for Asian devel-  cially in East Asia, where fixed investment
oping countries was 9.3 percent in 1988 and is  grew by over 12 percent in 1988.
projected at 7.6 percent for 1989. Many coun-  The dynamism of these Asian economies
tries, propelled by a consistent record of mac-  co-exists with severe economic, social, and
roeconomic stability and an enduring commit-  environmental problems, which deserve, and
ment to undertake structural economic reforms,  are receiving, more concerted attention from
have shared in this growth. Trade has played a  governments. In what might be termed a
"second Asia," over half of the developing
world's poor, some 500 million people, strug-
gle to survive on incomes below the poverty
Table 6-5. Asia: 1987 Population and        line. Although economic growth has been the
Per Capita GNP or Counlry Borrowers.        primary factor in the reduced incidence of
Fiscal t'ears 1987-89                       poverty in Asian countries, the continuing high
rates of population increase have applied re-
borroir     ~         P'1rlition G  1apr1'7'  lentless pressure on natural resources and have
flcai A               lioun,und;li  iL'SSi  helped block any significant reduction in the
Bangladesh              Iuh.)%      I       numbers of the poor.
Bhuitan                   1.343    1511
China                  I 68.543 U29n1       Structural Reform and Economic Growth
Fiji                       71'    1.5 70      In many countries of Asia, economic man-
India                  '97 5'6     31)t     agement is distinguished by two important
Indonesiu               171.443    450      characteristics: prudent macroeconomic man-
Korea. RepuLblic ol     42.0182   2.69(1    agement and an ongoing process of structural
Lao People ; Democr.ltic                    reform. The former can be seen in the success-
Republic                x.78      I       ful avoidance of macroeconomic imbalances in
Nfala% ii                I6.52i^  1.81(1     most Asian countries, where low rates of infla-
INIaldi% es                19'i    3O0)     tion, modest fiscal deficits, and manageable
W,.anrnar-                9.27'    n.a.:    levels of external debt generally apply. Under-
Nepal                    17.i91    1609     lying and complementing this macro stability
Paptia Ne%% Guinea        1.7%14   701J     of Asian countries is the attention paid by
Philippine,,            'p1.419    590      many governments to emerging structural
Sn Lanka                 16.3h61   40'      problems in their economies and the continu-
Thailand                 53.F.l    S5IJ     ing efforts to correct them through economic
1 ongf                     I(910   i20      policy reform. In other countries that are con-
s inuaiu                   1511   nflj.d    tending with financial crisis and severe macro
We,tern Samoa              1A6     55o      imbalances, these structural changes are nec-
Noii, The 14\7 e,limalev oi GNP per capaa r.rc5entei  essarily compressed into shorter time frames
abo%e :ire from ihe World Detelopmeni Indicaiors in  and supported by programs of structural ad-
the Ll',DJ P.o , pm.wfll Rtpe.,i /'.Y4      justment. Over the past year, the reform pro-
na Nm dtailhic                             cess and expanding international and regional
a, E I.r frofr mid 114:'                    trade have helped a number of Asian countries
b  It,Sr/ Bir .J1 -I.. mr[.thodokql I'5i47 hje period.  either to meet or exceed expectations in terms
v F.rnierI BTjrm.                           of their growth performance.
J. t.NF' pet cxPiia -imdietd to o.e in the lo.-,ncoine  Since 1986, the economies of both Thailand
rans-e.                                     and the Republic of Korea have experienced



Asia  115
boom conditions due, in large part, to their  currency fluctuations and the composition of
timely adjustments to external conditions over  the external debt). In response, the govern-
a substantial period of time. For Thailand, the  ment has taken decisive actions to restrain
initial stimulus came from surging exports of  domestic demand. mobilize additional re-
manufactures (34 percent growth in 1987),  sources, and set in train the structural changes
which has since led to a major increase in  needed to develop the nonoil economy.
investment. Private fixed investment rose 23  The economy has responded strongly to
percent in 1988, and GDP growth accelerated  these reforms. Gross domestic product in-
by a record 11 percent. In Korea, GDP growth  creased by 4.7 percent in 1988, with the nonoil
for 1988 was at 11.3 percent, with exports  economy increasing by 5.6 percent. Nonoil
expanding at a 13.1 percent rate. Both coun-  exports have underpinned the economy's
tries are encountering some constraints to fur-  growth performance, totaling around $12.1 bil-
ther double-digit growth, such as transporta-  lion in Indonesia's 1989 fiscal year (ending
tion and other infrastructural bottlenecks in  March 31, 1989), compared with $6.7 billion in
Thailand, and growing labor problems, trade  fiscal 1987-a real growth rate of 20 percent
difficulties, and some inflationary pressures in  annually over the past two years. While com-
Korea.                                    modity exports, such as palm oil and shrimp,
In Malaysia, growth has also been strong.  have performed strongly, two thirds of the
Real GDP growth was close to 9 percent in  increase was due to manufactured exports,
1988, and only a slight moderation of this rate  reflecting substantial gains across a broad
is expected in 1989. Growth in manufacturing  range of manufactured goods. Because of this
has been particularly robust (18 percent growth  strong nonoil export performance, the govern-
in 1988, 14 percent forecast for 1989). Evi-  ment succeeded in further reducing the cur-
dence of the important structural changes that  rent-account deficit from about 5.9 percent of
have been taking place in the economy is  gross national product (GNP) in fiscal 1987 to
provided by the fact that manufactures now  2.5 percent in fiscal 1989.
represent over 50 percent of Malaysia's export  The government also undertook measures to
trade. Recent growth has also become more  deregulate further the economy in three key
broad-based, with domestic demand becoming  areas. Two major packages of reforms in the
significant. As in previous decades, the impor-  financial sector were announced at the end of
tant challenge for Malaysia is to sustain re-  1988 that provide for greater competition in the
spectable rates of economic growth that also  banking system and promote the development
takes into account the need for equitable dis-  of capital markets. Another major set of re-
tribution.                                forms was announced in trade policy and in-
The Philippines, which has begun implemen-  cluded the removal of import-licensing restric-
tation of a serious program of structural re-  tions in areas such as plastics, fertilizers, and
form, has staged a remarkable and unexpect-  agricultural products. Regulatory impediments
edly vigorous economic recovery. Following  have been reduced, thus easing the bias against
the severe recession of 1983-85, GDP regis-  foreign investment and making the local-con-
tered a positive growth of 4.7 percent in 1987  tent programs more flexible. In May 1989, the
and further accelerated in 1988 to almost 7  government converted the "investment prior-
percent despite poor performance in agricul-  ity list" to a short negative list, thereby in-
ture and a large external debt burden of about  creasing the transparency of the system and
$29 billion. Public-sector deficits were held to  opening up new sectors to domestic and for-
3.4 percent of GDP in 1988, and inflation is  eign investment. Finally, wide-ranging reforms
running below 9 percent a year. Despite this  in the maritime sector removed virtually all
recent macroeconomic progress, the Philip-  restrictions on entry by domestic and foreign
pines continues to face structural difficulties in  shipping lines. These reforms result from the
such areas as the low level of savings and tax  government's conscious strategy to expand the
collection, a rapidly growing population, and  role of the private sector and remove con-
severe problems of poverty and unemploy-  straints on private-sector development.
ment. The government is well aware of these  Although still a very poor country and the
issues and their potential effect on the sustain-  victim of a major earthquake in August 1988,
ability of the recovery.                  Nepal's economic performance has improved,
Since the early 1980s, the Indonesian econ-  and the country's structural-adjustment and
omy has been buffeted by a severe deteriora-  development programs have remained on
tion in the external terms of trade (primarily  track. Led by a strong recovery in agriculture,
caused by the collapse of oil prices) and a  GDP grew by 7 percent during Nepal's 1988
rising debt-service burden (resulting in large  fiscal year, and exports rose by more than 20
part from the adverse effects of international  percent in volume terms. Public-revenue re-



116   1989 Regional Perspectives
forms and increased aid disbursements in sup-  sectoral and macroeconomic issues. In the
port of the country's adjustment program re-   Philippines, the Bank financed a financial-
sulted in a much stronger fiscal position and  sector adjustment program with a loan of $300
contributed to a continued build-up of re-     million and completed important studies in
serves. However, with the expiration of the    education, energy, and municipal management
bilateral trade and transit treaties with India in  and finance. Similarly, in Indonesia, a private-
March 1989, Nepal's external trade was se-     sector development loan was designed to sup-
verely constrained, posing potential problems  port key structural reforms, and operations in
for economic growth and the pace of reform.    industry, energy, agriculture, and health will
In another poor Himalayan country, Bhutan,   finance improvements in efficiency and needed
the economy continued to grow rapidly during   expansion in infrastructure. In Nepal, IDA ap-
1988 following completion of a large hy-       proved a second structural-adjustment credit
dropower plant. Gross domestic product is      last year to support continuing improvements in
estimated to have increased by 25 percent over  macroeconomic management.
the past two years. The government recently
published its sixth five-year plan, which re-  Reform Challenges in India and China
ceived strong support from donors.               The two largest economies in Asia, China
The World Bank's lending and analytical      and India, are undertaking distinctive pro-
work has contributed significantly to structural  grams of structural reform, and both have
reform programs in Asia, while also addressing  enjoyed positive growth outcomes. But over
investment needs. In Thailand, for example,    the past year, these two countries have also
the Bank last year supported operations in the  experienced significant macroeconomic imbal-
highway sector and in power-system develop-    ances.
ment. Malaysia and Korea also received Bank      The impact of the almost total failure of the
support for investments in key sectors such as  1987 monsoon on India's economy has turned
agriculture, transportation, industry, and edu-  out to have been much less severe than had
cation. For countries following more concen-   been feared. Overall GDP growth in India's
trated programs of reform under difficult exter-  1988 fiscal year (ending March 31, 1988) is now
nal conditions, the Bank directed support to   estimated to have been about 3.6 percent,
Table 6-6. Lending to Borrowers in Asia, by Seclor, Fiscal Y'ears 198089
, milliorn *.- Lf US dolix M 
xnnual
.1' er:.ye
Seitur             19YtSb4   lSb's      19Sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~C4gf  19>,  Nv 1'lb   'IW.
Apriculture and Rurdl
Developmen.                  1.4I5.4   1.943 0   1,h621.5   81-.'   1.4%6.3   1.162 0
De%elopment Finance Companies     312 2     '24.U    376h      3o12.0       -     1102.8
Education                         299.2    45h 4     491.4        -      35i.7     484 5
Energp
Oil. pa!. and coal              504.4     S94 0      9' 0     52(.Il      iIi     340.0
Ptw er                        1.10,.1     89.93.0  1.155.5  1,92b.8   1019S.9   1,993.5
lndustr,                          214.b    456.0)     502.2     19.4     h32 I      n5h 56
Noinpro,iect                      378.2     3(1.0    200.0     8W.       500 iJ    452.5
Populanton. HealLh. and NuLrition  bi.(1.   A5.0     242.4        -       74 5      9(0.2
Small-scale Enterprie             12  8    I 7(1.r   74.5      166.5    ISi 0      16U.0
Technical Akiidnce                 1 2.6      -        '(1.11   J(I.7       -         -
TelecommnLniwdtion,              I12.9      h6.0       3.9     359.5        -        12.'
Iransporiation                    644.5    7.I9.9    97i.'     44U'.1   1.486 3   1.1 3h.8
Lirman De'.elopmenL              I(3.6     218.5     SiJly.     317 (1  1.1i5 8     41 5
Water Supplk and Seuerage         132.4     17..0    29U.3      N.ti4.
iwi 5.5.s9.2                              5.981 1 J 6.i46.u   6.7'3-'    .669 h   '. 32.5
C1 xhl,-h 1BRD                i,627 1   4,39u.3   4.845.0   4,29'J.4  j.7 1 .   5i.57.1
ID\                   1.9h2 1   1,591.1  1,'(11    1.4-.3    1.918.)   2.175.4
Number of Operation     ~        7If      68         69        57       65         62
Nr.rE Der.k m-. noi .ldd to iial, br.:ute of roand;ng



Asia  117
- S|               __                 g                  _     |hP
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
At a rubber-processing laboratory in Thailand, where GDP growth in 1988 registered a robust 11 percent.
highlighting the resilience of the economy, and  low-growth syndrome that had characterized
of the agricultural sector in particular, and the  much of its post-independence period.
success of government programs to protect     The major challenges to economic manage-
incomes and cushion the effects of drought.  ment come from a difficult balance-of-pay-
In India's 1989 fiscal year, an excellent mon-  ments situation and continuing strain on public
soon led to an extremely strong economic    finances. On the fiscal side, the government
recovery. Agricultural production is expected  recognizes that the current level of the deficit is
to have grown by between 17 percent and 20   unsustainably large and that progress must be
percent and industrial production by about 9  achieved in arresting the trend toward rising
percent. As a result, GDP is likely to rise by  budget deficits, which have climbed from an
about 9 percent. The upsurge in economic     average of 6.1 percent of GDP in the early 1980s
activity means that India, in all probability,  to nearly 9 percent in the first three years of the
will surpass the 5 percent growth target of the  seventh-plan period. In this respect, the fiscal
seventh plan (1986-90), thus confirming that  1990 budget, which programs a substantial re-
the country has indeed broken free of the    duction in the deficit, is particularly welcome.



118   1989 Regional Perspectives
As to the balance of payments, India's fiscal  served to keep alive grassroots support for
1989 import needs, fueled by the drought and  China's reform program, such high rates of
surging industrial growth, have resulted in a  growth have clearly pushed the economy to the
rise in the current-account deficit from about  limits of its productive capacity. With invest-
$4.7 billion (2 percent of GDP) to $5.6 billion  ment as a percentage of GDP approaching 40
(2.2 percent of GDP). This rise was a major  percent in 1988 and consumption demand ris-
factor behind increased recourse to noncon-  ing by over 10 percent in real terms, shortages
cessional sources of finance in fiscal 1988, a  of energy, building materials, basic metals, and
shift accentuated by the severe constraints in  certain foodstuffs have become steadily more
the availability of concessional aid during the  acute and resulted in spiraling prices. The
1980s. India's nonconcessional external debt  annual increase in the retail price index tripled
outstanding increased from about 19 percent of  between 1986 and 1988, from 6.0 percent to
total medium- and long-term debt in 1985-86 to  18.5 percent.
about 23 percent in 1987-88.                Although the economy departed substan-
While India's macroeconomic balances    tially from the more stable price regime of
show some signs of strain, the situation is not  earlier years, those macroeconomic imbal-
unmanageable. Inflation remains in the single-  ances that had become very marked in 1985
digit range, foreign-exchange reserves are  were rectified. A balance-of-payments deficit
equivalent to 2.6 months of imports, and the  on current account, equivalent to 4.6 percent
debt-service ratio, at 25 percent, is not high by  of GDP, had been completely erased by 1987
international standards. Interest payments are  through an increase in domestic savings. Rap-
equivalent to only 0.5 percent of GDP.    idly growing exports of textiles, machinery,
Given the acceleration of economic growth,  foodstuffs, and metal products, together with
it will be possible for the government to aim at  curbs on imports, were instrumental in narrow-
a 6 percent growth target for the eighth-plan  ing the trade deficit to $3.8 billion from nearly
period (1991-95). However, tighter control of  $15 billion in 1985. Net medium- and long-term
domestic demand, especially more stringent  external borrowing, which climbed to $4 billion
fiscal management, will be necessary to avert  in 1985, also slowed, to $2.77 billion in 1987,
inflationary pressures that can jeopardize  thus stabilizing the debt-service ratio at 10.4
achievement of growth targets. Also crucial  percent. The estimated current-account deficit
will be the continuation of the steady progress  for 1988 was a modest 0.4 percent of GDP,
in industrial and trade reforms. The govern-  despite sharply rising demand for imports.
ment, for example, has streamlined procedures  While robust economic performance is a
for approving industrial investments, eased  source of satisfaction for Chinese policymak-
licensing and entry requirements for large  ers, widespread public concern over inflation
firms, and reduced the number of products  has induced the government to launch a stabi-
reserved for manufacture by small firms. Of  lization drive and to moderate certain aspects
particular importance for the future will be a  of the reform program. To regain price stability
more concerted assault on protectionist barri-  over the medium term, a series of administra-
ers in the trade regime.                  tive, monetary, and fiscal measures has been
In China, structural reforms have accom-  introduced. Administrative reduction of in-
plished a great deal in moving the economy  vestment spending by state entities attempts to
towards market responsiveness, but the most  reach the root of the demand pressures. Con-
difficult part of the reform process lies ahead.  trol over monetary expansion and higher inter-
The stunning economic results of promoting  est rates reinforce the curbs on spending
private enterprise in agriculture and decentral-  throughout the economy. Finally, efforts are
izing decisionmaking to urban enterprises have  being made to augment tax revenues and com-
brought with them more fundamental problems  press the budget deficit, which, at about 2
relating to the management of investment in an  percent of GDP in 1988, also fuels demand in
economy based on public ownership of capital.  the economy.
Nonetheless, China's economy has advanced   These actions should push growth closer to
with remarkable speed in recent years.    sustainable levels and gradually moderate in-
China's GDP growth rates have accelerated  flationary pressures. By deferring certain
from 7.9 percent in 1986 to 11.2 percent in  planned price reforms, the government expects
1988. Industry, which expanded by 18 percent  to reinforce its macroeconomic policies and
in 1988, has provided much of the impetus.  dampen expectations regarding future price
Agricultural output, by comparison, grew only  trends. A continuation of enterprise and finan-
by 3.5 percent. While the rising tempo of  cial reforms should also improve the efficiency
economic activity has raised the living stan-  and the prospects of rapid growth with price
dards of the broad mass of the population and  stability.



Asia  119
The Bank's operational activity in China and  stabilize food prices, increase the fall and winter
India continued to be substantial in fiscal 1989:  crop production, and repair and rehabilitate
India received IBRD and IDA support for   infrastructure. The government's agricultural-
eleven projects, with an emphasis on hydro-  rehabilitation program helped the exceptionally
power, agriculture, and transport. The Nathpa  resilient Bangladeshi people produce a good
Jhakri hydroelectric project merits special at-  winter rice crop-overall, foodgrain production
tention as a high-return, environmentally  will not be far short of normal levels. However,
sound power project with an innovative ap-  if following last year's unprecedented flood the
proach to utility pricing. An export-develop-  country had not suffered from, successively, a
ment credit is addressing outstanding policy  cyclone, drought, and tornados, foodgrain pro-
issues, while operations in health and family  duction would have been much higher. Other
planning and education are aimed at social  crops also suffered setbacks due to natural
problems.                                 calamities.
For China during the past year, the Bank  While foodgrain production held up remark-
completed work on two major economic re-  ably well, there were disruptions to production
ports. A country economic memorandum ana-  in other sectors. Economic growth is estimated
lyzed the sources of the current inflation prob-  to have been around only 2 percent. Although
lems and their implications for the reform  imports of foodgrain and materials for recon-
process, and a tax report examined options for  struction increased, the depressed economic
fiscal reform and the greater use of taxes as  situation kept import demand down, and re-
incentives for production and growth.     serves rose substantially. Partly due to these
The Bank's lending program to China con-  disruptions, the gains made in the early 1980s
tinued to address both growth and social sec-  in the fight against poverty appear to have been
tors. Two more provincial agriculture projects  reversed in the past two years. The central
aim at improving rural productivity and ex-  challenge now facing the government is to
panding food production. An industry project  revive the economy and accelerate growth and
in Tianjin is supporting efforts to restructure  development, including the key agricultural
key industries, while an operation with the  sector, which accounts for half of GDP. A
China Investment Bank supports further ef-  comprehensive report prepared by the United
forts to modernize medium-sized state enter-  Nations Development Programme on how ag-
prises. Two ports projects, two provincial  ricultural growth could be rejuvenated was
highways projects, and a railway project in  discussed in a special aid-group meeting
Inner Mongolia will help address important  chaired by the Bank.
transport bottlenecks. A textbook-develop-  Uncertainties continue to affect Sri Lanka's
ment project will increase the volume and  economic performance. As a result, recon-
improve the quality of textbooks at all levels of  struction activity was modest, GDP growth in
education, and a health project in three regions  1988 was 2.7 percent in real terms, the fiscal
will help find new, more cost-effective ap-  deficit, inflation, and unemployment began to
proaches to medical care and give increased  worsen, and foreign-exchange reserves to
emphasis to preventive medicine.          show an adverse trend. The government has
indicated that it remains committed to eco-
Modest Growth in Several Low-income       nomic reforms, and the Bank and other donors
Countries                                 are working actively with it to improve policies
Natural disasters and political disturbances  in trade, public enterprises, and public-sector
have impeded development efforts in several  management.
low-income countries in South and Southeast  The economic performance of Laos, the
Asia during the past year. Severe floods dev-  poorest country in Southeast Asia, has been
astated the economy of Bangladesh; civil strife  mixed because of droughts during the past two
disrupted the economies of Sri Lanka and  years. Real GDP fell by an estimated 2.5 per-
Myanmar (formerly Burma); and the Lao Peo-  cent in 1987, and is estimated to have recov-
ple's Democratic Republic endured a second  ered by only 2 percent in 1988. Over the past
year of drought.                          few years, the government has undertaken a
Bangladesh, for the second consecutive year,  program of wide-ranging economic reforms to
suffered severe flooding. Nearly 85 percent of  liberalize and restructure the economy for
the land area was inundated during the floods of  more rapid growth. Early results are positive:
August and September 1988. Forty-five million  Inflation slowed down considerably, from 115
people were affected, and crops and infrastruc-  percent in 1985 to 7 percent in 1988, and there
ture were extensively damaged. The govern-  has been a shift in relative prices in favor of
ment responded to this crisis by initiating pro-  agriculture, thus improving the condition of the
grams to ensure food security through imports,  poorer, rural population. Exports of log and



120   1989 Regional Perspectives
Table 6-7. Nel Transrers to Asia
,mnI Iion - of LIS dotl a, I1>! -r
C~h,na            lnd,.i          Indone qj        Toial reg.in
tsir! ~     ~~~~~~~  JQ iM 1>_x9  4S' P) 1siO   Nl)    1 9S i - -9  19S9 f 19.MO_9C
IBRD and IDA
commitfrrenov  1.3348   6. 704.5  1.1166  13.i421  1.640.4  6.17S.'  7.,Y32 5  147&)- .
Gros
disbursement,  I '1_ .9  3.611 0.4  2.3x9  I  i 5IF) 1  1 .476.'  56.5 '    14 .172 '   6
Rtpa% rmenzm      41    AI> it     179 6   1.4 1'.(A  450.9  I 4il.l'  2.9R8.4  8.979.5
N et
disbur-enieni,  1. 19'2.'  .444.l  1.9'f 7 w' .' 1 .025.4  4.114 5  3.5iE.6  16393.1
lntere,t and
.haryee         I i1.j   4;6     58(I)   1 .99. -'  f 645 h  ''s '   2.3o58  9,373.9
Net trjnoter    11 1.eX*  2.'W 6  I . QY 11  i.161 i  1_4 S  I S14 '  I .I t6h  -.i19.3
N    E, I F  Dth.hi ' ra  frorn ih- it) ; Spee-I Fund  rc mnclud,l. The c.,,iniris ;ho% .n in ihe v,ble are tho,e 'Aah the large4t
tN:,nil dion  Tre  rsq,.riai i.u%,i)   incl,ud   ~urreoit hIorToer; olI1  Regional reptsfment  .I,T..iuln  ir  1?i;.1  1S9  inslude,
rr,p 1. menn * . ' h-lhoIn h. Inr  Repum-  .f Ki-or-, tnd  i A tilIbon 1i'  Thal,Ind  Det.,L, roa. not add to totals lIcuse ot
r.Jndinh
wood products continue to contribute a sub-  Papua New Guinea and the Island
stantial share to export earnings, while manu-  Economies
factured exports are growing rapidly, although
from  a small base. The Laotian economy,       Among the smaller Pacific island countries,
however, shows severe structural weaknesses,  internal developments, rather than external
which are being addressed by an IDA-sup-     factors, governed economic performance in
ported structural-reform program.            1988. In Fiji, emergency stabilization and ad-
Myanmar, another low-income Southeast      justment measures, following the political de-
Asian country with considerable potential, is  velopments of 1987, restored economic stabil-
still trying to overcome the economic down-  ity, but GDP declined by about 2 percent.
turn in the aftermath of political disturbances.  Among the other Pacific economies. Solomon
The Bank hopes to play an active role with   Islands registered strong growth in production,
other donors in assisting its efforts at opening  as well as exports, following a weather-related
up the economy.                              decline of GDP in 1987. Real GDP growth in
The unexpected disasters and civil disrup-  1988 is estimated at 8 percent. Vanuatu's re-
tions in these countries has affected the imple-  covery from cyclone damage was undermined
mentation capacity of some governments and   by political difficulties encountered in 1988. In
hampered the flow of development assistance.  Tonga and Western Samoa, the effects of
Nonetheless, the Bank has maintained an ac-  drought were evident in lower production,
tive policy dialogue and significant operational  higher prices, and some deterioration in the
activity.                                    current accounts. A decline in GDP of about 2
In Bangladesh, for example, IDA is support-  percent is estimated for each country, but
ing the government's flood-reconstruction ef-  growth should return in 1989. In Kiribati, GDP
forts through a third flood-rehabilitation proj-  growth is provisionally estimated at 4 percent
ect, and economic reforms are being assisted  in 1988, primarily because of record copra
by IDA credits in the energy sector. In Sri  production. In the Maldives, a small island
Lanka, the Bank is assisting the government in  economy outside the Pacific region, growth
analyzing poverty and employment issues. A   was sustained at a high rate of 8 percent, led by
third industrial-development project and a for-  tourism and fisheries exports.
est-sector development project to address en-  Recent years have witnessed a revival of
vironmental and forest-management problems   growth in Papua New Guinea. Growth in GDP
is also being supported. In addition to its first  has averaged about 4.5 percent from 1985 to
structural-adjustment credit for Laos, the Bank  1988, compared with only 1.3 percent a year
also approved an industrial-sector credit and  earlier in the decade. Most of this improve-
an education credit for a total of three opera-  ment. however, has been due to increases in
tions, an increase over past levels of activity.  output of the enclave mineral sector. The main



Asia  121
challenge facing the government is to promote  1989, contains a substantial technical-assistance
stronger and broad-based growth in the non-  component for environmental-management im-
mining economy, on which the vast majority of  provement in the Steel Authority of India.
the population depends for income and em-   An estimated 70 million people live in con-
ployment. The Bank's operational strategy in  ditions of absolute poverty in China, where
Papua New Guinea places particular emphasis  regional disparities in natural-resource endow-
on supporting the development of agriculture,  ment and remoteness from dynamic centers of
infrastructure, and human resources.      industrial and agricultural development add a
distinct geographical dimension to the inci-
Reducing Poverty and Protecting the       dence of poverty. The Bank is helping the
Environment                               government in alleviating poverty in remote
Despite the impressive performance of most  areas through rural-development projects in
Asian countries during the past year, the region  Nei Monggol and Ningxia (where 123,000 fam-
still faces massive social and economic prob-  ilies are expected to increase their living stan-
lems. The core issue is poverty, made worse by  dards), Shaanxi (where 180,000 families are to
high rates of population growth, both of which  benefit), and in Shandong (where, through
are closely linked to most forms of environmen-  development of coastal lowlands, as many as
tal degradation. Although impressive progress  1.5 million families stand to benefit directly).
has been achieved in such areas as food self-  Nepal is another country with daunting prob-
sufficiency, indicators of health, and good insti-  lems of poverty and degradation of the natural-
tutional capacity for managing relief in times of  resource base. The government has launched a
major droughts or floods, the overall picture is  basic-needs program with the ambitious goal of
not encouraging. The world's poor are over-  eradicating absolute poverty by the year 2000.
whelmingly concentrated in Asia, and the num-  Much of the Bank's analytical work is focused
ber of people with incomes below their national  on Nepal's basic-needs strategy and the priority
poverty lines may well be increasing. Popula-  for developing human capital. There is also a
tion growth is highest in the poorest areas,  growing appreciation among aid donors and
where population densities often exceed envi-  government officials of the fragility of Nepal's
ronmental carrying capacities. Severe soil deg-  natural-resource base and the costs of further
radation, widespread deforestation, and grow-  degradation. The Bank is working with the
ing water and air pollution-stemming mostly  government and other donors on a series of
from the region's rapid industrial growth-have  studies to analyze longer-term environmental
raised the environmental awareness of Asian  issues. Meanwhile, building upon past involve-
governments and their citizens alike. Over the  ment, an IDA credit for a hill-community for-
past year, the Bank and many of its Asian  estry project was approved.
borrowers have sharpened their operational fo-  In the Philippines, poverty remains an exten-
cus on the long-term issues of poverty reduction  sive and serious problem, with the incomes of
and environmental protection.             over half the households falling below the pov-
Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are both engaged  erty line. The current recovery, while vigorous,
in efforts to improve the antipoverty impact of  has not yet exerted a telling impact on the
their development programs with the active  poverty situation, and there is a great need for
collaboration of IDA. However, the unprece-  expanded public services, as well as efficient
dented floods of 1987 and 1988 resulted in a  implementation of the comprehensive agrarian
decline in real wages and an increase in unem-  reform bill, to meet the needs of the poor. As to
ployment, causing some deterioration in the  poverty-related environmental trends, the rap-
poverty situation in Bangladesh. India has per-  idly expanding poor population in rural areas
haps the region's most extensive programs to  has moved into fragile upland ecosystems not
address the needs of the poor, who now num-  suited for farming and has caused widespread
ber over 300 million people out of a total  damage to forests, soils, and watersheds. The
population of some 800 million.           Bank has completed major operational reports
In fiscal 1989, the Bank's analytical work on  on poverty and the environment for the govern-
India was heavily concentrated on production  ment's consideration.
of a major report on poverty, employment, and  In the past year, the government of Indone-
social services. Bank initiatives during the year  sia has made a renewed commitment to reduce
to address environmental problems and issues  the incidence of poverty and to improve envi-
included a first environmental reconnaissance  ronmental management in order to ensure the
mission to help formulate future operational  sustainability of development. The share of
priorities for dealing with India's most critical  public expenditure allocated to poverty-related
natural-resource  problems. An  industrial-  sectors, such as social services and small-
finance project, which was approved in fiscal  holder agriculture, has been increased.



122    1989 Regional Perspectives
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
The Europe, Middle East, and North Africa         All borrowing    member countries of the
region is characterized by great diversity: di-    World Bank share a common goal: that of
versity in economic management, from       the     developing their human, physical, and institu-
socialist economies of Eastern Europe to the      tional infrastructure to provide for long-term
relatively free-market economies of Pakistan       sustainable growth so as to raise living stan-
and Turkey; and diversity in stage of develop-     dards. The attainment of these common goals
ment, from   relatively high-income countries,    has been made particularly difficult for all
such as Portugal and Hungary, to poor, such as    these countries by the need to deal with heavy
the two Yemens. The region includes oil im-       debt burdens and      introduce  reforms that
porters (Morocco, Pakistan, Portugal, Turkey)      increase reliance on both efficiency and an
and oil exporters (Algeria, the Arab Republic      appropriate balance between the private and
of Egypt, Tunisia, and the six member states of    public sectors in order to raise long-term pro-
the Gulf Cooperation Council-Bahrain, Ku-          ductivity and growth.
wait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the             The growth experienced in 1988 in the coun-
United Arab Emirates).6                           tries of the region was also diverse. Algeria,
Hungary, Tunisia, and Turkey had declines in
GDP growth, while Morocco, Poland, Portu-
gal, and the Yemen Arab Republic had rates
above those for 1987. In Portugal, sound do-
mestic economic policies, together with a
Table 6-8. Europe, NMiddle East. and              strong export performance, allowed that coun-
North Africa: 1987 Population and Per            try to continue an impressive growth rate of
Capita GNP ol Countr3 Borrowers.                  over 4 percent and continue its sustained re-
Fiscal Y'ears 1987-89                             covery from the macroeconomic difficulties of
( o-ulrur                           Pe:r CPppa    the early 1980s. The divergence in economic
ne-rro..er>.           Populijtln  GNP 19.%-'   growth is country specific, and can be ex-
Oscal lr-5) 29ihodsandi               i!USti      plained by differing exposures to externally
AILeria                    23.(97    'I.,h;      induced   shocks, continued    low  oil prices,
C,pru,                        NM^O    i.21)11     growth in oil exports (the Yemen Arab Repub-
Egypt. Arab Republic ,of   it) 1411    681)       lic is the prime example), drought (particularly
Huungar,                   10,h1'1    ,241       in Algeria), and differing economic policies.
Jordan                      3.79t    1.561l1     The excellent export performance of the region
Mo'roco                   '           h          in 1987 continued, and exports in 1988 grew by
Oman                        1.347    ij810        about 10 percent; performance in a few coun-
Paki,ttan                 II)2.4, 2    3'        tries (Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia, and Turkey) fell
Portural                   In. 161   2.:NIl       off from  the record levels recorded in 1987,
Tunisia                    '.h1       1. 181)     however.
Turker                               1.21' l)
Y emen Arab Republic        6.4-'4    '9
N'emen. People                                   6 The Gulf Cooperation Council, established in 1981, pro-
Denic.eratic Republic of  2.269      4'20        vides a political, economic, and social framework for
Y ugoslavia               123411     2A4X0         cooperation among the six countries. In February 1989,
leaders of Algeria. Libya, Mauritania, Morocco. and Tu-
NUI1E The I5'         ofuue .-n GNP per .apir, pre,enrdJ  nisia formally agreed to the establishment of the Arab
b-uoe Ire trorn ihe \%orld De;rl.ipmnmni  ndkicors" rn  Maghreb Union. which is expected to increase regional
the Itor!d D-.- pn-r R.rp,rr l JA9i                cooperation among these countries, as well. The Arab
*. E,umarie. trom rnmid l'JY-.                     Cooperation Council. composed of Egypt, Iraq. Jordan,
h. W.9r1J Bank 4flar merh.dololos. 19i.t- hdse period  and the Yemen Arab Republic, was also formed in Febru-
c Eus B.nk ortx.                                   ary 1989 for the purpose of aehieving economic coordina-
tion and integration.



Europe, Middle East, and North Africa  123
Continued Variation in Economic           about 50 percent in 1987 to about 70 percent in
Performance                               1988 despite the concerted efforts of the gov-
ernment to tighten fiscal and monetary poli-
Real gross domestic product increased the  cies. Key objectives for the government for
fastest (19.2 percent) in the Yemen Arab Re-  1988 included a reduction in the public-sector
public, which benefited from a massive in-  borrowing requirement to 6 percent of GDP
crease in oil production and exports; Morocco  (from over 8 percent in 1987) and a reduction in
(10.3 percent); and in Pakistan (6.5 percent, a  the growth rate to 5 percent (from an average
rate, however, that was slightly lower than in  of about 8 percent over the previous two
1987). No country   experienced  negative  years). These goals were broadly met, and real
growth, although GDP growth in Algeria, Tu-  growth declined to 3.4 percent in 1988. More-
nisia, the United Arab Emirates, and Yugosla-  over, aided by a boom in tourism, the balance-
via was around I percent.                 of-payments improvement was greater than the
In Pakistan, the most populous country in  targeted goal, with the current account shifting
the region, the steady economic expansion,  from a deficit of 1.4 percent of gross national
which has lasted throughout much of the dec-  product (GNP) to a surplus of over 2 percent in
ade, was accompanied by growing macroeco-  1988. The improved current-account perfor-
nomic imbalances. In 1988, for example, the  mance, together with a significant increase in
fiscal deficit, at 8.6 percent of GDP, reached its  direct foreign investment, permitted a reduc-
highest level in the past ten years. Despite  tion in external-debt ratios. These macroeco-
strong export growth (24 percent in current  nomic policies were not successful in contain-
dollars), the country's current-account deficit  ing inflation, however.
stood at 4.1 percent of GDP, well above the  The initial impetus for the increase in the
annual average of 3.3 percent experienced dur-  inflation rate appears to have been the adjust-
ing the earlier years of the 1980s. A deficit of  ments made, in late 1987, in public-sector
this magnitude is unsustainable, given Paki-  prices and tax rates. As rising inflationary
stan's low gross official foreign-exchange re-  expectations rendered real deposit interest
serves and its relatively high debt-service ra-  rates negative, demand for domestic money
tio. By mid 1988, gross reserves covered but  declined in real terms, and the Turkish lira was
three weeks of imports, and the debt-service  subjected to periodic bouts of speculation. In
ratio stood at 28 percent. In response to the  response, the government permitted interest
growing crisis, the government introduced sig-  rates to rise significantly in October 1988 when
nificant fiscal and trade-policy reforms, and, in  it liberalized the banking sector's ability to set
December 1988, reached agreement with the  interest rates. This action, combined with a
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the  partial freeing of the exchange rate earlier in
World Bank on a policy framework paper    the year, did ease pressure on the exchange
(PFP) that outlines government-reform propos-  rate, but it also led to a rise, to very high levels,
als for the period 1989 through 1991. The  in real lending rates. In turn, demand was
program of reform, reflecting strong govern-  dampened, particularly in the manufacturing
ment commitment to adjustment and structural  sector, at a time when economic growth was
reform, seeks to redress the growing macroeco-  already slowing. The government is currently
nomic imbalances of recent years and increase  faced, simultaneously, with weakening real
economic productivity in the economy, as well  economic activity and an inflationary situation
as in the financial sector. Key targets, covering  that shows no signs of subsiding. Recognizing
a reduction in the budgetary deficit, inflation,  the difficulty in addressing the twin goals of
the external current-account deficit, and the  bolstering growth and controlling inflation at
external debt-service ratio, have been agreed  the same time, the government has chosen to
upon. Once implemented, these reforms could  give the priority to the goal of achieving a
result in a sustained real growth in GDP of  sharp drop in inflation in 1989 and, accord-
about 5.2 percent in 1989 and of 5.5 percent a  ingly, has revised its 1989 growth target down-
year in 1990 and 1991. The government has  ward, from 5 percent to 3.7 percent. Moreover,
also stated that it intends to give greater prior-  the government has placed even greater em-
ity to the social sectors, and the Bank has  phasis on tighter fiscal and monetary policies,
indicated its willingness to support these ef-  accompanied by a longer-term  adjustment
forts. During the past year, the Bank gave  agenda that gives priority to reforms in the
considerable attention in its economic and sec-  financial and industrial sectors.
tor work program to social-sector issues and to  In Cyprus, all sectors of the economy have
ways to alleviate poverty.                shown positive and satisfactorily high rates of
Inflation continues to be the prime concern  growth, with particular accelerations in the
in Turkey, where it increased from a rate of  rates of expansion of manufacturing and agri-



124   1989 Regional Perspectives
culture (8 percent and 6 percent, respectively,  of economic and sector work, the Bank has
in 1988). Within the services sector, above  been assisting the Polish authorities to develop
average performance was exhibited by the    reform and adjustment proposals to establish
subsectors that are directly related with tour-  the basis for sustainable growth and improved
ism, offshore activities, and the provision of  creditworthiness. Important systemic and pol-
services abroad.                            icy improvements are already being imple-
Yugoslavia experienced several economic    mented, and further work is under way to
developments similar to those in other highly  prepare a revised medium-term plan.
indebted, middle-income countries. These in-  However, the macroeconomic context for
cluded increasingly severe inflation (at over  implementing the reforms has deteriorated,
250 percent a year) and a continued decline in  and the country faces severe difficulties in
GDP growth and consumption. The govern-     restoring domestic and external balances.
ment has embarked on a major program of     While Poland's output and exports continued
structural reform that stresses a more compet-  their upward trends, 1988 was a difficult year,
itive and market-oriented economy. The Bank  and the beginnings of 1989 show signs of
has provided extensive technical assistance in  further imbalances.
this effort. The constitution has been amended,  Reform is also critical to Hungary's medium-
and new laws are on the books that could    term and long-term prospects. In 1988, the
fundamentally affect enterprise operations,  government introduced a stabilization and
foreign investment, and banking and financial  structural-reform program that aimed at reduc-
operations. In addition, the government has  ing the growth in foreign debt (presently at 64
been actively working with the Bank to iden-  percent of GDP) and accelerating the pace of
tify policies to increase greatly both trade and  structural reforms through improvements in
domestic competition.                       fiscal balances, limitations on nominal wage
Reforms being developed in Poland are of  increases, price and tax reform, and an active
unprecedented political and economic scope   exchange-rate policy. This program was sup-
and represent a daunting task of institutional  ported during the past year by the IMF, as well
and policy change. Through an active program  as by the Bank, which approved an industrial-
Table 6-9. Lending to Borrowers in Europe. Middle East, and North Africa. by Sector,
Fiscal I-ears 1980}89
millin - .ff  S U .Jil3rsi
Annuil
a %er.ge
Seimr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 148t          ., 195  1996    1 ox'5  Iso Y    1- 9ilzJ
Agriculture and Rural
De%eloprnenl                      676.0   1.013.8 712       39.  4   ih6 05  1,411.4
De%eliopmenr Finance Conipuniei     363 9    S1. I   '135.t   3h'.9     11.     31)
Education                           1 16.4   156l .  213.1   2'ii.;l  i '41.:5  178.0
E nerE
(Oil. rd, and coal                169 '    ,94U -            'I.IJ    30 1    115 5
Po% er                            'l6 3    46' 0   595      89- 1X  4u0.0(   415.1
lndusti                            2"1 7     1 7.6   1 2.1    1hNt.l  377.(    31si. I
Nonproicct                          404.1      -       -                ti1iJ  I'U.1I  200.0
Population Health. dnd Nutrnilion     9 7    41 9      -       133       -      5'.
Sman.1-c_de  Enterprive              41.1 tJ  51.11  It1t) (I  54 0   32N.0 1
Technical AssisLance                  5 I     4.7      1.(J     '        -U
lelecorn!munication                 5(b.8     3.(J     -      245 i0   36 0
Tranport1aion                       306.1   356 Li   193.5    54i 8   3i7.0    29h 0
Llrbjn De%elk.pmerit                 61 4    3 . '    9Yii    17ft...  90 1)    58.t
Water Supph lnd Streerape           IS 1O   192.11   12l I'l  559     233 h'
Tot3l                              5S;2.841 ' .0 i  1.95s.()  3.6s. 6  3.u135>t  32767.5
Of %%hich: IBRD        '.511i 4           2.820. 1  2. 31 4  3437.4  4.1 3 I  3.511 .
IDA                       336.3 2l  Y 4    223.6   249.     22. l    255.7
Numbrr ,t Operation-      5i                47      37       4'      35       34
N    i F  Del .iI. m.. r..u  *JJ 10 11..l  be  aute of  oundini



Europe, Middle East, and North Africa  125
I~~~~~~~~~~~~  -r!y                          --
-  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~a 
Irrigation provides water for a date-palmn plantation in Tunisia, whiere drougflt induced a 24 percent decline in
agricultural production in 1988.
sector adjustment loan. Initial results, by and  debt rescheduled, the current-account deficit
large, have been mixed. Gross domestic prod-  was reduced to about 6.5 percent of GDP (com-
uct remained constant (against a planned mod-  pared with 12 percent had not interest payments
est increase), exports to convertible-currency  been rescheduled). The budget deficit conitin-
areas grew 9 percent in volume terms, and  ued to decline considerably-from 20 percent of
there was an improvement in the convertible-  GDP in 1987 to about 16 percent in 1988-but
currency trade balance to an overall surplus of  still remains unsustainably high and continues
about $615 million. This improvement, how-  to represent a potential source of high inflation.
ever, was offset by a larger-than-expected def-  The government has initiated a series of
icit in the services account, with the result that  changes in pricing policy, as well as other
the convertible-currency current-account defi-  actions, designed to cut further the budget def-
cit was about $100 million greater than ex-  icit. However,.amore rapid and thorough struc-
pected. The government budget was also     tural reform will be needed if Egypt is to restore
higher than planned, due largely to a failure to  its economy to a balanced growth path.
reduce sufficiently subsidies to enterprises.
Egypt continued to experience economic   Adjustment in the Maghreb Countries
difficulties, which were exacerbated by the  Over the past five vears, Morocco has un-
oil-price decline and by an extremely heavy  dertaken important structural reforms, which,
external debt. After a significant slowdown in  despite difficult circumstances, have led to
growth over the previous two years, the econ-  considerable progress towards achieving inter-
omy expanded slightly in 1988 (by about 3  nal and external equilibria. At the same time,
percent), facilitated, in part, by a substantial  the country has succeeded in achieving a mod-
increase in imports. The balance-of-payments  est growth rate with low inflation and avoiding
situation, however, remained precarious, al-  the drastic decline in per capita consumption
though some modicum of relief was provided  experienced by other highly indebted countries
through a sharp decline in interest payments as  facing a similar deterioration in terms of trade.
a result of the Paris Club debt rescheduling that  Morocco's reform program can be traced back
covered the period through June 1988. With  to the balance-of-payments crisis of 1983 that



126   1989 Regional Perspectives
caused the government to embark on a coura-  the conduct of macro policies, stressing the
geous stabilization and adjustment program  active role of the central bank in controlling
supported by the Bank and the IMF. Since  credit and money supply and the disengage-
then, an active exchange-rate policy has re-  ment of the treasury from direct financing of
sulted in a decline in the real exchange rate of  public enterprises. Further deep transforma-
23 percent, which has helped proceeds from  tions are under way toward establishing fully
tourism and workers' remittances to be main-  autonomous public enterprises and banks, as
tained at high levels and import demand to be  well as reforming the incentive framework,
contained following a reduction in trade barri-  including adjustment of the exchange rate,
ers. Budgetary subsidies have been reduced by  interest rate, and commodity prices.
about 3 percent of GDP, and public investment  Far-reaching adjustment has been a feature
has been rationalized. The government has  of the Tunisian economy for a number of
also implemented comprehensive tax-reform  years. Stabilization measures, begun in 1985,
measures that should improve allocative effi-  reduced the imbalances in the budget and
ciency and ensure that the tax burden is shared  external current account and established the
more equitably. In parallel to the macroeco-  conditions for the country's deep liberalization
nomic reform program, the government has  program, which was begun in 1986. Despite
implemented reforms at the sectoral level. Pol-  the government's commitment to adjustment
icy reforms at the macro level and in the  (which has led to substantial donor support),
industrial, agriculture, education, and public-  recent economic events have been adverse.
enterprise sectors have been pursued. These  In 1988. for example, the economy was
sectoral reforms, supported by Bank lending  affected by a severe drought and a locust
and advisory assistance, have made the econ-  infestation that, together, induced a 24 percent
omy reflect more realistically, through a set of  decline in agricultural production, bringing
incentives, economic costs and benefits to  GDP growth down to 1.5 percent, as opposed
producers and consumers. They have also   to 5.8 percent in 1987. Nevertheless, exports
made the budget cost of state intervention  performed strongly, and imports grew only
more transparent and have led to an improve-  modestly; as a consequence, the current ac-
ment in the climate for private investors.  count was slightly in surplus.
The economy has responded positively. To-
tal exports have increased by almost 5 percent  Adjustment Issues in Jordan
a year since 1984, led by a dramatic rise in the  During the past year, Jordan's economic
share of manufactured exports, which now  performance was adversely affected by a de-
represent almost 30 percent of the total. The  cline in export receipts and by a slowdown in
current-account deficit (after rescheduling),  remittances from workers in neighboring oil-
which was 8 percent of GDP in 1980, improved  exporting countries. Consequently, strains
to a 1 percent surplus in 1988, and the fiscal  have been placed on the government's budget-
deficit declined from almost 12 percent of GDP  ary operations, as well as on the balance of
in 1983 to about 4 percent in 1988.       payments. Calendar year 1988 was difficult:
Morocco's success in adjusting has not been  GDP declined to 1.7 percent in real terms. The
without costs, however. Since the inception of  only sectors registering growth were agricul-
policy reforms, economic growth has not been  ture and public administration, while manufac-
strong enough to ensure significant increases in  turing, mining, and construction showed sharp
per capita income and adequate employment  declines. The reduction in output was accom-
levels. The Bank has emphasized in its eco-  panied by a further deterioration in the fiscal
nomic and sector work better understanding of  situation, as the budget deficit rose from 11.8
the effect of economic adjustment on employ-  percent of GDP in 1987 to almost 15 percent in
ment opportunities, on the compression of  1988. This increase was caused by the slow
living standards, and poverty with a view to  growth in domestic revenue, together with a
identifying operations that can substantially  rapid growth in current expenditures that re-
alleviate the social costs of adjustment.  sulted from a rapidly rising public-sector wage
In the case of Algeria, movement from a  bill and a steep increase in external and inter-
centrally planned economy to a more market-  nal debt payments. At the same time, the
oriented system has been striking. The first  balance of payments has come under increased
step in this direction was the effective privati-  pressure, and large deficits have led to a run-
zation of state farms, a structure that had  down in official reserves. The weakness in
resulted in low and stagnant productivity for  Jordan's balance-of-payments situation in 1988
the past twenty-five years.               was largely the result of the significant decline
This measure was followed by a complete  in remittances and grants (by 6 percent in
revamping of the institutional framework for  nominal terms) and the increase (by nearly 40



Europe, Middle East, and North Africa  127
Table 6-10. Nel Transrers to Europe. Nliddle East, and North Africa
imilli.ri. c  L- *s di,Ii,.r'  i*..Q;d1:  .
l1 rks E%w. pi                    T.ic ci rtg-.n
IBRD and IDA
commilm-nt'    949.4    l. 3x 9  7(j9 4AI          24 1.11 5 N4 3    .   5   16711 .1
Grows
djsbursements  47ii -   l.;44.2 S2   '   xf        116 fS  944 7    '.h54 L  1'1hi.S
Repayments        II 4     ',I16.  4X9 3   1. 524    12 l' v  i 4     1.7 5.>   .979.9
Net
disbUrsemenrs  8Sc 0I   L.'42.7      q i)  2.'l'' M  I 'h 'I  415.11  SS' 4   h'X 6
Interest and
char-c,         11)4.5    365 5  52    S      2    I 2  I   ;91 i   I il. S    ')i13 S
Nei tranifer  '  :S4.5     x'17.  1443.Si    SI h   Ili's 3l  II-h'I  it,"  ii       I
No)i  Di  r,eme.j  I* irorm  I tc  ID-% Sr.cci.  F,.nl  .r   In,lwjcd  IhL  '.  c.1n1r-  h,. . n Lr. Ithe I,hl'e  rc iho,v. n.i  rluduinr
Polknd. '-hich ha; . ci i,o ho,rw. Ir,om  ih, Bn,4  I -%,th the I,rceet r-pul  i.!r'  lhc1 rccciriIi, T,l.  indljec  urr.,ni bomir-'e i
olr,   D)-Ukii  Trix., not Add  i,' 1.-.. hec.d.e *:I I,'din,
percent) in debt-service payments. In response  nomic activity and the emergence of a degree
to the deteriorating economic situation, the  of independence from oil-price fluctuations.
government has implemented a series of re-    Preliminary estimates indicate that Kuwait,
form measures, the most important of which    Oman, and the United Arab Emirates have had
are a 30 percent depreciation of the dinar, the  the highest nonoil GDP growth rates, in the 4
deregulation of interest rates, the liberalization  percent-to-6 percent range. The case of Oman
of financial markets, and a budget for 1989 that  is particularly noteworthy, as it had suffered
emphasizes economic austerity. The govern-    significant negative growth rates in overall
ment recently signed a letter of intent with the  GDP in both 1986 and 1987. Nonoil GDP
IMF on a standby arrangement. Discussions     growth rates have been somewhat lower for
on a Bank-supported    structural-adjustment  Saudi Arabia (about 2 percent), Bahrain (about
loan have progressed satisfactorily, and its  3 percent), and Qatar (less than I percent).
presentation to the executive board is expected  A deterioration in the external balances of
to take place early in fiscal 1990.           most of these countries took place in 1988.
with the current-account deficit increasing
Adjustment among the High-income Oil          from $1.5 billion to $3.8 billion. Kuwait and the
Exporters                                     United Arab Emirates were the only countries
The further decline in international oil prices  with current-account surpluses, of $3.6 billion
during 1988 did not have a uniform effect upon  and $3.4 billion, respectively. Saudi Arabia
the high-income, oil-exporting countries. Saudi  showed a current-account deficit of about $7.4
Arabia was able to compensate for the oil-price  billion, a 22 percent improvement over the
decrease through an increase in output, while  previous year, reflecting increases in nonoil
Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, and the United Arab     exports.
Emirates experienced precipitous drops in oil
revenues. As a result, growth rates in 1988   The Challenge of Systemic Reform
varied, with Saudi Arabia growing at 4 percent,  While there are opportunities for increased
the United Arab Emirates at less than I per-  domestic savings in several countries of the
cent, and the other member countries of the   region, a consensus exists throughout the re-
Gulf Cooperation Council (Bahrain, Oman,      gion that revival of growth must rely on greater
Qatar) at about 2 percent. Aided by a growth in  economic efficiency. The search for economic
exports of 3.2 percent, Libya's GDP increased  efficiency encompasses a wide agenda-sys-
by 2.6 percent during the year. In Kuwait,   temwide reforms, corrections of economic dis-
where oil production was virtually the same in  tortions through greater reliance on market
1988 as in the year before, GDP growth was   prices, better balance between the public and
estimated at 2 percent.                       private sectors, and greater outward orienta-
The growth of nonoil GDP in many of these   tion of economies through trade reform.
countries has been positive, thus demonstrat-   Perhaps the greatest challenge will be for
ing a resumption of a balanced level of eco-  countries to raise economic efficiency by per-



128   1989 Regional Perspectives
mitting a greater role for markets and the  results of this program are already visible, both
private sector. In the socialist countries of the  in the banking sector and in the process of
region, this means a fundamental reorientation  establishing capital markets. Recently, Poland
of the economic system to one that would  has undertaken major reforms in this area with
permit a greater role for markets and decision-  Bank support to separate the functions of
making and introduce private-sector activity in  savings banks and commercial banks from the
large segments of economies that had previ-  central bank. In Yugoslavia, where banks have
ously been in the public sector. In many cases,  been owned by the enterprises they lend to,
efficiency will not need to be achieved by  banks are now required to convert into profit-
privatization per se, but through competition  making entities with a minimum of paid-in
where none existed before. Trade reform and  capital and their management independent of
an opening of the economy to foreign compe-  sociopolitical communities. During the past
tition is often an important element in this  year, the Bank has been actively involved with
process. In mixed economies, efficiency in-  financial-sector reform. both through lending
volves restructuring of public enterprises,  and advisory work, in Algeria, Morocco, Tu-
helping them become more autonomous, ex-  nisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, as well as in
posing them to more competition, and, where  Pakistan, where a first financial-sector loan
appropriate, assisting in their privatization.  was approved.
Several countries of the region are contem-  Systemic reform in the socialist economies
plating, or have started, systemwide reforms  of the region perhaps offers the greatest of
that involve greater competition through  challenges, given the major structural changes
greater freedom of entry for firms and a more  required within their economies. In order to
liberal trade regime; greater financial discipline  gain a better understanding of the complexities
through limiting access to the budget and the  and linkages of introducing market reforms
banking system; and a general easing of con-  while simultaneously pursuing stabilization
straints on labor and capital mobility through  and adjustment goals in these countries, the
bankruptcy laws or other measures. Such re-  Bank has embarked on a major work program
form measures, for example. have been a ma-  of analysis and research. The program is ex-
jor focus of Bank assistance to Hungary    pected to be completed within two years.
through industrial-restructuring loans. Fur-
thermore, in Hungary, Poland, and Yugosla-  Bank Operations, Fiscal 1989
via, the Bank is assisting governments design  In a global environment characterized by
new frameworks to facilitate foreign ventures  continuing difficult external and domestic eco-
and direct foreign private investment. New  nomic conditions, the World Bank continued
laws for this purpose were passed by all three  to provide assistance for adjustment efforts
countries in fiscal 1989.                 -both at the macroeconomic and sectoral
In the more market-oriented economies of  levels-aimed at strengthening the capabilities
Morocco, Pakistan, Tunisia, and Turkey, im-  of the countries to implement key reforms.
proving economic efficiency depends less on  Policy-based lending, which included a first
systemic reform than on realistic pricing of  structural-adjustment loan to Morocco, three
foreign exchange and credit and liberalization  sector-adjustment loans in Pakistan, and one
of the price, foreign trade, and investment  sector-adjustment loan to Tunisia, totaled $884
regimes. Even in these countries, a serious  million during the year, or about 23 percent of
reappraisal and redefinition of the role of the  total lending. Pakistan was the region's largest
state and the rules of the game for public-  borrower, with $949 million in loan commit-
sector enterprises are under way.         ments from the IBRD and IDA.
Reforming the financial sector remains a  Project lending was extremely varied, with
critical aspect of any reform program. Finan-  almost all sectors represented, including re-
cial-sector reforms are often essential to pro-  gional development (Portugal and the Yemen
viding greater opportunities for private-sector  Arab Republic), human-resource development
development and to providing an important  (Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia), and water and
underpinning to expanding output in all sec-  sanitation (Egypt, Pakistan, and the People's
tors. Reform normally requires limitations to  Democratic Republic of Yemen). Special em-
be placed upon subsidies, reductions of pre-  phasis in the lower-income countries (the two
ferred-creditor practices, improved financial  Yemens and Pakistan) was placed on projects
transparency, establishment of a sound bank-  designed to assist the poor. Finally, an unusual
ing regulatory framework, and the develop-  project was approved-a locust-control proj-
ment of efficient central banks. Hungary, with  ect, designed, on an emergency basis, to miti-
the Bank's support, has introduced a compre-  gate the effects of the devastation to Algeria
hensive financial-sector reform program. Early  caused by locusts during 1988.



Latin America and the Caribbean  129
Latin America and the Caribbean
Over the past eighteen months, economic  erating. The improvement in the region's terms
growth in the Latin America and the Caribbean  of trade over the same eighteen-month period
region has slowed, further delaying the process  has partly offset, however, the effect of declin-
of restoring per capita output, income, and  ing output per capita on income and consump-
consumption to average levels that had pre-  tion-except in the oil-exporting countries,
vailed during the three-year period, 1979-81.  which were hit by an additional decline in oil
Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita de-  prices in 1988.
clined at an annual rate of -0.6 percent in 1988  Regional economic growth has been quite
and early 1989. Further, in the first half of  uneven. The record of regional performance
1989, the decline in per capita GDP was accel-  has been much influenced by the deceleration
of GDP growth in Argentina, Brazil, and Ven-
ezuela, which, together, account for around
Table 6-11. Latin America and the          two thirds of the region's GDP. In these three
Caribbean: 1987 Population and Per         countries, total GDP increased by only 0.8
Capita GNP of Couniry Borrow-ers.          percent in 1988 and declined in the first half of
Fiscal Vears 1987-89                       1989. Deceleration of growth in Argentina and
Brazil halted the economic recovery of Uru-
Cournri            hep-Iluna   GNpi .      guay. The severe drought that has been affect-
fi;.Il IW.4s9      ith.,u.and&i  US4       ing Argentina and Uruguay since mid 1988
Argentina            31.121      2.39tl   reinforced the contractionary pressures on
Bahama.. The           24t.1    lt.u      economic activity by early 1989. The experi-
Barbsados              "4        > o       ence of these three countries stands in contrast
Belize                 l'h       .'4       with the strong recovery that took place most
Belize Ia h.-'9                  1b.411    noticeably in Chile, where growth of GDP
Bolrail             14.4                   continued at the high annual rate of 7 percent
Chile                1'.541                in the first half of 1989, but also in Colombia,
Colomtna             29. 4".     1. 41(    Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Jamaica. The be-
Colta Rica           2.4-ki      1.24lt    ginning of recovery in Bolivia and Paraguay
ComtarRca             2t48       L10       contrasts with stagnation in the Dominican
Dominican Republic    6-1'                 Republic and Mexico, and with large GDP
E;unador   p89b      I6.tJ0               losses in Haiti, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, and
El Scluador          J989        1t040     Trinidad and Tobago. Ecuador recovered in
GuEemalad             8,43s        6i      1988 the output level reached in 1986 after the
Gu'ana                 '9'        390     loss brought about by the 1987 earthquake.
Ham  h.l4'           in1!   In most countries of the region, the decline
Honduraiti            4.6.1       3        m output per capita has been accompanied by
Jamaica               4.468       91u     increases in export earnings and acceleration
Jeaico               81.460 1     941      of inflation. By early 1989, export earnings
Panama                2' I-0     2.'4t     increased enough to ease significantly the for-
St. Vincent and]                           eign-exchange constraint in all countries ex-
the Grenadind s            I    'RM      cept for the oil exporters. But increased export
LJruguay             .9sl       '-19{      earnings failed to fuel a recovery in those
3 2.1911  --countries where governments have not been
NcirE The 19S' ..rnmale, of GNP per JPi.La prevented  successful in implementing credible fiscal ad-
abGze are fr..m ihs "World Development Inuic.iiorz n  justment programs.
ihe t1opiJ D'elop'Ie.I Rep'ori 199.         The increased surplus in the region's trade
a Ei,imaic, from rrad 19.S-                balance with the rest of the world reflected
b. Itorid Ba,k Ail ,  mnexhodoiog*.. 1I4-N' i.e ver-.-d  both external and domestic factors. The sur-



130    1989 Regional Perspectives
plus was used to pay interest on external debt,  early 1989 as a result of the implementation of
although some countries managed to accumu-     new policies to correct the country's macroeco-
late international reserves. For the region as a  nomic imbalances and realign relative prices.
whole, the net transfer to foreign creditors was  Only in Panama and in the Caribbean countries
still larger than the trade surplus, however. For  was inflation kept at rates comparable with
the first time since the beginning of the debt  those of developed countries.
crisis in 1982, the nominal value of the region's  The acceleration of inflation over the past
total external debt declined, from $443 billion  eighteen months was one consequence of the
at the end of 1987 to $428 billion at the end of  increasing difficulty that governments faced in
1988. The reduction of long-term  debt with    implementing policies to correct macro imbal-
creditor banks through buybacks and swaps      ances, including controlling public finances
programs amounted to about $17 billion in      and changing relative prices and real wages.
1988, but, in early 1989, it declined in anticipa-  Political pressures mounted to prevent further
tion of major actions by creditor countries.   reductions in public-sector deficits. The fi-
Inflation, which accelerated to very high    nancing of these deficits continued to rely on
levels in Argentina, Brazil, Nicaragua, and    monetary expansion, but the demand for
Peru, stands in sharp contrast with Mexico,    money balances declined due to the acceler-
where inflation has been reduced from a rate of  ated inflation brought about by the expansion.
144 percent in the twelve months up to Decem-  Thus, the real revenue from a given rate of
ber 1987 to one of 18 percent in the twelve    monetary expansion also declined. The correc-
months up to April 1989. In Bolivia, Costa     tion of external and internal imbalances called
Rica, the Dominican Republic, and Ecuador,     for changes in relative prices and real wages,
the acceleration of inflation is noteworthy for  which, in turn, called for adjustments in the
its reemergence after a period of modest in-   exchange   rate  and  government-controlled
crease. Despite the acceleration   of GDP      prices. But these adjustments were often ac-
growth, inflation declined in Chile and Para-  companied by offsetting adjustments in nomi-
guay. Although inflation also declined in Ven-  nal wages, government-determined incomes,
ezuela during 1988, it sharply increased in    and subsidies. Even in countries with a long
Table 6-12. Lending to Borrowers in Latin America and the Caribbean. b) Sector.
Fiscal 1'ears 1981}89
inillon  I LI S dollirsi
A^nnu;d
a, erJge
Sei,or                          19s1 -S4    I 4 55             1q9I7    ININX      19i.9
Agriculture and Rural
Development                  '92.4      44'2.    1 .9s t l  1.195.0  I.404.8    161.S
Developnent Finance Companies     >h3.2     95 (.    252 4    1.11 S I   97(.fi     564.3
Educd1ion                            9      95. S      III Q     - S4 9   8S 3      14o 0
Ener,z
Oil, g.l. :nd .oal               98 N     301 (!   131 tl    11.14.4     -        94.o1
Posser                          54h 2      313 7    819 2    423 8     423 0      736.t
Indutarr                          131        4.1.1      -       i5st"  It.3ht.0    860.0
Nonproject                       6h         4 13.11  7'r5 t) I0.u .     2'7.t'   1.492.0
Po.pulaLon. Healih. and Nuintion  20.8       _       sh I)     11 l}   109 .      99.t1
Small-c aile Enierprise           2i        1 2  34U11.0  7' U  I. u        -       1I5.0
Techni,al Asi-it.nce               f         '.0 9.5  4 5        15.5       _
Telecommunications                " .         -         -         -         -       45.0
Transporttttcn                   465.2     662.11    140)6     524.     2'1U1.6     149 3
Lirban De%elopment               15- '      r'.9    3t9 5      325 II   464.U     675.0
Wdier SuppI: and Se-erige         2-,1 2    163.8     15 Ui     64 tl    252 3      120.4)
Total                           3 061.y)  3h.6Y) 2  4.1.2     i.1 i2 11  5.264 u  i.S42 I
Ofr hich IBRD                  '.1I15) 0 .h;62.3  4.71)1.'  4.994 .   5 12l 0   5.7(13.7
IO)A                   47.1      4- 9      7(.(1     17 4      11 U     138 4
Number or (O)peration            46      -41        43         ;        17         43
N01 E Detilj, mj nil .i.d 1.. ioia heraue *o.1roundne



Latin America and the Caribbean  131
A- -- t)-                            tt>v-                       s;
-         w<(; 
A textile factory in Fortaleza, Brazil. Lending for induistry in Latin America has totaled over $3 billion.
history of low inflation, governments were not  els so high that there was little likelihood that
able to change relative prices and real wages  they could be sustained over the next few
without creating large inflationary pressures.  years. Fuel prices began to recover somewhat
in 1989 from their low 1988 levels. It is likely,
Export Earnings, Resource Transfers,         therefore, that the key to growing export earn-
and Debt Service                            ings in the future will be the expansion of
The strong recovery of nonfuel commodity   export volumes, which has already been signif-
prices and the continued expansion of export  icant in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
volumes have been driving the region's export  Mexico. Paraguay, and, to a lesser extent, in
earnings to record levels (merchandise exports  Argentina, Costa Rica, and Uruguay. Further
amounted to $104.3 billion in 1988, 11.7 per-  expansion of export volumes in these countries
cent higher than the average nominal value of  is likely to require corresponding increases in
1980-87). By early 1989, nonfuel commodity  investment. In the Dominican Republic, Peru,
prices, particularly metal prices, reached 1ev-  and Venezuela, exports either increased very



132    1989 Regional Perspectives
Box 6-1. lb-e Amount and UIe. of Debtor Countries Trade Surpluses
There are  arii'u  meansiure- ol a countir-C  re  that had a posiri'e total ,turplu, are included in
source ir,,n ter. but ihe a -lahilitm  of daiA.  the [ible
ere3dtl determin&- the cholice. The mrni relialhe  The Total urplu-s can h; tran4erred to fo-Ircien
data reter to the re4ource. -r trade bhlance. ihat  creditore and rin.est.r' First. it cin he uc ed to
I . thc dtll renLe belt"een e\pUrts ind irnpori' ot  ser' ice the long-term external debt (column 41.
mercha.ndie ind nontlactor fruicc%. The -a,rce  includingde-bihububa:K' Second. tcan he uscd to
of the trade hblance of eight highl indebted Latin  serx ice the short-term external debi. A grons e.ti-
American countrie, for 19s(-X" is presenled in  maite of this tianzfer is pic'tritd 'column 5'. but
13ox Table 6-i. In term; ot re'uurce a%ailabilt\ .  th, quahltt of the dlt.a is not comparable to that of
th  ttade surplusu t,olumn II can he comple-    the long-term dett. 1 hird. the trade surplus can be
mented tentporarl\x h  u%ing international r. -  transferred to forcign in' en!ior in repa\ment of
ser'~ cicolumn  i. In the table. the diu-.dov.n of  their pre' iotsI in;e tmenti The effetise transfer
intern:aional re-er%e . net of International Non  should take intoaccount ne-i' inxstment flb\%. In
et.ir Fund lredi. I, added to the trade urpIue io  *ome cotiniries th. iinplcmenta,tion of debt-equt\
ci%e a totli * urpltiu icolumn 'i (inh counie e  x aps ha- led 1o a cignific.ant inc reawe in foreign
Bo.n Table h-. Etlimate- of the Re%ourre iYradei Surplus and Its Uses
,. er ge- .fr  I'-.  i  pi rcn *i n' of [)P.a  c urrr,t rpr;ie
Re our,e bilance              Net Trarier to 1 ;re,gn
Crcd.ior,                    Re-c'urce
rr.,dc     U- ,4       T.atil       Ci-
-urplu'    re-rn e     -dnirkln   L.;nE-g Ihorn     Ir- etior-
'ijritrIr.      I I2'                 1iJ        i4i       I         t1Ip     -:-4 - r.
\r,:en al          I J        0.n         1         2.b     '1 _      -1i.4         -11 3
Br.711              -           . ";                3 '       '        _, I          i.
tThi Žll.'3                  -11 S       JI J       l3a     -''        - 4-
C olobiaEl         ' 3       -t !         'S        2.'      11 '      -t1.4        -11.2
Ecuador                                   .        -i         i   :.   -1i           5
N .t1c.  4o        J            1        at I   J f,  h,ii  -11 I    - I.         -
UrXnzua'.-        - t. I       tI        t '  '1 b   I                  li i i-. 
C. PP .t e hed
..~~~~~                 i'         5.ce.     1 1O i     !J4 1-1 1  iii1 
T Lrde -lip Id . equal to. e e  ot e p.rtr o er irnport .It * oi 1 nd nonfacior ,er ke
12i Re-ir-c' ire defined as ioia re'er's c .iluding jOldl net ol- u'e o IkMF credit Intere't paid to nte IMP h,4 not
tben sLubtracted.
13'  The  SLi.T, ot I I  rI,d I I
14' The totat rDet iransfer to forei,r cr,diror' related to the tong - term debt It alo Includes an e,timtic 01 the iranster
In .ol' ed ir dc-unted b.rac , rd , atii,Lzt,i,n 1f delt Inter~,t p,o ments are c ratiraer in,n accrued See Bo'
T,hle h  for det,lF .
I Fi ETti,ie oi ihhe nct tr:instcr reltaed Ji .hon term Jebt'
-i E 'tirm,ie ot 'he -m-i rlo   ;1 t.oregn -ri e,tmrnt The repatriaon of pr -fits h,, nor been subtracted frmrni the net
01ut`10 .'
S:1 te L n\The  ce;tId Bank
little or declined during the 1980s, and, in these  tainly has happened in Chile and Colombia.
countries, the potential exists for expanding      But in Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, export
exports without the corresponding need to          earnings increased to record levels in 1988
increase investment. In Bolivia and Central        without bringing about an accelerated recovery
America, any recovery in export volumes fol-       of output. In Mexico, imports increased in
lowing the long decline of the early 1980s is      response to the liberalization of its trade sys-
constrained both by the need to develop new        tem and the consequent transformation to an
production and export activities and to resume     open economy. So far, Mexico's new level of
investment in traditional exports.                 imports reflects a change in the composition of
Increased export earnings should have facil-     output rather than a recovery of GDP per
itated the transition from  a foreign-exchange     capita. In Argentina and Brazil, despite the
constrained situation to one in which condi-       increased availability of foreign exchange, the
tions for sustained growth are ripe. This cer-     dollar value of imports did not increase be-



Latin America and the Caribbean    133
invesmInent That nmj\ not hake teen pioperl .-  t[Fe trade *.urplus a, a pcrtenta&e o1t tJDP at
counted The etimiiem, rresented in columnn t .,re  crn'tant price- c.an he obhtaind from cch cOfln
erv rentiat'e                                   Ir;  nairlpal avdntIf. t-Lil the esiimatles depend
Bl[o  l1ble n-2 hc.%-: the net tran4fer to lone  on the price; ol the h1s, .ear .%hbch i! not the
term  creditors. The net tran,fer include, an,   *;nrc f;.r all countrie' Gi ellt he larg_e chan_es in
reiource trans;ferred to creditor' Ji a re-uli .or  relati. e price; and. in pa,ricalir. th,: deteriora-
debthbut bok, and capitalizatiurn icolumn "i The  I[rn in the termn ot iradc kith re'pecl to 1.i9--h.
table pro' ides information *-n the net iranstcr  the r.io, aL con'an fli Pie- shti  a different
frLm dehbir counrric- publik ectcor' a' kell o.  rid uli  e'peciall% irn cotinirle' that u-e I9Sti a!
on the total net transiei to tinanci,l mnjrk,:t'  the ba.se ;e.r for thc national accotjnt, at con-
bhichi include; mr:inl comnmercial b.nks. The    sLant prices The dollar -aluaiuvn of Gl)P atso
basic 'nto'rmrironforr hl itable i,trotnihe Brnk''  pc-e' priblem; because of the large di,crepan-
debtor report!nn ss,rem. but orme adiutmirenr,   cie, betneen otYicial and parallel e;chnrie ale-s
hake been m ade to iho'- icual. rather thin      in ',me countries. I he 1iui e, for Argentina and
accrued. paymenti.                               Bra.;il in l4se hid to he jdiusied [to reflect the
The dtr.i used tn the table are ;t currerl prices.  o, ern alu-arin tor Ihe nationnal currenm  ja the
and oLficial echange rjle, hase been Lused to   otffiilcal rate
estimate the dollar %jlue of GDP. Est,mates or
Box rab/t 6-2. Net Tran.rer io Foreign Creditors. Long-term De.h
ia.er.gc for !      rrerceri ofi tDP a c'rreni rilcc-
t- oi-l              From purikF  P  UN          fin-ncial mo l,ei,
Ii     2     3 !_I4,f,    Ii1i          ;     4 2    1 it  ,,i ,2  3    ,4
.Areenina        2 S   i     -      3     2 I     -    -O.4    1   .        ii -   i!    3 4
ErazrI            3'          i i'~,  22  2 .4   r2'     1 4   I1   i  1 ) .
Cr le     1      i3i         -2     ' |4  >'   -       -23     45    i ; n  -1 ot: 2o h
_ol.ornbi        22'         -M!il  32    i      -     -ii 2|          ii '       -ii~    4
Ecu Ador        -sli-   -    -4      *; na n      .     na     ia n   IJ     -    - _1
lMe-cxc......  ,  ' i,  1 '  _, .     I   3 I     .3   -       4 3    '.    I h   -.i,)  J 4
Llrucuai         . i    -    -2'"   4     !      -     -2 I    3 '          _     - I
'cne:uli          i     _     . -   4 4   4       - _            2          -      24    42
C. DP. , c. hle.i
:,% eri L!,    4 4    in9    -    4 i   2 '    11 2  _i1     2 '    4     t In   12 I   S
N.:iTL- Th- pubHic 'cior reter, t.- publ, and rihi,J-. U.r.nid eN i a'r. ithe .,ni * it.,,  - Li. 1r fl  iriilreri
rid  b% Chil,r  * ri.   iie r.s  *  .-on rheii r,,hl  r.  u irnrtcrd  d.tr. hr h,  hber. c ..iil.dd  inr.n, he rubii .  li*lTre; 
parmenri  Finjnc,iln rr.  ,r   ad ,r d rld  n  ir. lh a ,nk  i I.  I i T., ,-, L
n a Nit .a.dA Hr.
, Nei ir,n.tnr il='*- 4
21, C. a1 ' r. ,n  -  I.rua l . ti d -in ict.i.n  Irroi-h h.-h.i.         *c   r    ,
-Wau ie m.nI *h: rin , i,nIir.
,Nir N ..LrAll'0 . icqu l r. pr(nlr.0ir..iari- ic- 4. T.tmeni
4S  C-h  Inlki Vi r,i-Iiani-
cause domestic demand slowed, and, more             amounted to 3.1 percent of GDP. The trade
recently, declined. Consequently, the resource      balance of the eight countries ranged from    a
balances of Argentina and, especially, Brazil       trade deficit of 1.4 percent of GDP in Venezu-
with the rest of the world showed a large           ela to a surplus of 5.3 percent in Chile. A trade
surplus over the past eighteen months.              surplus, by definition, means that part of out-
The aggregate resource, or trade, balance of      put is not used for domestic consumption and
the region in 1988 showed a surplus of $25.6        investment, and that it is used either by the
billion, an increase of $7.1 billion over the       public or the private sector to accumulate
average of 1986-87. Box 6-1 reports on esti-        foreign assets (international reserves in the
mates of the resource balance for 1986-88 and       case of central banks), or to transfer resources
its uses. For the eight highly indebted coun-       to foreign creditors and investors. While Chile,
tries reported on in the box, the GDP-weighted      Colombia, and Uruguay were able to accumu-
trade  surplus  over that three-year period         late reserves, other countries used reserves,



134   1989 Regional Perspectives
especially Venezuela, where both the trade  that are not accounted for in the balance of
deficit and part of the net transfer to creditors  payments.
were financed by depleting reserves. The use  The region's net transfer to foreign creditors
of international reserves and the trade surplus  has been significant in the past three years, and
for the eight countries amounted to 3.6 percent  most highly indebted countries have had to
of GDP over 1986-88.                        generate a large trade surplus to finance this
The net transfer to long-term creditors from  transfer. Measures of the trade surplus at cur-
the eight countries considered in Box 6-1   rent prices do not take account of the deterio-
amounted to 4.4 percent of GDP over the     ration in the terms of trade in relation to
1986-88 period. This transfer was exception-  1979-81, which is still significant for oil-ex-
ally high in the case of Chile (13.3 percent of  porting countries. But no clear relationship is
GDP) because of a significant reduction of debt  evident between the trade surplus and eco-
with commercial banks through buybacks and  nomic performance in 1986-88. In particular,
capitalizations (around 7.5 percent of GDP).  there is no indication that the trade surplus was
The transfers from  Mexico and Venezuela    an obstacle to the sustained recovery of output.
were also well above the average for the eight  On the one hand, Chile, which has a trade
countries. There was a net transfer from long-  surplus well above that of the other highly
term creditors only to Ecuador (estimated at  indebted countries, has been recovering; Co-
0.9 percent of GDP), mainly because of arrears  lombia has also continued to grow while gen-
in capital and interest payments (around 3.6  erating a trade surplus larger, relative to GDP,
percent of GDP over 1986-88) and emergency  than some highly indebted countries. On the
loans granted after the 1987 earthquake. It is  other hand, the deceleration of growth in Ar-
estimated that the public sector of debtor coun-  gentina and Brazil since 1987 has taken place at
tries transferred 2.7 percent of GDP to long-  a time when export earnings have reached
term creditors, while the private sector trans-  record levels; further, Argentina's net transfer
ferred 1.7 percent of GDP. The private sector's  to creditors since early 1988 has been lower
transfer through debt buybacks and capitaliza-  than at any time during the past six years. Over
tions was important in Brazil, Chile, and Mex-  the past three years, the major oil-exporting
ico. From the viewpoint of creditors, an esti-  countries of the region have pursued different
mated 4 percent of debtor countries' GDP was  strategies for adjusting to the fall in oil prices,
transferred to commercial banks, of which 2.8  but the need for servicing their external debt
percent was in the form of interest payments.  has not been the decisive factor in defining the
For the eight countries, the net transfer to  strategies. Venezuela was able to support eco-
long-term creditors was 0.8 percentage points  nomic growth until late 1988 by depleting in-
of GDP larger than the total surplus generated  ternational reserves. Mexico made a quick
over the 1986-88 period. Foreign investors  adjustment to the fall in the price of oil; al-
provided the additional resources (an esti-  though adjustment has not yet resulted in a
mated 0.7 percent of GDP). Only three coun-  sustained recovery, it has generated a signifi-
tries clearly deviated from that pattern.   cant trade surplus to service its debt. Ecuador,
In Chile, the net transfer to creditors was  where troubles were aggravated by the 1987
much larger than the total surplus (around 9  earthquake, is still attempting to put together a
percent of GDP), and financing involved the  strategy and has not been able to service its
attraction of significant capital inflows from  debt.
foreign investors and other private sources.  The analysis of export earnings and resource
The growing inflow of capital allowed Chile to  transfers in the period 1986-88 highlights three
reduce its external debt without pressing do-  issues. First, export earnings have increased
mestic interest rates upwards. In Venezuela,  enough to ease significantly the foreign-ex-
the net transfer to creditors was also larger  change constraint. Except in the oil-exporting
than the total surplus (above 4 percent of  countries, the process of restoring per capita
GDP), but there was little net inflow of foreign  output, income, and consumption to levels that
capital. Venezuela's private sector was able to  had prevailed during the 1979-81 period is no
service external debt with earnings from hold-  longer constrained by the availability of foreign
ings of foreign assets, which are not accounted  exchange. Second, the trade surplus has been
for in the balance of payments. Finally, the net  increasingly responding to domestic policies
financial transfer from creditors to Ecuador  rather than to the availability of foreign capital
implied a resource transfer only in 1987, when  and to debt-service strategies. The capital con-
the trade balance showed a deficit. Over the  straint has been eased in countries whose
1986-88 period, Ecuador had a trade surplus  sound fiscal policies are attracting both na-
and a net transfer from creditors, and, there-  tional and foreign capital, the latter from vari-
fore, there should have been capital outflows  ous sources other than commercial banks,



Latin America and the Caribbean  135
including neighboring countries. Third, not-    tion of real revenue from    a given rate of
withstanding the significance of the net trans-  monetary growth. To a lesser extent, Ecuador
fer to long-term creditors, its actual amount is  has also experienced the same problems, since
increasingly becoming a residual variable de-    the government has relied on both monetary
termined-through negotiations or unilateral      expansion and domestic borrowing to finance
actions-by the resources available to the pub-   the primary deficit, although real interest rates
lic  sector.  In  particular,  debt-reduction    have remained negative as a result of controls
schemes have taken care of most of the private   on nominal rates and a lagged adjustment to
sector's long-term external debt and contrib-    the unexpected acceleration of inflation.
uted to focus the debt problem on the capacity     In contrast with the experience of Argentina
of the public sector to generate a surplus to    and Brazil, Mexico has largely overcome the
service its debts.                               high costs of relying on monetary expansion
and transfers from domestic creditors by deep-
Public Finances, Internal Transfers,             ening, since late 1987, the adjustment of the
and Debt Service                                 public sector. The public sector's primary sur-
While the public sector has effectively trans-  plus is large enough today for the government
ferred resources to foreign creditors in an      to transfer resources to both domestic and
amount equivalent to 3 percent of GDP over       foreign creditors (interest payments are larger
1986-88, in most countries it has not been able  than net borrowings from  each set of credi-
to generate a primary surplus larger than that   tors). But because the primary surplus is not
fraction of GDP.7 In none of the highly in-      large enough to finance the interest bill, the
debted countries is the public sector's primary  total debt of the public sector has kept grow-
surplus large enough to finance all interest     ing. Given the already extensive adjustment,
payments on domestic and external debt; thus,    including large reductions in real wages and
total public debt has continued to increase at   investment, of Mexico's public sector, the
least in nominal value, and, in some countries,  potential for further adjustment is limited. It is
in real value, as well. In 1988, as a result of the  in this context that new options for managing
large unexpected increase in the price of cop-   Mexico's external debt will have to be identi-
per, Chile's public sector could have generated  fied and assessed.
a primary surplus larger than interest pay-        The experience of Chile and Colombia,
ments, but the government opted to reduce        where recovery has been sustained over the
taxes. In Colombia and Mexico, the public        past three years, has been quite different. The
sector has also been generating a primary        public sector's primary surplus may have been
surplus, albeit one that is smaller than total   lower than the resource transfer to foreign
interest payments. In other highly indebted      creditors in these two countries, but it was
countries, the public sector has not yet gener-  large enough to enable domestic resources to
ated a primary surplus.                          be mobilized to finance the gap without press-
The difficulty the public sector has had in   ing interest rates upwards. Revenue from mon-
generating a surplus to finance the transfer of  etary expansion is not insignificant, but the
resources to foreign creditors means that its    two governments have avoided its use as the
own financing has had to come from      three    residual source of financing. Furthermore, do-
sources: international reserves, a net transfer  mestic financial markets have satisfied the
from domestic creditors (net borrowings larger   limited borrowing demands of the public sector
than interest payments on the public sector's    without pressing interest rates to rise. Both
domestic debt), and monetary expansion. Each
of these sources is essentially temporary.
The limits of using reserves was shown by       The public sector is defined inclusive of central banks and
the experience of Venezuela, which depleted       all state-owned enterprises. The primary, or noninterest,
them in 1988. In Argentina and Brazil, trans-     balance is equal to the difference between total public
fers from domestic creditors resulted in larger   revenues and total public expenditures net of interest
increases in outstanding domestic d , wpayments. A primary surplus then means that revenues are
increases in outstanding domestic debt, with      larger than expenditures net of total interest payments. It
attendant increasing pressures on real interest   can be calculated by subtracting total interest payments
rates. This situation became unsustainable be-    from the public-sector borrowing requirement. Financial
cause both governments borrowed to pay a          information about the consolidated public sector (inclusive
of central banks and public enterprises) is not good enough
growing interest bill on domestic debt and        to allow comparison with the statistics used in Box 6-1.
created further financial distress in the private  Because of the lack of appropriate data in the text, the
sector. In both countries, monetary expansion     primary surplus is defined as an excess of (a) the sum of
led to accelerated inflation, to the point of     interest payments on government's domestic debt and
interest payments on the public-sector's long-term exter-
triggering hyperinflation, which eventually re-   nal debt over (b) the sum of the public-sector's borrowing
duced the demand for money and the collec-        requirement and the central bank's losses.



136   1989 Regional Perspectives
Chile and Colombia have been able to accumu-  Venezuela, the second largest recipient of ad-
late some reserves over the past three years.  justment lending, received assistance to help
In sum, the recent experience of the region's  restore the competitiveness of national produc-
highly indebted countries highlights the critical  tion, improve public-sector management, and
importance of the internal transfer of re-  target social programs.
sources. The primary surplus of the public    The Bank continued to provide substantial
sector in Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, and Ven-  traditional investment loans, as well. Brazil
ezuela will have to increase-as has happened  and Argentina received the most commitments
in Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Uruguay-if  of IBRD funds. In Brazil, project lending in-
governments no longer are to rely on unsus-  cluded support for malaria control, decentral-
tainable domestic sources to finance the trans-  ized urban development, and irrigation. In
fer to foreign creditors. An increase in the  Argentina, Bank projects supported the hous-
primary surplus will require further adjust-  ing and electric-power sectors, as well as the
ments in public-sector revenues and expendi-  strengthening of tax administration. In other
tures, compatible with efficiency in resource  countries, project lending supported the ex-
allocation and tax collection. Additional taxa-  pansion of infrastructure and housing, as well
tion should not introduce new distortions, and  improvements in urban services and in the
public expenditures that complement private  social sectors.
investment and that protect the poorest groups  The Bank further strengthened the economic
in the population should be maintained. This  policy dialogue with its Latin American and
limits the speed at which the primary surplus  Caribbean borrowers by expanding its eco-
can be efficiently increased. Thus, at least  nomic and sector work. This work focused on
during the transition to a sustainable level of  four fundamental themes: macroeconomic is-
primary surplus, the amount of the external  sues of stabilization and growth, sectoral and
transfer will have to be limited. In countries  institutional reform, external finance, and is-
where the public sector is overindebted-    sues of transition to sustained growth that cut
where even substantial efforts to undertake  across all of the economic and sector work.
adjustments will not be enough to generate the  Bank lending and policy advice has paid
primary surplus needed to pay fully the interest  special attention to the need to retarget subsi-
bill on outstanding debt-creditors will have to  dies and provide social services to the poorest
share the burden of fiscal adjustment through  groups in the areas of food programs, health,
debt-service relief.                        and primary education. This need has become
particularly important in Bolivia, Colombia,
Activities of the Bank, Fiscal 1989         Guatemala, Jamaica, and Venezuela.
The Bank increased its lending program to
the region in fiscal 1989 by 11 percent over  Cooperation and Cofinancing
fiscal 1988 amounts. Total lending commit-    The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
ments for forty-three operations were $5.8  Economic Development (CGCED) had an-
billion, an amount $578 million above fiscal  other successful year in providing a productive
1988 totals. Gross disbursements to countries  forum for economic policy dialogue and for
in the region were $3.4 billion, a decrease of  coordinating external financing assistance to
$817 million over fiscal 1988. Gross disburse-  its developing member countries. It has also
ments for the four-year period, fiscal 1985-89  facilitated regional efforts of the Caribbean
totaled more than $18 billion, for an annual  countries to promote private investment, tour-
average of $4,517 million. Since interest paid to  ism, trade, agricultural diversification and de-
the Bank has increased along with the region's  velopment, health, and a variety of other ac-
outstanding debt, net transfers from the region  tivities; and it has heightened awareness of the
to the Bank further increased. Table 6-13   environment as a necessary element of sustain-
shows the net transfers to the region as a whole  able development.
and to its three most populous countries.     Following the hurricane that struck Jamaica
More than half, some 53 percent, of Bank  on September 12, 1988, the Bank organized,
commitments were in the form of adjustment  under the auspices of the CGCED, a special
lending to support economic policy reforms  donors' meeting in Berlin (West) during the
aimed at consolidating macroeconomic stabil-  Bank's annual meetings to help the govern-
ity and enhancing allocative efficiency. Adjust-  ment mobilize the financial support needed for
ment lending in Mexico, the largest recipient of  its reconstruction effort. The CGCED forum
this type of lending, supported policy reforms  was also instrumental in helping the govern-
in the financial system, the area of industrial  ment of Guyana mobilize the needed financial
regulation. and the restructuring of public en-  assistance in support of its economic-reform
terprises and some manufacturing sectors.   program.



Latin America and the Caribbean  137
Table 6-1,. Net Transfers to Latin America and the Caribbean
n.ilIons ci L i  -ollaru t--  I,.,l *
I[Cn;     1~~~~~~~~~~ "N r4>;v  1|1  I JA            P4 ,% !e  u 1u      4-
IhRD iand IDA
comm  nii eni  7(l1 l]  6.4 -11 i  '.211 11  -F 1 ii     ;.11      F.'.-  I  24.35  5
t,iros~
di,bur,emenis  X! 2      'Sip       S I .YI V  9  .  4 4  I  .13  I  3 4    I A. IIr.
Rep%nleienI'     93h,     3.i15 -  h_t-  2  .4f 11  I    4   h'.'l 4  it i      4'-in
Nei
disburs,tmenls  I 1114 hl  1.'34  6 ' ,I  4i 1 34  274  1  1.4? ,- l3 11     R.r,44 h
InLete'st Jnd
chur-e;        (,76   3 1  2s.-5.  S in.3  2 I .3  I '2.4  4'P' 5  2.14h h f   2  . !
Nei Etranter     7'dt91  I 1 49.i1 7. I ' h .1  1 i t,  ..,
*iITF  Di,hulrcmeni, from  the ID x Sree  d Furl, .re cc I.rdd. The corinir lI-. ho  n ir. Ih h  hl': Arc ihn e  1h I hle iorecl
vmpul.-oon rhe retzonrl r,rin!. !ndu. urr,nt  r.,, e,n .',.i, Det rlk rTAr n-:.r Add 1. "Alh " vlLl; .M r.Ar,.i
At the ninth meeting of the Ad Hoc Advisory  fiscal 1989 catalyzed about $0.35 as opposed to
Committee of the CGCED, held on May 12,      $0.24 in fiscal 1988.
1989, at Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago,   Japan remained the most important source
representatives of Jamaica, Guyana. and Trin-  of cofinancing in the region, participating in the
idad and Tobago presented their governments'  largest number of projects and contributing the
economic programs. These presentations af-   largest individual share of total cofinancing
forded the donor community an advance notice  funds. The Export-Import Bank of Japan and
of those programs and of the level of external  Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
financing needed.                            remained by far the most important sources of
The volume of cofinancing associated with  untied cofinancing for adjustment lending.
Bank operations to countries in the region in  While official sources of cofinancing re-
fiscal 1989 amounted to $2,141 million for   mained dominant in the region during fiscal
nineteen operations, a substantial increase  1989. it should be noted that cofinancing by
over fiscal 1988. The catalytic effect of the  export-credit agencies almost doubled. How-
Bank's lending improved, also, in relative   ever, no cofinancings with private-sector
terms: Every U.S. dollar lent to the region in  sources were realized during the year.



00
I  ¾                                           4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
'CC)S: -Kz N1.                                        r s                   =r'sa Q
C-O            F                                                              -"



139
Section Seven
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD, IDA,
and African Facility Assistance in Fiscal Year 1989
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in This Section
ADF-African Development Fund                 FINNIDA-Finnish Intemational Development
AfDB-African Development Bank                   Agency
AFESD-Arab Fund for Economic and Social      GTZ-German Technical Assistance Corporntion
Development                                IDB-Inter-American Development Bank
AIDAB-Australian International Development   IFAD-Intemational Fund for Agricultural
Assistance Bureau                            Development
AsDB-Asian Development Bank                  IsDB-Islamic Development Bank
ASEAN-Association of Southeast Asian         ITU-Intemational Telecommunications Union
Nations                                    KFAED-Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
BADEA-Arab Bank for Economic                    Development
Development in Africa                      KfW-Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
BDEAC-Banque de Developpement des Etats      NORAD-Norwegian Agency for Intemational
de l'Afrique Centrale                        Development
BITS-Swedish Agency for Intemational         ODA-Overseas Development Administration
Technical and Economic Cooperation         OECF-Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
CCCE-Caisse Centrale de Cooperation          OPEC-Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Economique                                   Countries
CDC-Commonwealth Development                 SDC-Swiss Development Corporation
Corporation                                SIDA-Swedish Intemational Development
CIDA-Canadian Intemational Development          Authority
Agency                                     UNCDF-United Nations Capital Development
COFACE-Compagnie fran,caise d'Assurance        Fund
pour le Commerce                           UNDP-United Nations Development
DANIDA-Danish Intemational Development          Programme
Agency                                     UNFPA-United Nations Fund for Population
EDF-European Development Fund                   Activities
EEC-European Economic Community              UNHCR-Office of the United Nations High
EIB-European Investment Bank                    Commissioner for Refugees
Eurofima-European Company for the            UNICEF-United Nations Children's Fund
Financing of Railway Rolling Stock         USAID-United States Agency for
FAC-Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation              Intemational Development
FAO-Food and Agriculture Organization of     WFP-World Food Programme
the United Nations                         WHO-World Health Organization
Agriculture and Rural Development                  from the Export-Import Bank of Japan. Total
ALGERIA: IBRD-$110 million. About 38,000           cost: $569 million.
people are to benefit directly from increased farm  ALGERIA: IBRD-$58 million. In support of a
incomes. and about 340.000 mandays of hired     desert locust-control project, which seeks to
employment could be generated through a project  minimize, if not avert, economic disruption to
that will complete an existing irrigation scheme  some 39.7 million hectares of the country's
in the north of the country and support newly   productive lands and to protect the livelihood of
created groups of private farmers with onfarm   almost 12 million people, funds will be provided
irrigation development and services. Total cost:  for equipment, vehicles, leasing of aircraft.
$425.9 million.                                 strengthening of national locust-control
ALGERIA: IBRD-$ 110 million. Finance will be       capabilities, FAO-approved pesticides, technical
provided to the Banque de l'Agriculture et du   assistance, and training. Total cost: $112 million.
D6veloppement Rural (BADR) for onlending for
onfarm and agroindustrial investments.
Institution-building assistance to the BADR is  Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation
included. Cofinancing ($110 million) is expected  provided at the time of project approval.



140   Summaries of Projects Approved
BRAZIL: IBRD-$71 million. The development of  CHINA: IDA-$ 106 million. Farm production and
irrigated agriculture on some 23,600 hectares is  incomes will be increased in Shaanxi province,
expected to increase agricultural production,  one of the country's poorest, through a program
improve small- and medium-sized farmers'      of investments in irrigation, other rural
incomes, and create employment opportunities in  infrastructure, and in agricultural services. In
the northeastern portion of Minas Gerais state,  addition, some 130.000 people will be provided
Total cost: $158 million.                     safe and secure drinking water. Total cost:
BRAZIL: IBRD-$63 million. Productivity should   $237.5 million.
increase, the net incomes of as many as 165,500  EGYPT. ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$40
farmers in Parana state improve, and state natural  million. The country will be assisted in
resources be safeguarded through the increased  modernizing and expanding the agricultural-
adoption of sustainable modern forms of land  storage infrastructure, as well as in improving the
management and soil and water conservation.   handling of agricultural inputs, grains, and
Total cost: $138.3 million.                   animal feed through appropriate mechanization
BURKINA FASO: IDA-$42 million. An               and the training of storage personnel. Total cost:
agricultural services project seeks to improve the  $103.1 million.
effectiveness and impact of agricultural and  ETHIOPIA: IDA-$85 million. Support for the
livestock extension services in transferring  government's reform-minded peasant
technology to farmers, to strengthen animal-  agricultural-development program, which has
health services and adaptive-research programs,  considerably liberalized grain marketing, will
and provide functional literacy training to   help sustain the movement toward improving the
farmers. Total cost: $44.9 million.           sector's incentive framework, facilitate the
BURUNDI: IDA-$33. 1 million. A hybrid           productive response among peasants, and
operation will both deepen the adjustment     mobilize support from other donors. Total cost:
process in the agricultural sector (through   $118.6 million.
promoting the involvement of the private sector  GHANA: IDA-$39.4 million. A forest-resource
and cooperatives in sustainable agricultural input  management project aims at stabilizing forestry
delivery) and provide investment finance to   production and export earnings, promoting
strengthen agricultural research and the country's  conservation and tree planting so as to counteract
agricultural-extension services (through design  fuelwood shortages and ecological deterioration,
and establishment of a system based on        and strengthen sector institutions. Cofinancing is
training-and-visit principles). Cofinancing is  expected from DANIDA ($8.3 million) and the
expected from Belgium ($800,000) and          ODA ($7.1 million). Total cost: $64.6 million.
France/the EDF ($400,000). Total cost: $40  GHANA: IDA-$20 million. Privately owned rural
million.                                      banks, credit unions, and informal savings and
CAMEROON: IBRD-$34.6 million. A livestock-      loan associations will be supported through a line
sector development project aims at increasing  of credit to enable them to mobilize more
meat and milk production, raising producer    deposits and increase the flow of credit to the
incomes, and at reducing the government's     economy's largest and most important sector-
financial burden resulting from its services to the  agriculture. Technical assistance is included.
livestock sector through a combination of policy  Cofinancing is anticipated from the OPEC Fund
reforms and investments. Cofinancing is       for International Development ($5 million), as
expected from IFAD ($10.8 million), the EDF   well as the GTZ and CIDA ($3.9 million). Total
($1.9 million), and the FAC ($1.6 million). Total  cost: $38 million.
cost: $55.2 million.                        GUINEA: IDA-$18.4 million. The first five-year
CHINA: IDA-$ 109 million. The incomes of more   phase of a long-term plan for developing and
than 1.5 million families are likely to increase  strengthening research, extension, and farmer
through a project designed to assist the Shandong  organizations in the country will be financed.
provincial government in its efforts to accelerate  Cofinancing is anticipated from the EDF ($6.1
the development of its unproductive coastal   million), IFAD ($1.9 million), and the FAC ($1.6
lowlands for culture fisheries, intensify crop  million). Total cost: $30.9 million.
production in existing low-yielding areas,  HONDURAS: IBRD-$25 million. A fourth
increase the value of livestock production and  agricultural-credit project will not only provide
processing in the Tuhai river basin, and upgrade  funds to a vital sector, but will also improve the
the production and processing of small livestock  rural credit system by rationalizing interest rates,
in the Yi Meng poverty area (one of the poorest  imposing monitorable and enforceable
in China), thus providing productive employment  performance criteria by financial intermediaries,
(primarily for women), alleviating poverty, and  and identifying and promoting innovative ways
reducing income disparities. Total cost: $272.3  to channel more credit to low-income producers.
million.                                      Total cost: $39.6 million.



Agriculture and Rural Development  141
INDIA: IBRD-$ 165 million; IDA-$160 million.   MADAGASCAR: IDA-$24 million. The first
Agricultural production, incomes, and direct   seven-year phase of a long-term support program
employment opportunities will be increased for  to strengthen national agricultural research and
some 40,000 farm families through the          make agricultural research more responsive to
expansion of irrigation in Karnataka state's   the needs of producers will be financed.
drought-prone north. In addition, the means for  Cofinancing ($10.4 million) is anticipated from
the physical relocation and reestablishment of the  France, the Federal Republic of Germany,
social and economic resource base for the      USAID, the SDC. the AfDB, and IFAD. Total
population displaced as a consequence of the   cost: $70.6 million.
project will be provided. Institution-building  MALAWI: IDA-$ 18.3 million. The marketing of
assistance is included. Total cost: $542 million.  smallholder crops will be improved through
INDIA: IBRD-$30 million; IDA-$ 147 million.      support for the government's efforts to develop a
About 510,000 full-time jobs will be created   multichannel marketing system that encourages
through a national sericulture project that seeks  private-sector participation in agricultural trade.
to increase productivity and product quality;  Total cost: $28.3 million.
improve government supporting services and   MALAYSIA: IBRD-$71.5 million. The
facilities; and promote the operation, on a    government will be helped in implementing the
commercial basis, of public-sector grainage    Sahabat land-settlement program in East Sabah,
facilities and the involvement of the private  with emphasis on consolidation and settlement of
sector in other aspects of the industry.       already planted areas. In addition, the
Cofinancing is expected from the SDC ($25      implementation of an environmental-
million). Total cost: $347.1 million.          management plan for the Dent peninsula,
INDIA: IDA-$150 million. By reorienting the      designed to strengthen management and
operations of selected public-sector seed      protection of wildlife reserves and institution
corporations along commercial lines,           building in Sabah, will be supported.
encouraging greater private initiative through the  Cofinancing ($500,000) is anticipated from the
provision of investment funds. and developing  UNDP. Total cost: $216 million.
the institutional environment to make it     MOROCCO: IBRD-$ 190 million. Through a line
conducive to long-term growth of the seed      of credit and institution-building assistance, the
industry, the development of a market-         National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) will
responsive, financially viable seed industry will  be assisted in adapting its organization and
be promoted. Total cost: $177.5 million.       procedures so that it can be responsive to an
INDONESIA: IBRD-$ 118.2 million. Some            accelerating investment rate by the private sector
60,000 families are to benefit from a tree-crop  in the rural areas of the country. Cofinancing is
processing project that seeks to raise the     being discussed with the OECF ($ 100 million),
efficiency of the tree-crop subsector, increase  the AfDB ($70 million), the EIB ($60 million),
smallholder and estate incomes, promote regional  the KfW ($38 million), and the AFESD ($30
development, and increase exports of palm oil  million). Total cost: $1,532 million.
and rubber. Technical assistance is included.  MOROCCO: IBRD-$28 million. At least 130,000
Cofinancing ($1.8 million) is expected from    small farmers are to benefit from a project that
Japan's grant facility. Total cost: $239 million.  comprises a first, five-year time slice of a
INDONESIA: IBRD-$35.3 million. The               ten-year program to reform research and
efficiency and relevance of the agricultural-  extension services. Cofinancing, in the amount of
research system for promoting continued,       $15.6 million, is anticipated from the KfW, the
sustained agricultural development will be     GTZ, and France. Total cost: $60.8 million.
increased through operational support of critical  NEPAL: IDA-$30.5 million. People and resources
elements of the ongoing research program and   in Nepal's hill districts will be mobilized to
the introduction of institutional and management  establish a forest-management system that would
reforms to improve research. Cofinancing ($3.4  conserve and expand the forest resources needed
million) is expected from Japan. Total cost:   to sustain traditional farming systems and
$50.4 million.                                 livelihoods. Cofinancing is expected from
KENYA: IDA-$20.8 million. New technologies       DANIDA ($6.9 million) and the UNDP
and management methods, designed to raise the  ($500,000, which is a part of an ongoing $2.3
productivity of smallholder farmers, get more out  million project). Total cost: $45.4 million.
of severely constrained land resources, and, at the  NIGERIA: IDA-$ 100.9 million. Some 1.2
same tirne, promote environmental conservation,  million smallholder farm families are to benefit
will be tested through a set of small-scale    from a project that provides funds for
subprojects. Cofinancing ($5 million) is       strengthening extension services, onfarm
anticipated from the UNDP. Total cost: $35.5   adaptive research and technology testing,
million.                                       irrigation and rural water-supply works, farming



142    Summaries of Projects Approved
and fishing inputs, road rehabilitation and  SENEGAL: IDA-$16.1 million. Funds and
maintenance, a training program for agricultural  technical services will be channeled in this
cooperatives, technical assistance, and training.  second small rural operations project to small
Total cost: $159.4 million.                    groups of rural people who will undertake to
NIGERIA: IBRD-$85.2 million. Statewide           provide labor and some funds for the
agricultural-development programs (ADPs) in    development of several types of directly
four states will be assisted in this first of a future  productive agricultural activities. Cofmancing
series of ADPs that aims directly to support the  ($5 million) is expected from IFAD. Total cost:
objectives of renewed agricultural growth with  $26.1 million.
progress on the long-run sustainability of   SOMALIA: IDA-$70 million. Recurrent import
agricultural expenditures and institutions. Total  requirements of the economy will be financed in
cost: $125 million.                            support of significant policy reforms that include
PAKISTAN: IBRD-$200 million. An agricultural-    the continuation of reform in foreign-exchange
sector adjustment loan has been designed to    policies, the decontrol of the financing system.
support the government's efforts to promote    the elimination of subsidies on diesel fuel and
competitive agriculture and enhance sustainable  tractor rentals, the liberalization of all
productivity and growth through the mobilization  agricultural marketing, the improvement of land-
of domestic resources, the rationalization of  tenure institutions, and the expansion of private-
investment programs in the agriculture and water  sector participation in supplying and distributing
sectors, and the introduction of institutional  inputs and services to the economy. Cofinancing
improvements.                                  is expected from the ADF ($25 million) and the
PAKISTAN: IDA-$40 million. In the wake of two    BITS ($500,000).
devastating floods that occurred in 1988,    SOMALIA: IDA-$19 million. The second phase
selected flood-damaged irrigation, drainage,   of a project designed to maintain and improve the
flood-protection, and road infrastructure will be  long-term productivity of the country's central
restored. Total cost: $55.6 million.           rangelands and the living standards of
PAKISTAN: IDA-$34.4 million. The viability of    pastoralists will be pursued through steps taken
an integrated private tubewell-development     to minimize the degradation of vegetation,
program, designed to increase agricultural     improve on the understanding of rangeland
production. will be tested through the provision  production systems, and increase the productive
of a coordinated incentive package of          efficiency of livestock. Cofinancing ($11 million)
electrification, credit, and supporting services to  is anticipated from the ADF. Total cost: $33.3
predominantly small farmers. Technical         million.
assistance is included. Total cost: $50.3 million.  SRI LANKA: IDA-$19.9 million. The
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD-$ 19.6 million.           implementation of a five-year time slice
Constraints to investment stemming from the    (1990-94) of the country's forestry master plan
inability of the govermment to identify, mobilize,  will be supported through a forest-sector
and transfer lands with productive potential will  development project that seeks to improve the
be addressed through a project designed to     performance of the sector in line with the
improve the management of land administration.  economic, social, and environmental
Cofinancing ($6.4 million) is expected from    expectations of the govemment. Cofinancing
Australia. Total cost: $42.8 million.          ($2.8 million) is anticipated from FINNIDA.
PORTUGAL: IBRD-$90 million. To help make         Total cost: $31.4 million.
the country's agricultural sector more       ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES:
competitive and efficient within the larger EEC  IBRD-$1.4 million; IDA-$1.4 million.
market, the agricultural-production structure of  Through a program of divestiture of state-owned
the Tras-os-Montes region will be transformed  land to small-scale farmers, improvements to
by focusing on investments in the most         farm-access roads, and technical assistance and
productive areas of Chavez. Terra Quente. and  training, growth and diversification of
the Douro valley and on privatization of the   agricultural production will be promoted and
sector. Cofinancing ($213.1 million) is expected  income distribution of smallholder farmers
from the EEC. Total cost: $415.8 million.      improved. Total cost: $4 million.
RWANDA: IDA-$19.9 million. Some 168,000        SUDAN: IDA-$20 million. A project in south
farm families are to benefit from a project    Kassala province seeks to increase crop and
designed to improve agricultural productivity, as  livestock production on a sustainable basis,
well as farmer incomes and nutrition, through  improve enviromnental management, and
better and more cost-effective delivery of     promote greater economic self-reliance among
agricultural services (adaptive and onfarm     the 200,000 refugees sheltered there.
research, extension, seed production) on a     Cofinancing ($10 million) is anticipated from the
national scale. Total cost: $30.1 million.     UNHCR. Total cost: $34.4 million.



Development Finance Companies   143
TANZANIA: IDA-$25.1 million. Long-term          dam and its associated irrigation canals. Total
growth in the agricultural sector will be     cost: $27.9 million.
supported through a project that seeks to increase  YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
the nationwide production of cashewnuts for    OF: IDA-$ 12 million. Some 1,250 farm
export and the production of coconuts for the  families are to benefit directly from a third
domestic vegetable-oil market. Cofmancing is   agricultural project in the Wadi Hadramawt area
anticipated from the ODA ($6.3 million) and the  that will provide a program for consolidating,
Federal Republic of Germany ($5.7 million).   expanding, and ensuring sustained development
Total cost: $42.4 million.                     of land and water resources. Cofmancing is
TANZANIA: IDA-$18.4 million. Existing           anticipated from the KFAED ($11.9 million) and
extension services will be rehabilitated and  the AFESD ($8.5 million). Total cost: $41.8
consolidated into one efficient and cost-effective  million.
system able to disseminate appropriate      ZIMBABWE: IBRD-$36.3 million. An
agricultural technologies to farmers, thereby  agricultural-credit and export-promotion project
enabling them to increase production and rural  seeks to enable smallholders to increase the
incomes. Cofinancing ($8.8 million) is        production of food, as well as cash and export
anticipated from the ADF. Total cost: $30.4   commodities, while encouraging commercial
million.                                      farmers to diversify into export and import-
TANZANIA: IDA-$8.3 million. The first stage in  substitution crops for which they have a
the longer-temm process of rehabilitating the  comparative advantage. Cofinancing is expected
country's agricultural-research system, will be  from IFAD ($15 million), BADEA ($9.7
implemented: A consolidated and streamlined   million), Japan ($1.8 million), and New Zealand
organizational structure and management system  ($200,000). Total cost: $116.9 million.
for research will be put in place, staff trained,
institution-building assistance provided, some
priority programs rehabilitated, and a research  Development Finance Companies
maser lanpreard. ofiancngis expected  BOLIVIA: IDA-S 11.3 million. Supplemental
master plan prepared. Cofinancing iexctdfunds from IDA reflows will be provided to help
from the ADF ($8.2 million), the United
Kingdom ($2.9 million), the Netherlands ($2.7  finance the financial-sector adjustment credit,
million), and the Federal Republic of Germany  approved in fiscal 1988 in the amount of $70
($1.6 million). Total cost: $25.3 million.    million.
TUNISIA: IBRD-$84 million. The                CHINA: IBRD-$300 million. Through provision
implementation of the second phase of the      of industrial credit and technical assistance, the
government's medium-term agricultural-sector  China Investment Bank will be strengthened in
adjustment program-designed to maintain       both its traditional and new areas of activity, its
agricultural growth in a time of reduced public  resource base will be expanded and diversified,
resources-will be supported.                   and investments financed in the modernization
TURKEY: IBRD-$250 million. The lending and      and restructuring of light industry and in the
institutional-development program of the      removal of operational bottlenecks. Total cost:
Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), the        $460 million.
country's largest bank, will be supported. In  CHINA: IBRD-$ 154 million. Industrial-sector
addition to lending directly to farmers, the TCZB  weaknesses will be addressed at the provincial
will also channel funds to agricultural-credit  level through a project in Tianjin that will attempt
cooperatives, which lend primarily to small and  to assist the authorities there in the identification
medium-scale farmers. Total cost: $1,227 million.  and resolution of policy and system-reform
TURKEY: IBRD-$ 150 million. Lines of credit     issues in conjunction with specific enterprise-
will be provided to participating credit      level restructuring. Total cost: $227.6 million.
institutions for onlending as subloans to cover  THE GAMBIA: IDA-$ 10 million. An integrated
the direct and indirect foreign-exchange costs of  package of financial resources, training, and
private-sector agroindustry subprojects that are  technical assistance, designed to result in a
financially and economically viable. Technical  smaller and improved public sector, a healthier
assistance is included.                       financial system, and an invigorated small- and
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA-$15 million.           medium-sized enterprise sector, will be provided.
Agricultural institutions, primarily the Eastern  Total cost: $13.6 million.
Region Agricultural Development Authority and  GHANA: IDA-$30 million. A small and medium
the Agricultural Research Authority, will be  enterprise (SME) development project seeks to
strengthened in order to address the long-term  ease the constraints working against private
agricultural-development needs of the Eastern  SMEs. Technical assistance to SMEs, as well as
Region and provide for the early and efficient use  to governmental and nongovernmental
of the productive potential created by the Marib  organizations, is included. Cofinancing, in the



144   Summaries of Projects Approved
amount of $6.3 million, is being sought. Total  of promoting private industrial investment and
cost: $57.4 million.                          developing equity markets, will help finance
GHANA: IDA-$6.6 million. Supplemental funds     viable private industries through a network of
from IDA reflows will be provided to help     participating financial institutions (PFIs),
finance the financial-sector adjustment credit,  including four major commercial banks and
approved in fiscal 1988 in the amount of $ 100  three leading development banks. Technical
million.                                      assistance, aimed at accelerating the growth of
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA-$5 million. Income and       equity markets and capital-market institutions, as
employment opportunities among low-income     well as strengthening the PFIs, is included. Total
and unemployed urban and rural workers will be  cost: $298 million.
increased through support of activities having  PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$300 million. Support will
high economic and social rates of return.     be provided the country's financial-sector reform
Cofinancing, in the amount of $ 11 million, is  program, which aims at strengthening the
being sought. Total cost: $17 million.        financial system, in particular, the commercial-
INDIA: IBRD-$295 million. An integrated         banking segment. Cofinancing, in an amount
export-development program in four financial  equivalent or close to the Bank loan, is
institutions, which would help play a major role  anticipated from the Export-Import Bank of
in helping private-sector clients develop export  Japan.
plans for the production and marketing of their  SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE: IDA-$5 million.
products and in financing the resulting       The social and economic cost of structural
investments, will be supported. Cofinancing   adjustment and economic decline will be
($2.7 million) is expected from Japan. Total cost:  mitigated through a multisector project that seeks
$730.4 million.                               to generate income and employment
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:               opportunities for low-income and
IDA-$ 10 million. Small and medium-sized      underemployed urban and rural households and
rehabilitation and expansion projects, mainly in  supports the development of the country's
light industry. will be financed. In addition,  emerging private sector. Cofinancing. in the
technical assistance and training will be provided  amount of $2 million, is being sought. Total cost:
to the State Bank of the Lao PDR and various  $8 million.
borrowing enterprises. Cofinancing ($600,000)  SRI LANKA: IDA-$43.8 million. Funds will be
will be provided by France. Total cost: $10.6  channeled to private industries, the country's
million.                                      credit-delivery system strengthened, and issues
MEXICO: IBRD-$500 million. The government's    that constrain development of a more efficient
objectives of stabilizing the economy and     private manufacturing sector addressed.
restoring growth will be supported through a  Cofinancing ($40.5 million) is expected from the
program that includes measures to reinforce the  AsDB. Total cost: $124.3 million.
government's fiscal efforts, consolidate reforms  VENEZUELA: IBRD-$353 million. The first
in the financial sector, strengthen prudential  phase of the govemment's program of trade-
regulations and supervision, and reduce interest  policy reforms to improve domestic efficiency
subsidies and fiscal transfers for them. Technical  and international competitiveness will be
assistance is included.                       supported.
MOROCCO: IBRD-$23 million. The                ZAIRE: IDA-$20 million. Technical assistance
government's structural-adjustment reform     will be provided to Gecamines, the country's
measures will be carried out more efficiently  leading mining company and foreign-exchange
through a project that provides assistance in  earner, to help it reduce costs, improve operating
introducing improved financial and operational  efficiency, accelerate its current rehabilitation
management practices. Operational support to  program, and prepare the next stage of that
the government will be extended, as well,     program. Total cost: $30 million.
through financing consulting and advisory
services, training and workshop activities, and  Education
equipment. Total cost: $39.8 million.       THE BAHAMAS: IBRD-$10 million. Policies
PAKISTAN: IBRD-$ 150 million. The               will be implemented and institutions developed
government's financial-sector reform program,  for the management and financing of training
which aims at broadening and deepening        that would make more efficient use of available
financial markets so as to support an expansion  public and private training resources. In addition,
of private investment and savings, will be    planning of post-secondary education will be
assisted.                                    improved, training capacity primarily for the
PAKISTAN: IBRD-$ 148 million; IDA-$2            hotel and tourism sectors will be upgraded and
million. A third industrial-investment credit  expanded, training opportunities for adults and
project, which supports the govemment's policy  out-of-school youth expanded, and the efficiency



Education   145
and relevance of vocational training improved.  LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:
Total cost: $17.4 million.                     IDA-$3.5 million. The government's objective
CHAD: IDA-$22 million. An education-             of reducing shortages of professional manpower
rehabilitation project will address three priority  will be supported by training engineers in the
concerns: the sector's underfinancing and the  basic disciplines required for development and
need to ensure the sustainability and increase the  by rehabilitating and equipping the National
productivity of investments made by local      Polytechnic Institute. Cofmancing ($13 million)
communities; the poor leaming environment in   is anticipated from the SDC. Total cost: $18.7
primary education (dilapidated schools, lack of  million.
textbooks and classroom supplies, reliance on  MALAYSIA: IBRD-$58.8 million.
locally recruited and untrained teachers, and  Implementation of the government's education
insufficient teacher supervision and support);  sectoral policy and institution-building efforts
and the Ministry of Education's institutional  will be accelerated to improve the quality of
weaknesses. Total cost: $25.2 million.         education and the efficiency of education
CHINA: IDA-$57 million. Textbooks will be        management (through a national staff-
improved at all school levels through a project  development program), as well as to increase
that, by providing technical assistance and    access to better education (through
training to assist the development of publishing  implementation of a five-year investment
and printing institutions, as well as modem    program). Total cost: $159.8 million.
printing equipment for new and existing      MALDIVES: IDA-$8.2 million. By expanding
publishing facilities, will result in improved  the opportunities for higher-level training
textbooks with respect to educational          overseas and by increasing the capacity and
effectiveness, content, variety, and physical  improving the quality of secondary education
quality. Total cost: $114.6 million.           (including increased enrollment of females),
COLOMBIA: IBRD-$100 million. A second            skilled manpower shortages are expected to be
subsector project for primary education, which  alleviated. Total cost: $9.3 million.
focuses mainly on rural areas, seeks to improve  MALI: IDA-$26 million. The government will be
resource management and mobilization for       assisted in implementing an integrated package
primary education and to raise educational     of reforms and investments aimed at reshaping
quality at this level while further expanding  the country's unbalanced education system,
access by school-age children. Total cost: $169.2  improving its performance and relevance, and
million.                                       promoting a more cost-effective use of scarce
GUATEMALA: IBRD-$30 million. Through a           resources. Total cost: $56.2 million.
second basic-education project, net enrollment is  MAURITANIA: IDA-$ 18.2 million. Support will
to be increased, the quality and efficiency of  be given to the government's education strategy
lower primary education improved, and          that gives priority to expansion of, and quality
educational management strengthened. Total     improvements in, primary education and to the
cost: $68.3 million.                           restructuring of secondary and higher education
INDIA: IBRD-$30 million; IDA-$250 million.       in order to align the development of these two
This first-ever Bank-assisted vocational training  subsectors with current resource constraints and
project in the country seeks to improve the    trends in labor-market demands. Cofinancing
efficiency of industry by providing well-trained  ($17 million) is expected from the AfDB. Total
workers (attention will be paid to promoting   cost: $37.4 million.
training for women in modern sectors and     MOROCCO: IBRD-$83 million. Through the
high-tech trades) in relevant skill areas.     establishment and equipping of more than 11,600
Institution-building assistance is included. Total  new classrooms and related school facilities,
cost: $429.8 million.                          access to primary schooling in rural areas will be
INDONESIA: IBRD-$18.4 million. To bring          increased (in particular, for girls), as will
about improved tree-crops subsector            attendance, and the quality of primary education
productivity, institutional capacity to manage  will also be improved. Institution-building
human resources will be strengthened, and      assistance is included. Cofinancing ($40 million)
training for staff and farmers will be provided.  is anticipated from the AfDB. Total cost: $165
Total cost: $26.6 million.                     million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$16.4 million.        NEPAL: IDA-$22.8 million. Immediate
The government's priority for development in   assistance will be provided in support of the
technology-intensive sectors will be reinforced  government's program to reconstruct or
through assistance to improve the performance of  rehabilitate about 2,350 schools damaged by the
three national institutions involved in        August 1988 earthquake. In addition,
technological education and technical support  earthquake-resistant design features will be
services to industry. Total cost: $30 million.  introduced into the reconstructed schools, thus



146   Summaries of Projects Approved
improving their durability. Total cost: $30.2  development, will be supported. Cofinancing
million.                                      (DM26 million) is expected from the Federal
NEPAL: IDA-$ 11.4 million. The enrollment       Republic of Germany and, perhaps, Japan.
capacity of the technician program and of the  BANGLADESH: IDA-$87 million. The load
engineering degree program of the Institute of  growth in sixteen major towns up to the next ten
Engineering (IOE) will be increased through the  years will be met at least cost, system losses
construction and rehabilitation of facilities at the  reduced, and the quality and efficiency of
three IOE campuses, and the quality of        electricity supply improved. Institution-building
engineering education increased through staff  assistance to the Bangladesh Power Development
training, curricula improvements, provision of  Board is included. Total cost: $121.3 million.
educational materials, and the raising of   BRAZIL: IBRD-$94 million. A natural-gas
admission standards. Institution-building     distribution project seeks to substantially
assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated  increase the supply of natural gas to industrial,
from the SDC ($8.5 million) and CIDA ($4      commercial, and residential consumers in the
million). Total cost: $26 million.            Sao Paulo area, as well as to strengthen the
TUNISIA: IBRD-$95 million. The first phase of   management and organization of the Companhia
the government's reform program of the        de Gas de Sao Paulo. In addition, environmental
education and training system, designed to make  pollution in Sao Paulo will be reduced through
it more consistent with the country's medium-  the substitution of clean-burning natural gas for
term development needs, equitable, and cost-  other fuels. Total cost: $285 million.
effective, will be supported. Total cost: $183  CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA-$ 18
million.                                      million. Through the construction of a dam to
UGANDA: IDA-$22 million. A fourth education     hamess the hydroelectric potential of the M'Bali
project, designed primarily as a follow-up to the  river, the rehabilitation of the power system in
third project, seeks to continue the rehabilitation  Bangui, and provision of institution-building
of primary schools and the supply to them of  measures and technical assistance to the power
didactic materials and textbooks. In addition,  and petroleum subsectors, the first step will be
groundwork will be prepared for a more       taken in restructuring the country's energy sector.
comprehensive sector operation aimed at       Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($14.6
systemwide improvements. Total cost: $27.9    million), the CCCE ($13.3 million), BADEA and
million.                                      the OPEC Fund for Intemational Development
VANUATU: IDA-$8 million. Principal              ($8 million), the KFAED ($6.9 million), FAC
investments in primary and secondary education  ($4.8 million), and others, possibly including the
over the medium term will be financed, and    EDF ($2.7 million). Total cost: $75.7 million.
assistance in implementing the education-sector  DJIBOUTI: IDA-$9.2 million. Djibouti's
objectives of the government's five-year      dependence on imported fuel oil will be reduced
development plan provided. Cofinancing ($7.7  through the further development of its
million) is expected from the AIDAB. Total cost:  geothermal resources. Institutional-
$17.8 million.                                strengthening assistance is included.
Cofinancing is anticipated from Italy ($22
Energy                                          million) and the UNDP, together with the OPEC
ARGENTINA: IBRD-$252 million. Support will      Fund for Intemational Development ($1.4
be provided to help the government's electric  million). Total cost: $38 million.
power program meet the objectives of confining  EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$165
an expansion program to least-cost solutions,  million. The Egyptian Electricity Authority will
rehabilitating the finances of the national power  be assisted in alleviating power shortages,
utilities, promoting more rational use of    thereby meeting the growing demand for
electricity through a tariff system based on  electricity; acquiring technology, particularly in
economic costs, improving the efficiency of   high-efficiency, combined-cycle power plant
utilities, strengthening the institutional structure  construction and operation; and in implementing
of the sector, and establishing greater       a program to protect and improve the
environmental safeguards. Cofinancing ($250   environment. Institution-building assistance is
million) is being provided by the IDB. Total cost:  included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the
$2,352.7 million.                             AfDB ($124 million), the AFESD ($123
BANGLADESH: IDA-$175 million. The               million), the EIB ($57 million), and the IsDB
government's energy-reform program, which     ($15 million). Total cost: $848.5 million.
consists of a number of significant improvements  HAITI: IDA-$24 million. A fifth power project
in the areas of resource development and      seeks to provide power investments that are
investment, energy pricing and demand         urgently needed to ensure a reliable supply of
management, and institutional performance and  power necessary for economic growth, and, in



Energy   147
particular, for industrial and commercial   INDONESIA: IBRD-$337 million. A
activities. Institution-building assistance to  power-sector efficiency project seeks to improve
Electricite d'Haiti is included. Total cost: $30.1  the efficiency of operations of diesel power
million.                                      plants, renovate small hydro plants in Java,
HUNGARY: IBRD-$ 10 million. A project to        extend distribution facilities to supply about
develop and conserve energy is designed to     893,000 new customers, and augment the
support significant improvements in the policy  telecommunications facilities of the state
and institutional framework of the energy sector,  electricity corporation (PLN) in Java. Technical
development of the oil and gas sector, and     assistance to the PLN is included. Cofinancing
preparation of an updated energy-conservation  ($20 million) is expected from the Netherlands,
program and financing of related investments.  while an additional $67.6 million in cofinancing
Total cost: $680 million.                      is being sought. Total cost: $597 million.
INDIA: IBRD-$485 million. Assistance in        KENYA: IDA-$40.7 million. The country will be
meeting electricity demand in the northern     assisted in preparing the necessary expansion of
region will be provided through the addition of  its electricity-generating capacity at least cost
1,500 mW of hydro capacity. In addition to the  through the utilization of indigenous energy
construction of a power station at Nathpa Jhakri,  sources-in particular, the mobilization of a
the transmission and distribution system in   major geothermal program, to be implemented
Himachal Pradesh state will be reinforced and  over the next twenty years. Cofinancing, in the
expanded. Cofinancing, in the amount of $300   amount of $9.5 million, is under consideration
million, will be sought from bilateral donors,  from the ODA, Japan, the KfW, FINNIDA. and
suppliers' credits, and commercial banks. Total  CIDA. Total cost: $59.6 million.
cost: $1,474.6 million.                     MALAWI: IDA-$46.7 million. A 50-mW
INDIA: IBRD-$400 million. Power supply in the   hydroelectric power plant will be constructed
western region will be increased through the  and existing generating capacity rehabilitated so
construction of a 1,000-mW addition to the    as to maintain system efficiency. In addition, a
Koyna hydroelectric power plant and           woodfuel program, comprising nurseries, tree
transmission/distribution lines. In addition, the  plantations, forest management, and woodfuel
Maharashtra State Electricity Board's finances  conservation, will be extended. Cofinancing
and management-information system will be     ($17.6 million) is anticipated from Austria. Total
strengthened. Cofinancing. in the amount of   cost: $86.9 million.
$150 million, is being sought. Total cost: $1,344  MALI: IDA-$33 million. The implementation of
million.                                      the power sector's reorganization and the
INDIA: IBRD-$340 million. Through               strengthening of the general and financial
construction of a 1,454-kilometer oil-products  management of Energie du Mali will be
pipeline from the port of Kandla to Bhatinda, the  supported. In addition, part of the power-sector
Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) will be able to  investment program for the period 1989-94 will
reduce the cost of domestic transport of oil  be financed. Cofinancing is expected from the
products and to respond quickly to shifts in   CCCE ($12.5 million), the ADF ($11.8 million),
oil-product demand through imports, thus      the KfW ($11.5 million), CIDA ($8.6 million),
reducing costly and risky investments in new  the EIB ($6.8 million), and the FAC ($1.9
refining capacity. In addition, IOC's capabilities  million). Total cost: $103.2 million.
in operating its pipeline network and distribution  MEXICO: IBRD-$460 million. Two
facilities will be strengthened. Export and   hydroelectric power plants (rated 1,240 mW)
suppliers' credits, in the amount of $75 million,  will be constructed and those people affected by
are expected. Total cost: $1,009 million.     the construction resettled, and a social and
INDONESIA: IBRD-$354 million. The               environmental program, designed to strengthen
generating capacity of the state electricity  the government-owned national electric utility's
corporation (PLN) will be expanded to meet     ability to construct and operate hydroelectric
expected growth demand through 1995; the use   projects with due regard to affected people and
of coal for electricity generation will be    the environment developed. Technical assistance
promoted; the PLN's project-implementation     is included. Total cost: $1,440 million.
capability will be developed; and the       MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$22 million. A variety of
government's ability to monitor environmental  commercial fuels to substitute for high-cost and
effects, as well as to formulate and enforce   scarce wood fuels and charcoal will be made
environmental standards in the energy sector,  available to urban households, a rapid increase of
will be strengthened. Export credits, in the   electrification of urban areas facilitated, and coal
amount of $274 million, are being sought. as is  stoves provided to 10 percent of urban
parallel cofinancing ($92 million). Total cost:  households. Technical assistance is included.
$1,117 million.                               Cofinancing is anticipated from BADEA ($ 10



148   Summaries of Projects Approved
million), the Nordic Development Fund ($5.7   promotion of new private mining investment, and
million), and DANIDA ($3 million). Total cost:  the rehabilitation of the Corporaci6n Minero de
$50.8 million.                                Bolivia. Cofinancing ($25 million) is anticipated
PAKISTAN: IBRD-$250 million. The process of     from the BITS and the IDB. Total cost: $126.8
energy-sector adjustment will be continued    million.
through the provision of finance to help cover the  CHINA: IBRD-$ 137 million. The
costs of investments to be made during the    implementation of the first phase of the
FY 1989-91 period of the sector's core       investment program developed as a result of a
investment program. Cofmancing ($250 million)  phosphate-subsector study, undertaken during
is being sought from the Export-Import Bank of  project preparation, will be supported, thereby
Japan. Total cost: $4,959 million.            providing a model for future investments in the
PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$65.5 million. A Manila      integrated development of phosphate mines and
power-distribution project has been designed to  fertilizer plants. Institution-building assistance is
improve the Manila Electric Company's        included. Bilateral assistance ($100,000) is
subtransmission and substation systems,       being sought. Total cost: $510.6 million.
facilitate better communication between     DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: IBRD-$30 million.
substations, and revitalize the organization's  The govemment will be assisted in fomnulating
maintenance capabilities. Total cost: $130    and implementing an effective and
million.                                      comprehensive strategy for the development of
THAILAND: IBRD-$90 million. The financing       new industrial free zones and the expansion of
of the Electric Generating Authority of       existing ones; reducing unemployment,
Thailand's 1989-90 power-development          increasing foreign-exchange eamings, and
program, including the Bang Pakong combined-  strengthening backward linkages with the
cycle power plant and expansion of the Mae Moh  domestic economy; alleviating scarcity in term
lignite mine, will help meet the rapid growth in  financing; and improving the capacity of
power demand, while reducing the country's   institutions involved in financing, regulating, and
dependence on imported fuels. Total cost: $2,037  promoting industrial free zones. Cofinancing. in
million.                                      the amount of $1.4 million, is expected. Total
TUNISIA: IBRD-$5.5 million. A petroleum         cost: $51 million.
exploration-promotion project will assist the  HUNGARY: IBRD-$ 140 million. A third
government and the Entreprise Tunisienne      industrial-restructuring project will provide
d'Activites Petroliere in developing the requisite  credit facilities for restructuring of enterprises
technical expertise for supervision, monitoring,  with export orientation, as well as for small
and management of the petroleum sector. In    businesses and entreprenurial development
addition, the rate of discovery and development  (including the private sector). Measures for
of the country's hydrocarbon resources will be  efficient employment creation and new
increased through provision of exploration-   employment services to help alleviate the social
promotion technical assistance, as well as    costs of restructuring will also be developed.
equipment and materials, and the acquisition,  Technical assistance is included. Total cost:
processing, and reprocessing of seismic data.  $342.8 million.
Total cost: $9 million.                     INDIA: IBRD-$210 million. Lines of credit to
two major development finance institutions and a
Industry                                       loan to the govemment for manpower
BANGLADESH: IDA-$25 million. Preshipment        development and training will support the
credit in foreign exchange will be provided to  govemment's objective of developing an efficient
eligible exporters. in particular, to small and new  electronics industry, eventually capable of
nontraditional exporters, and the export-    intemationally competitive production. Technical
financing and guarantee elements of the       assistance is included. Cofinancing is anticipated
country's credit-delivery system will be      from the SDC ($16.2 million) and Japan ($2.7
strengthened. Technical assistance, designed to  million). Total cost: $450 million.
address policy and procedural issues that   INDONESIA: IBRD-$284 million. An industrial-
constrain the active development of the country's  restructuring project has been designed to assist
export potential. is included. Cofinancing ($1.2  existing industrial enterprises in the engineering,
million) for the technical-assistance component  pulp and paper, and textiles subsectors to
is expected from USAID. Total cost: $31.2     undertake viable, environmentally sound,
million.                                      restructuring investments; strengthen
BOLIVIA: IDA-$35 million. The govemment         institutional capabilities and technical services
will be assisted in the implementation of its  assisting the three subsectors; and evaluate the
mining-sector strategy through the creation of a  restructuring potential of other industrial
conducive legal and regulatory framework,     subsectors. Total cost: $506.1 million.



Nonproject   149
JAMAICA: IBRD-$30 million. The country's        administration through the institutional
emergency reconstruction program, occasioned  development of the Ministry of Civil Service and
by the destruction left in the wake of Hurricane  Administrative Reform and the National Institute
Gilbert, will be supported through the financing  of Public Administration will be supported. Total
of essential imports and the provision of a sound  cost: $15.4 million.
framework for overall reconstruction
coordination and implementation. Multilateral  Nonproject
and bilateral cofinancing for the program is  ARGENTINA: IBRD-$300 million. A second
expected to amount to about $446 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD-$15 million. Part of the          implementation of the second phase of a program
1989-91 investment program of the Jamalco     for integrating the country into the world
Joint Venture, a 50-50 Joint venture between   economy in which the government would address
Alcoa and the wholly govermment-owned          import protection, deregulate exports, and
company, Clarendon Alumina Production,         tighten the industrial-incentive system, which
Limited, will be financed. Cofinancing ($8.9  tends to undercut the opening of the economy.
million) is expected from the EEC. Total cost:  BANGLADESH: IDA-$2.5 million.
$90.2 million.                                Supplemental funds from IDA reflows will be
KENYA: IDA-$53.7 million. Supplemental funds    provided to help finance an industrial-sector
from IDA reflows will be used to finance the  credit, approved in fiscal 1989 in the amount of
industrial-sector adjustment credit, approved in  $190 million.
fiscal 1988 in the amount of $102 million.    $190 I    -5io.en
MEXICO: IBRD-$500 million. An industrial-     BENIN: IDA-$45 million. Benin's
sector policy loan is supporting the government's  structural-adjustment program, aimed at a
objectives of stabilizing its economy and     fundamental reorientation of the country's
resuming growth through removing distortions in  development strategy from overemphasis on state
goods, factor and service markets, and through  intervention in the economy to greater reliance
provision of an appropriate institutional and  on private initiative and market forces, will be
regulatory environment to enable industrial    supported.
enterprises meet the challenge of a more    CAMEROON: IBRD-$150 million. The first
competitive world economy.                    phase of the government's adjustment program,
MEXICO: IBRD-$250 million. An industrial-        whose objective is to redress the recent
restructuring project aims at helping the      substantial decline in gross domestic product and
economy improve the efficiency of important   to reestablish a positive rate of per capita growth,
industrial subsectors and increase nonoil exports  will be supported.
by supporting private-sector restructuring  CHAD: IDA-$16.2 million; African Facility-
policies and programs and providing financial  $21.3 million. The first phase of the
and technical assistance to potentially       government's adjustment program, whose
competitive companies that are affected by trade  principal objectives are to improve resource use
liberalization. Total cost: $500 million.     in public finance and the cotton sector, will be
NIGERIA: IBRD-$27.7 million. A refineries-      supported. Cofinancing is to be provided through
rehabilitation project seeks to improve the    special joint financing and from the ADE
Nigerian National Petroleum Company's       COSTA RICA: IBRD-$ 100 million. A second
institutional approach to preventive maintenance,  loan in support of the government's structural-
decisionmaking on investments and repairs, and  adjustment program, which seeks to accelerate
rehabilitation of its assets; utilization and  exports and increase domestic savings while
efficiency of its existing refineries; and    creating the preconditions for a recovery of
monitoring and control of environmental       economic growth and employment, will be
pollution. Total cost: $439.2 million.        provided.
TURKEY: IBRD-$204.5 million. A second small   THE GAMBIA: IDA-$23 million. The second
and medium-scale industry (SMI) project seeks  phase of the government's economic-recovery
to promote efficient SMI investments and      program, focusing on measures to reduce the
operations, improve credit access for SMI by  fiscal deficit, strengthen the performance of the
significantly increasing the number of financial  agricultural sector, and improve public-sector
institutions that can channel credit to SMI   management, will be supported. Cofinancing is
efficiently, and improve SMI product quality and  expected from the ADF ($6 million) and the
expand its markets by providing effective      Netherlands ($2.5 million).
technical and marketing support services. Total  GHANA: IDA-$120 million. The second phase of
cost: $506 million.                           the govemment's structural-adjustment program,
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA-$10.8 million.          which aims to maintain an average growth rate of
The govemment's efforts to improve public     at least 5 percent a year, raise investment to 16



150   Summaries of Projects Approved
percent of GDP by 1990, and raise national    has been designed to increase the level of public
saving to 8.5 percent of GDP, will be supported.  revenues and savings to finance essential
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA-$23.4 million. The            infrastructure and social investment while
second phase of the govemment's structural-   reducing the need for public-sector borrowing, to
adjustment program will support and facilitate  rationalize further trade and industrial policy, and
the continued expansion of economic activity  to streamline external-liability management.
while reforms are being implemented.          Cofinancing is anticipated from the OECF ($100
Cofinancing would be provided by the           million) and may be forthcoming from the
Netherlands ($4.8 million) and USAID ($4.5     AfDB, as well.
million), while additional financing would be  MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$90 million. The
provided by the ADF ($12 million).             country's economic-rehabilitation program,
HONDURAS: IBRD-$50 million. The                 designed to restore Mozambique to a sustainable
government's three-year structural-adjustment  growth path, will be supported. Cofinancing is
program, designed to achieve growth of exports  expected from the United Kingdom ($17.5
and efficient import substitution, increase public  million), Switzerland ($12.8 million), the Federal
and private savings, and make financial       Republic of Germany ($10.9 million), Sweden
intermediation more efficient through         ($9.4 million), and Finland ($8.9 million).
liberalization of interest-rate policies and  NEPAL: IDA-$60 million. The second phase of
institutional measures, will be supported. Future  the government's structural-adjustment program,
cofinancing from the OECF and other bilateral  designed to accelerate sustained economic
agencies is expected.                         growth by reorienting the economy towards a
INDONESIA: IBRD-$350 million. The private        path relying more on the private sector and on
sector will be developed through support of   improved allocation of public and financial
governmental policy measures to provide a stable  resources, will be supported. Cofinancing ($5
macroeconomic setting, develop a less         million) is anticipated from the KfW.
distortionary trade regime, reduce regulatory  NIGERIA: IBRD-$500 million. The second in a
restrictions on investment and marifime        series of quick-disbursing loans, designed to
transport, and promote a more competitive and  support the government's structural-adjustment
responsive financial system.                  program, will support the consolidation of the
KENYA: IDA-$120 million. Wide-ranging policy    exchange-rate and trade-policy initiatives that
and institutional reforms in the financial sector,  were aided by the first loan. In addition,
designed to make it more efficient and market-  measures to facilitate efficient investment are
oriented, will be supported.                  included in the policy package.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:              SENEGAL: IDA-$5.5 million. Supplemental
IDA-$40 million. The government's             funds from IDA reflows will be provided to add
adjustment program. designed to reinvigorate  additional financing for the third structural-
economic growth by improving public-enterprise  adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1987 in the
management, bolstering the private sector,    amount of $45 million.
introducing major fiscal reforms, and initiating  TANZANIA: IDA-$135 million. The broadening
financial-sector reforms, will be supported.  of the government's economic-recovery program
MADAGASCAR: IDA-$ 1.4 million.                   will be supported through reform in the trade
Supplemental funds from IDA reflows will be   regime and the initiation of restructuring and
provided to finance the public-sector adjustment  rehabilitation of the industrial sector.
credit, approved in fiscal 1988 in the amount of  Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($24
$125 million.                                 million), the United Kingdom ($15 million),
MALAWI: IDA-$5.2 million. Supplemental          Switzerland ($14 million), and the Netherlands
funds from IDA reflows will be provided to    ($ 10 million).
finance the industry- and trade-adjustment credit,  TANZANIA: IDA-$12.5 million. Supplemental
approved in fiscal 1988 in the amount of $70  funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help
million.                                      finance the industrial trade-adjustment and
MEXICO: IBRD-$500 million. Through a            rehabilitation credit (see above).
"disengagement" component to continue with  TOGO: IDA-$ 100,000. Supplemental funds from
the sale, liquidation, and merger of public   IDA reflows will be provided to help finance the
enterprises (PEs) and through a program of    third structural-adjustment credit, approved in
reforms in the policy and institutional       fiscal 1988 in the amount of $45 million.
environment of PEs, the heavy burden PEs    UGANDA: IDA-$25 million. Supplemental
impose on the economy and, particularly, the  funds will be provided in support of the country's
national budget, will be reduced.             economic-recovery program. assisted through an
MOROCCO: IBRD-$200 million. The next phase      IDA credit, in the amount of $65 million,
of the country's structural-adjustment program  approved in September 1987.



Population, Health, and Nutrition  151
UGANDA: IDA-$1.7 million. Supplemental          supply and sanitation component. Total cost:
funds from IDA reflows will be provided to help  $103.5 million.
finance the economic-recovery program,      JORDAN: IBRD-$73 million. To develop an
approved in fiscal 1988 in the amount of $65  increasingly knowledge-based and skills-
million.                                      adaptable workforce, support will be provided
URUGUAY: IBRD-$ 140 million. The                for the first phase of a ten-year reform program to
government's medium-term structural-          introduce into basic and secondary schooling
adjustment and development program, designed  policy, institutional, and quality-enhancement
to increase exports and promote domestic      measures. Cofinancing is expected from the
savings, will be further supported.           OECF ($73 million) and the ODA ($1.4 million).
VENEZUELA: IBRD-$402 million. The               Total cost: $252.5 million.
government's structural-adjustment program,  MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$27 million. To help
launched in February 1989 and aimed at        improve the state of health and nutrition in the
achieving balanced and sustainable economic   country, institutional capacity in policy
growth, will be supported.                    formulation and management will be
strengthened, efficiency and service quality will
Population, Health, and Nutrition               be upgraded, and some of the social costs of
BENIN: IDA-$ 18.6 million. National             adjustment will be mitigated, in particular,
health-policy reforms will be supported through  through strengthening the urban food-
quick-disbursing funds and program investments  distribution system and a supplemental feeding
to help the government improve the efficiency of  program targeted to primary school children in
the cuntr's helth-are sstemand epandMaputo and Beira. Cofinancing is expected from
the country's health-care system and expand   Switzerland ($5.3 million), the WFP ($4.4
service delivery in rural areas. Cofinancing   million), UNICEF ($1.9 million), and NORAD
($11.3 million) is anticipated from Switzerland.  ($200,000). Total cost: $42.5 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD-$99 million. Over 16 million     NIGERIA: IBRD-$27.6 million. The government
BRAZIL: IBD-$99 milion. Over 6 millionof Imo state will be assisted in its efforts to
people are to benefit from a project designed to  improve the health and nutrition of its people and
reduce malaria in the Amazon basin to a level  to provide voluntary family-planning services. In
that no longer constitutes a public-health    addition, the federal Ministry of Health's
problem and to reduce the risk of its          capacity to assist state-level health planning and
reintroduction to areas where transmission has  project preparation will be strengthened, and
already been interrupted. Institutional-      federal health and population projects will be
development assistance for the Superintendancy  prepared for intemal and extemal financing.
for Public Health Campaigns is included. Total  Total cost: $36.8 million.
cost: $198 million.                         PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$70.1 million. The
CHINA: IDA-$52 million. Approaches that         government's priorities of expanding and
experiment, in three regions, with health-policy  improving public health and primary care,
initiatives relevant to integrated health planning,  especially to high-risk groups, will be supported;
chronic diseases, and health financing are    the efficiency and effectiveness of the
designed to serve as possible models in other  Department of Health will be strengthened;
parts of the country. Total cost: $113 million.  collaboration among the govemment, local
INDIA: IBRD-$1 1.3 million; IDA-$113.3           governments, and nongovemmental
million. A sixth population project will support  organizations in meeting community health
shifts in the approach, emphasis, and orientation  needs will be promoted; and improved
to training health administrators, supervisors,  mechanisms for future health-policy
and workers. This will include more intensive  development will be established. Cofinancing is
in-service and on-the-job training, as well as the  expected from Italy ($8.1 million) and Japan
technical upgrading of family-welfare training  ($4.3 million). Total cost: $108.4 million.
staff. Total cost: $182 million.            TURKEY: IBRD-$75 million. Provincial health
INDONESIA: IBRD-$43.5 million. The delivery     services will be reorganized and strengthened.
of health services in the provinces of Kalimantan  and measures to enhance efficiency in service
Timur and Nusa Tenggara Barat will be          delivery and improve financial prospects for the
improved; policy measures, on a pilot basis, will  sector will be initiated. Institution-building
be implemented for increasing efficiency in the  assistance to the Ministry of Health is included.
use and availability of resources; and institutional  Total cost: $146.3 million.
capabilities at the local-government and central  YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
levels will be strengthened. Cofinancing is   OF: IDA-$4.5 million. Primary health care in
anticipated from Japan ($4 million) and from the  two govemorates and one island district, with an
AIDAB, which will finance the rural water-    overall population of 400,000, will be upgraded



152   Summaries of Projects Approved
and expanded, health manpower in those areas  PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$60 million. A fourth small
developed and upgraded, family planning and   and medium-scale industries project seeks to
health education promoted throughout the      provide employment opportunitics, improve
country, and management capabilities in the   income distribution and regional development,
public health sector strengthened. Cofinancing is  and act as a catalyst for promoting general
expected from the UNCDF ($500,000),            economic growth and exports. Cofinancing is
UNICEF, UNFPA, and WHO ($200,000 each).       expected from the AsDB ($ 100 million), the
Total cost: $7.9 million.                      ASEAN Japan Development Fund ($40 million),
ZAIRE: IDA-$8.1 million. The country's          and Japan ($3.6 million). Total cost: $358.7
National AIDS Control Program, which seeks to  million.
prevent HIV transmission; reduce the impact of
AIDS on individuals, families, and communities;  Technical Assistance
and improve the database on AIDS in the     ARGENTINA: IBRD-$28 million. Through a
country, will be supported. Cofinancing is    program of technical assistance to various
expected from the EEC ($2 million), USAID     ministries that are responsible for delivering
($1.7 million), UNICEF ($1.5 million), Belgium  social services, major improvements may be
($1.5 million), Italy ($1.2 million), the UNDP  expected in the efficiency of social-service
and WHO ($1 million each), and the Federal    delivery, additional resources will be mobilized,
Republic of Germany ($600,000). Total cost:   and the negative effect of the deteriorating
$21.9 million.                                economic situation of the last decade alleviated.
Cofinancing ($3.7 million) is expected from
Small-scale Enterprises                         Japan. Total cost: $45 million.
CHILE: IBRD-$75 million. Credit will be       ARGENTINA: IBRD-$6.5 million. Through a
provided to medium-sized industrties for      program of technical assistance, the necessary
investment in new plant, plant expansion, and  financing will be provided for the execution of a
permanent working capital. Total cost: $280   program intended to bridge the gap between the
million.                                      full realization of the benefits of a basic structural
COLOMBIA: IBRD-$80 million. A fifth small       reforn of the Directorate of Tax Administration
and medium-scale enterprise (SME) project will  and the need to counter the recent fall in tax
help the country accelerate value added, create  BOLIVIA. IDA-$9.7 million. An economic
employment, and increase the supply of goods  management-strengthening operation seeks to
and services of SMEs through provision of a line  rebuild the country's public institutions for
of credit for onlending to SMEs and           economic management so that the direction and
microenterprises, primarily through changes in  momentum of policy change achieved to date can
public policies and institutional mechanisms  be sustained. Cofinancing is anticipated from
influencing SME access to credit, expansion of  Switzerland ($2.5 million) and Italy ($2.4
the number of intermediaries making SME loans  million). Total cost: $16.6 million.
and the volume of credit, and through an increase  CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA-$13.2
in SME access to technical-support systems.   million. Through an integrated package of
Total cost: $235.1 million.                   assistance and training, the core ministries
INDONESIA: IBRD-$ 100 million. By providing     responsible for managing the economy and for
high-quality, cost-effective technical assistance  implementing the ongoing structural-adjustment
and term credit at market rates, the small and  program will be strengthened. Cofinancing ($2
medium-scale industrial sector will be assisted  million) is anticipated from the UNDP. Total
and its potential to respond to new opportunities,  cost: $16.6 million.
to plan and implement investment and        GUINEA: IDA-$9 million. The government's
operational strategies, and to modermize, expand,  capacity in the areas of social-policy design.
and diversify, thereby increasing manufacturing  coordination. and implementation will be
output and jobs, will be demonstrated.         strengthened, as will its ability to identify target
Cofinancing is expected from the Netherlands  population groups and to monitor the evolution
($6.1 million) and Japan ($3.1 million). Total  of living conditions of households throughout the
cost: $193.3 million.                         adjustment process and afterwards. In addition,
NIGERIA: IBRD-$270 million. The resumption      assistance will be provided in implementing a
of growth and efficient employment generation  priority social-action program, based on specific
will be stimulated through the provision of credit  subprojects aimed at upgrading the living
and technical assistance to small and medium-  conditions of the poor and disadvantaged groups.
scale enterprises in the context of the new policy  Cofinancing is anticipated from the ADF ($1.9
environment and the ongoing adjustment        million) and CIDA ($840,000). Total cost: $13.5
process. Total cost: $415.8 million.          million.



Telecommunications  153
GUINEA: IDA-$14.5 million. An integrated      UGANDA: IDA-$15 million. Financing will be
package of mutually supporting operations-    provided for local and international consultant
short- and long-term consultant services, training  services, training, equipment and materials, and
programs, studies, and financing of equipment  special studies, all aimed at strengthening the
and vehicles-will be financed, thus helping to  capacity of the govemment and key productive
facilitate the implementation of the country's  parastatal enterprises to sustain economic
economic- and financial-recovery program.     recovery. Total cost: $19.3 million.
Cofinancing is anticipated from the FAC ($2.8  URUGUAY: IBRD-$6.5 million. A second
million), the AfDB ($2.5 million), the UNDP   technical-assistance project supports the
($2.2 million). USAID ($1.3 million), and the  government's objectives to restore effective
CCCE ($1.2 million). Total cost: $27.8 million.  competition in domestic banking and to improve
MADAGASCAR: IDA-$22 million. The social         the regulatory framework and central bank
costs of adjustment will be mitigated through a  supervision of the banking system. Total cost:
project that supports the government's efforts to  $9.2 million.
improve public-sector management; address the  ZAIRE: IDA-$11.6 million. The govemment's
plight of the more disadvantaged groups; and  policy-formulation and -implementation capacity
strengthen governmental capacity to monitor and  in three key agricultural ministries (agriculture,
address social issues, policies, and programs  rural development, and environment) is to be
consistent with its overall economic policy   strengthened through technical assistance,
framework and budgetary realities. Cofinancing  training, and logistical support. Cofinancing
is expected from Switzerland ($4.7 million), the  ($2.5 million) is anticipated from Belgium. Total
UNDP ($3.8 million), the ADF ($2 million), the  cost: $16.6 million.
AfDB's Technical Assistance Fund ($2 million),
and others ($1.8 million), including various UN  Telecommunications
agencies, France, Italy, and Japan. Total cost:  BENIN: IDA-$16 million. Support will be
$40.9 million.                                provided for a program to improve institutional
MALAWI: IDA-$11.3 million. Funds will be        and management capacity in the
provided to help establish and operate the   telecommunications sector, service to present
Malawi Institute of Management to train       subscribers, and the sector's financial position
managers in the public and private sectors in  and performance. Cofinancing is expected from
management techniques. In addition, the      the AfDB ($16 million), the EIB ($14 million),
Ministry of Finance will be helped to implement  the CCCE ($9 million), CIDA ($3.5 million), and
its development plan and its ongoing tax-    the FAC ($300,000). Total cost: $65.3 million.
modernization program. Cofinancing ($6      ECUADOR: IBRD-$45 million. This first
million) is expected from the UNDP. Total cost:  telecommunications project in the country will
$18.9 million.                                expand local telephone service to 189,000
TOGO: IDA-$5 million. A grassroots-             additional subscribers, rehabilitate the cable
development initiatives project aims to strengthen  network in Guayaquil. expand the long-distance
government-nongovernmental organization       network, extend service to rural communities,
(NGO) collaboration and to improve directly the  and expand and modernize international
living standards and working conditions of some  telephone, telex, and data services. Institution-
of the poorest communities in the country by  building assistance is included. Cofinancing is
providing additional resources to NGOs engaged  anticipated from the CDC ($27 million), France
in poverty alleviation and in meeting        ($47.2 million). Japan ($45 million), Mexico
communities' highest-priority basic needs. Total  ($8.1 million), Brazil ($7.7 million), Spain ($6.7
cost: $6.7 million.                           million), and Italy ($5.7 million). Total cost:
TOGO: IDA-$5 million. A preinvestment project   $330 million.
will provide for the preparation of project  FIJI: IBRD-$8.I million. A third
feasibility studies and project execution plans,  telecommunications project aims to improve
studies of the investment needs and priorities of  further the institutional environment of operating
individual sectors in the country's economy, and  entities and build the infrastructure, thereby
training of staff to manage and supervise the  improving availability of, and access to, modem
studies. Total cost: $5.6 million.            telecommunications services. Cofinancing is
UGANDA: IDA-$18 million. Technical              anticipated from Australia ($7.4 million) and the
assistance will be provided to help increase the  EIB ($6.4 million). Total cost: $47.9 million.
financial management and administrative     GHANA: IDA-$19 million. A second
capacities of the Ministry of Finance and the  telecommunications project will support a
Bank of Uganda to help them plan, implement,  program of institutional and management
and monitor the country's ongoing economic-   improvement, improve the quality of service
reform program. Total cost: $23 million.      offered to telecommunications subscribers, and



154   Summaries of Projects Approved
offered to telecommunications subscribers, and  CAPE VERDE: IDA-$4.7 million. A project that
improve the financial performance of the Ghana  combines both policy reform and investment is
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation so as  designed to improve the efficiency of the
to eliminate government subsidies. Cofinancing  transport and power sectors, support private-
is anticipated from Japan ($92.4 million in grants  sector development, strengthen local institutions,
and suppliers' credits), the CCCE ($21.8      examine the possibility of developing indigenous
million), the Netherlands ($18.8 million in loans  sources of energy. and preserve the capital
and suppliers' credits), and Ireland ($1.7 million  investment already made in the country's road
in suppliers'credits). Total cost: $173 million.  network. Total cost: $5.1 million.
TOGO: IDA-$ 16 million. The scope and         CHAD: IDA-$60 million. A transport-sector
availability of telecommunications services will  adjustment and investment credit seeks to reduce
increase to help meet likely demand increases  the cost and the price of transport within the
resulting from private-sector development and  country thmugh a number of policy-based
enhanced external trade. Institution-building  components and the rehabilitation of some 1,800
assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected  kilometers of priority roads. Cofinancing is
from the EIB ($10.4 million), the AfDB ($4    anticipated from USAID ($23 million), the
million), CIDA ($2.3 million), the CCCE       Federal Republic of Germany ($22.7 million),
($600,000), the FAC ($300,000), and the UNDP  the CCCE ($13.1 million), the ADF ($11.3
($ 100,000). Total cost: $44.6 million.       million), the BDEAC ($10.6 million), the EDF
UGANDA: IDA-$52.3 million. A second            ($4.8 million), the OPEC Fund for International
telecommunications project aims at rehabilitation  Development ($4.5 million), the FAC ($3.3
of economically critical facilities and increases in  million), and the UNDP ($500,000). Total cost:
the utilization of existing exchange capacity to  $180 million.
satisfy partly current unmet demand. Institution-  CHINA: IBRD-$70 million; IDA-$80 million.
building assistance to the Uganda Posts and   The construction of a 948-kilometer single-track
Telecommunications Corporation is included.   rail line in Inner Mongolia running toward the
Total cost: $58.8 million.                    industrial province of Jilin in the country's
WESTERN SAMOA: IDA-$4.6 million. Priority       northeast will facilitate the movement of coal and
investments will be financed to upgrade the   other products between the two provinces. Total
telecommunications network and to build a basis  cost: $349.9 million.
for its future expansion, and to lay the    CHINA: IBRD-$60 million; IDA-$50 million.
groundwork for the development of rural       A 319-kilometer four-lane highway in the
telecommunications. Cofmancing is anticipated  important corridor between Jinan, the capital of
from the AsDB ($7.4 million) and the ITU      Shandong province, and the port of Qingdao will
($100,000). Total cost: $16.3 million.        be financed. Institution-building assistance and
training are included. Total cost: $423.5 million.
'lYansportation                               CHINA: IBRD-$76.4 million. The operating
ALGERIA: IBRD-$63 million. Support will be      efficiency and level of maintenance at the ports
provided for a first phase in the rehabilitation and  of Ningbo and Shanghai will be improved,
modernization program for the key Algerian    physical facilities there will be expanded and
ports of Algiers, Annaba, and Oran. Total cost:  modernized, and work on a comprehensive
$127.8 million.                               strategy for future port development in
BANGLADESH: IDA-$ 133.6 million. Priority       mideastem China initiated. Training and
infrastructure damaged by flooding will be   insititution-building components are included.
restored so as to promote efficient operation of  Total cost: $340 million.
the economy. The project also aims to ensure  CHINA: IDA-$61 million. A Jiangxi provincial
appropriate design and location of works and  highway project will upgrade, through road and
equipment to minimize the risks of damage or  bridge construction, the heavily trafficked
loss arising from future floods. Total cost: $157.8  Nanchang-Jiujiang highway, and, through
million.                                      provision of technical assistance, address specific
BOLIVIA: IDA-$37 million. One of the country's  policy, institutional, and technological objectives
main obstacles to export growth-the lack of  in the highway subsector. Total cost: $109
adequate infrastructure and efficient, reliable  million.
service in the country's principal transport  CHINA: IBRD-$36 million. The operating
corridors to the Atlantic and the Pacific-will be  efficiency and level of maintenance at the port of
addressed. Institution-building assistance to the  Xiamen will be improved, physical facilities
Bolivian National Railway, the Road Authority,  there expanded and modemized, and the
and the Ministry of Transportation and        environmental impact of port operations and
Communications is included. Total cost: $47.1  expansion irnproved. Training is included. Total
million.                                      cost: $90.3 million.



Urban Development    155
ETHIOPIA: IDA-$72 million. The turnaround        affected by the road construction. Total cost: $40
time of export/import cargo will be speeded up  million.
by directly addressing the bottlenecks in the port  THAILAND: IBRD-$87 million. A three-year
of Assab, freight forwarding, customs, and road  (1989-91) time-slice of sector investments,
transport-particularly, the road from Assab to  designed to assist the government sustain an
Addis Ababa. Cofmiancing is anticipated from   efficient road-transport system and achieve the
the AfDB ($55 million) and the EBB ($12.5      goals of its sixth development plan that include
million). Total cost: $164.6 million.          protection of past investments, reduction of
GABON: IBRD-$30 million. Through the             road-transport costs, improvements in highway
financing of priority items of the govemment's  transport services and moad safety. and abatement
1989-92 roads program, the adequate            of vehicular air and noise pollution, will be
maintenance of the country's road network      financed. Cofinancing ($259.3 million) is
during the current economic-adjustment period  anticipated from the AsDB and the OECF.
will be ensured. Cofinancing ($31.1 million) is  UGANDA: IDA-$7 million. Assistance will be
expected from the AfDB. Total cost: $1 10      provided to the Uganda Railways Corporation
million.                                       for implementing an initial program of
GUATEMALA: IBRD-$31.5 million. Damaged           improvements in organization and management
secondary and regional roads of key economic   and for improving performance on the Kampala-
importance will be rehabilitated and maintained,  Kaese line through repair and rehabilitation.
the role of the private sector in the execution of  Total cost: $8.8 million.
public works promoted, and institution-building  URUGUAY: IBRD-$80.8 million. Through
assistance provided to the General Directorate of  policy reform, institutional development, and
Roads of the Ministry of Communications,       financing of high-priority investments in the
Transport, and Public Works. Total cost: $49.1  roads and ports subsectors, the govemment's
million.                                       objectives of reforming the transport sector,
HUNGARY: IBRD-$95 million. A second              strengthening its managerial and planning
transport project will help finance investments in  capabilities, and stimulating competition and
railways, trucking, highways, and urban        private-sector involvement will be supported.
passenger transport, all designed to improve   Cofinancing ($73.9 million) is anticipated from
competition and operational efficiency in the  the Export-Import Bank of Japan. Total cost:
sector, increase foreign-exchange earnings by  $257.4 million.
carrying more traffic in international and transit  YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD-$ 138 million. The reform
trade, and promote technology transfer. Total  program of the Community of Yugoslav
cost: $250 million.                            Railways will be supported through the fnancing
INDIA: IBRD-$ 170 million; IDA-$80 million.      of the 1989-91 investment plans of four of the
Policy and institutional improvements begun    community's railway organizations, which,
under the National Highway Project will be     together, operate about 85 percent of the
extended to the state level through a project, to be  country's main trunk line. Cofinancing is
implemented in four states, that will promote the  anticipated from the EIB ($80 million) and
use of modem maintenance-management            Eurofima ($44 million). Total cost: $907.1
systems and introduce improved construction    million.
methods. Total cost: $450.2 million.         ZAIRE: IDA-$75 million. Comprehensive
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$200 million.           five-year rehabilitation programs for the Office
Three principal road-related government        National des Transports and the Societe
objectives will be supported: enhancing transport  Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois will be
efficiency by upgrading the surface and        supported to strengthen their performance in the
alignment of existing roads and by improving   transport sector in the context of a sustainable
road maintenance and operations, expanding     public-expenditure program. Cofinancing is
traffic capacity by widening roads with high   anticipated from the AfDB ($91.6 million), the
transport demand, and increasing traffic safety.  CCCE ($36.2 million), Belgium ($24.1 million),
Total cost: $513.1 million.                    the KfW ($15 million), and the EEC ($6.2
NEPAL: IDA-$32.8 million. A 192 kilometer-       million). Total cost: $280.1 million.
long access road that will be built from
Basantpur to the site of the Arun III power  Urban Development
station will also serve to link food-deficit areas in  ARGENTINA: IBRD-$300 million. The
the north with surplus areas to the south. The  government will be supported in its efforts to
government will also be assisted in            reform policies in the housing sector through an
implementing environmental-protection and      increase in productivity in the housing programs
conservation measures, as well as in planning  financed by FONAVI, the national housing fund,
and administering measures benefiting families  improvements in FONAVI's financial



156   Summares of Projects Approved
performance. and a reduction (with concurrent  FINNIDA ($6.1 million) and Spain ($3.9
improvement of targeting) of subsidies. Total  million). Total cost: $83.8 million.
cost: $608 million.                         NEPAL: IDA-$41.5 million. The effective
BRAZIL: IBRD-$100 million. Technical            planning, delivery, and maintenance of
assistance, training, and equipment will be  infrastructure and muncipal services in town
provided to municipalities and urban-sector   panchayats (municipalities) will be supported. In
institutions in Parana state to strengthen their  addition, the government will be helped to
financial management and overall administrative  reconstruct housing damaged during the August
capacities. In addidon, investments in urban  1988 earthquake, construction standards will be
infrastructure will be provided to muncipalities  improved. and earthquake-resistant features will
throughout the state, and a pilot project fbr  be incorporated into building codes. Technical
low-income, self-help house construction will be  assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected
financed. Total cost: $226.9 million.        from the UNDP ($5.1 million) and the GTZ
BURUNDI: IDA-$21 million. A second urban       ($1.7 million). Total cost: $54.8 million.
project aims to strengthen the economy of   RWANDA: IDA-$32 million. The govenmment's
secondary towns through provision of necessary  urban-sector reforms, which aim at reducing the
infrastructure and community facilities, as well  central government's role in urban development
as employment opportunities. and through the  and strengthening that of local govenmments and
establishment of an institutional and financial  the private sector, will be supported. Cofinancing
environment that would help these semirural   is anticipated from the UNCDF ($2.9 million).
agglomerations evolve into actual urban centers.  the FAC ($ 1.1 million), and the UNDP ($1
Total cost: $24.1 million.                    million). Total cost: $66.2 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD-$ 146 million. A second        SUDAN: IDA-$75 million. An emergency
project, which constitutes the comerstone of the  flood-reconstruction prject seeks to restore
new urban policy, seeks to consolidate the basis  productive facilities and essential infrastructure
for sustainable and replicable urban-development  damaged during the floods of August-September
operations through components designed to     1988. restore social services and destroyed
mobilize urban resources; rehabilitate priority  housing, and outline requirements for an early-
infrastructure in Yaounde, Douala. and        waming system against future flooding. In
secondary cities; and implement sector policy  addition, the institutional framework needed to
reforms, including parapublic-enterprise reform.  carry out the reconstruction program will be
Total cost: $253.5 million.                   strengthened. Total cost: $83.8 million.
CHILE:- IBRD-$200 million. A second           TUNISIA: IBRD-$58 million. The supply of
housing-sector project supports govemmental   affordable low- and medium-income housing
efforts to increase the number of housing     programs will be increased as domestic savings
solutions for low-income people, offer a greater  are mobilized by the newly formed Housing
variety of new housing types to meet their needs  Bank. to be supported through a line of credit
and preferences, introduce programs to upgrade  and technical assistance. In addition. the share of
the existing housing stock, improve cost     the formal private sector in land and housing
recovery, and improve the resource mobilization  development, as well as in surveying activities.
and efficiency of the private mortgage-financing  will be increased. Cofinancing is expected from
system. Total cost: $1,134 million.           USAID ($15 million); $2 million in additional
CHILE: IBRD-$75 million. An institutional       cofinancing is being sought. Total cost: $200
capability to manage effectively future urban  million.
street maintenance and rehabilitation will be  ZIMBABWE: IBRD-$80 million. Subsector
developed, and a program to bring the urban-  loans will be made to specific urban authorities
transponl system back to a condition of       for their next five-year capital-investment
maintainability will be financed. In addition, the  programs for primary infrastructure and
technical, economic, and financial viability of  residential infrastructure. In addition, steps will
less costly exclusive bus/tramways to         be taken to maximize the role of
accommodate increased demand and reduce       nongovernmental investors in housing as a means
public transport costs will be demonstrated. Total  to relieve the government's financial burden.
cost: $150 million.                           Institution-building and technical assistance are
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$60 million. The                included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the
deterioration in basic urban infrastructure and  Federal Republic of Germany ($21 million) and
services in Maputo and Beira will be stemmed,  SIDA ($3 million). Total cost: $580 million.
and the social effects of strucural adjustment
mitigated through the implementation of a   Water Supply and Sewerage
program of urban rehabilitation and employment  BRAZIL: IBRD-$280 million. The capacity of
generation. Cofinancing is expected from     the Sao Paulo State Water Company to carry out



,A'ter SLjpp~,: and Sewerage  157
more efficient planning of investments, improved  low- income beneticianes to stan productane
internal mobilization of revenues, and increased  acti% nie, t moml likel in%olh ing microenterprises
efficiency of operations will be strengthened.  and some turin of cooperati% e ov nership . Total
Total cost: $600 million.                      cost: $'28.5 million.
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$36              NIGERIA IBRD-S I173.2 million Access b% the
million. A second project aims at improving    residenis of Lago, to drinking-viaier supplies
water distribution in the Alexandria Water     will be increased through a doublimg of
General Authority's (AWGA) network and         produciion and di,tribution-nenwork capacities.
improving AWGA's operation, maintenance, and   subsidies tront the slate goLernnent to the Lagos
metering practices, as well as its capital structure  State W%aLer Corporation LSWCJ will be
and fmancial performance. Cofinancing is       graduallk eliminjted. and institution-building
anticipated from Italy ($22.5 million) and the  assistance pn!x ided to ihe LSWC. Cofinancing is
GTZ ($5.5 million). Total cost: $102.5 million.  expected from French comniercial banks v% ith
GHANA: IDA-$25 million. The managerial,          COF ACE guaraniee S $164.8 mi I lion). the El B
financial, and technical capabilities of the Ghana  ($47 4 million . Cl DA t 5 3.2 mill ion), and the
Water and Sewerage Corporation will be         UNDP i Sit)tIi0(. Total cost: $461.8 million.
strengthened to enable it to effectively plan and  PAKISTAN. I DA-$ 125 mi llion. The iupply of
implement a meaningful development program,    potable % aler v" iI be increased by almost a third
and its operating and maintenance ability will be  and Improvements made to sanilation by
improved. Cofinancing is expected from Austria  increases in ,e% erage coverage and treatment
($19.5 million) and the ODA ($14.6 million) and  capacity in thi econd Karachi aler- supplv and
is being sought elsewhere in the amount of $47.1  sanitation project. In ;n rution bbuIlding assitance
million. Total cost: $125 million.             to the Karachi X%iter and Se%%erage Board is
GUINEA: IDA-$40 million. While financing key     included. Cofinancing is e%pected from the
investments in the water-supply sector, this   AsDB ($81.9 million i and mixed credits fiom
project will primarily focus on implementation of  the United Kingdom t $5t 4 m 11 ion i. Tota I cost:
needed institutional reforms and adequate      $331.8 million.
cost-recovery procedures, as well as         YEMEN, PEOPLE S DENlOCRATIC REPUBLIC
rehabilitation of operations and facilities.   OF: IDA-$12 millhon. Water production for Al
Cofinancing is expected from the AfDB ($23     Mukalla, the countrx \ second largest city. will
million), the CCCE ($16.6 million), and the EIB  be increased to meet effectine demand up to the
($11.3 million). Total cost: $102.6 million.   year 2002 and to cl rengthen and ex pand the
HAITI: IDA-$20 million. About 425,000 people     existing primar) and hecondarN distribution
in Port-au-Prince will benefit from a project  systems. Institution-building assistance is
designed to improve the supply of water and    included. Cofinancing is expected from the
expand its coverage. Institution-building      AFESD and the KFAED ($9.7 million each).
assistance to the Centrale Autonome            Total cost: $34.7 million.
Metropolitaine d'Eau Potable is included.    YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD-$60 million. A water-
Cofinancing ($9.5 million) is expected from the  supply and sewerage project for the S lovene
CCCE. Total cost: $35.5 million.               coastal region and the west coast of the Istrian
MEXICO: IBRD-$20 million. Some 200,000           peninsula has been designed to eliminate existing
people are expected to benefit from a project that  water shortages, provide additional water
will provide water, sanitation, and health     supplies needed for the expansjon of tourism.
education, both to free women's labor for more  reduce unaccounted- for v& ater. provide protection
productive activities and to reduce community  from pollution, and increase efficienc) in
morbidity. In addition, credit and technical   water-supply and seu erdge.-ser ices deliv.ery.
assistance will be made available to help finance  Total cost: $243.9 million.
the investment and working capital needed by



158     Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-1. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1989,
by Region
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans         IDA credits            Total
Region and country                            Number    Amount   Number    Amount    Number    Amount
Africa
Benin .................................       -           -        3        79.6      3         79.6
Burkina Faso ..............   ............    -           -        I        42.0      1         42.0
Burundi ...............................       -           -        2        54.1      2         54.1
Cameroon .............................         3       330.6     -           -        3        330.6
Cape Verde ............................       -           -        1         4.7      1          4.7
Central African Republic . ...............    -           -        2        31.2      2         31.2
Chad ................................         -           -        3        98.2      3         98.2
Djibouti ...............................      -           -        1         9.2      1          9.2
Ethiopia ...............................                   .      .-  2    157.0      2        157.0
Gabon ................................          1        30.0     -           -       1         30.0
Gambia, The ......................                        -        2        33.0      2         33.0
Ghana .................................       -           -        6       260.0      6        260.0
Guinea ................................       -           -        4        81.9      4         81.9
Guinea-Bissau ..........   .......            -           -        2        28.4      2         28.4
Kenya ................................        -           -        3       235.2      3        235.2
Madagascar ...........................        -           -        2        47.4      2         47.4
Malawi .......................        ...     -           -        3        81.5      3         81.5
Mali .................................        -           -        2        59.0      2         59.0
Mauritania ...... . .....................     -           -        I        18.2      1         18.2
Mozambique                .           .       -           -        4       199.0      4        199.0
Nigeria ................................       6      1,083.7      1       100.9      7      1,184.6
Rwanda..                                     ..............................  -  -  2  51.9  2   51.9
Sao Tome and Principe .......    ..........   -           -        1         5.0      1          5.0
Senegal ..............................        -           -        1        21.6      1         21.6
Somalia ...............................       -           -        2        89.0      2         89.0
Sudan .................................       -           -        2        95.0      2         95.0
Tanzania .............................        -           -        4       199.3      4        199.3
Togo ..................................       -           -        3        26.1      3         26.1
Uganda ..............................         -           -        5       141.0      5        141.0
Zaire ..................... ............      -           -        4       114.7      4        114.7
Zimbabwe .............................         2        116.3    -           -        2        116.3
Total ................................       12     1.560.6     69     2.364.1     81      3,924.7
Asia
Bangladesh ..................   ..........    -           -        4       423.1      4        423.1
China .................................        7       833.4       5       515.0     12      1,348.4
Fiji ..................................         1        8.1     -           -        1          8.1
India ..................0...............       to     2,136.3      1       900.3     11      3,036.6
Indonesia ... ..........................       9      1.640.4    -           -        9      1,640.4
Korea, Republic of ..........2..........       2       216.4     -           -        2        216.4
Lao People's Democratic Republic ....         -           -        3        53.5      3         53.5
Malaysia ..............................        2        130.3    -           -        2        130.3
Maldives ..................... ........       -           -        1         8.2      1          8.2
Nepal .................................       -           -        6       199.0      6        199.0
Papua New Guinea .........     ............     1        19.6    -           -        1         19.6
Philippines .............................      4       495.6     -           -        4        495.6



Projects Approved by Region    159
IBRD loans         IDA credits           Total
Region and country                           Number   Amount   Number    Amount   Number    Amount
Asia (contintued)
SriLanka ..............................      -          -        2       63.7       2        63.7
Thailand .......................2.......       2      177.0     -          -        2        177.0
Vanuatu ...............................      -          -        1        8.0       1         8.0
Western Samoa ...........    .............   -          -        1        4.6       1         4.6
Total ................................     38     5.657.1     24     2,175.4     62      7,832.5
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
Algeria ................................      4       341.0     -          -        4       341.0
Egypt. Arab Republic of ......  ..........    3       241.0     -          -        3       241.0
Hungary ...............................       3       345.0     -          -        3       345.0
Jordan ................................        1       73.0     -          -        1        73.0
Morocco ..............................        5       524.0     -          -        5       524.0
Pakistan .............................        4       748.0      3      201.4       7       949.4
Portugal ...............................       1       90.0     -          -        I        90.0
Tunisia ............................ ...      4       242.5     -          -        4       242.5
Turkey ................................       4       709.3     -          -        4       709.3
Yemen Arab Republic .......    ...........   -          -        2       25.8       2        25.8
Yemen. People's Democratic Republic of       -          -        3       28.5       3        28.5
Yugoslavia .................2...........              198.0     -          -        2       198.0
Total ................................     31     3.511.8      8      255.7      39     3,767.5
Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina ..............................      5       886.5     -          -        5       886.5
Bahamas. The ......1.........                  I       10.0     -          -        I        10.0
Bolivia ................................     -          -        3       93.0       3        93.0
Brazil .................................      6       707.0     -          -        6       707.0
Chile ..................................      3       350.0     -          -        3       350.0
Colombia .............................        2       180.0     -          -        2       180.0
Costa Rica .......... ..................1             100.0     -          -        I       100.0
Dominican Republic ....................        1       30.0     -          -        1        30.0
Ecuador        .         ................      1       45.0     -          -        1        45.0
Guatemala ................._...........       2        61.5     -          -        2        61.5
Haiti ..................................     -          -        2       44.0       2        44.0
Honduras ..............................       2        75.0     -          -        2        75.0
Jamaica ...............................        2       45.0     -          -        2        45.0
Mexico ................................       6     2,230.0     -          -        6      2,230.0
St. Vincent and the Grenadines ..... .....     1        1.4     -          1.4      1         2.8
Uruguay ...................... I ........     3       227.3     -          -        3       227.3
Venezuela .............................       2       755.0     -          -        2       755.0
Total ................................     38     5,703.7      5       138.4     43      5,842.1
Grand total ............. .............    119   16,433.2    106     4,933.6    225    21,366.8
NOTE: Supplements, as well as B-loans, are included in the amounts, but are not counted as separate lending operations.
Joint IBRD/IDA operations are counted only once. as IBRD operations.
- Zero.



160    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-2. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1989,
by Sector
(millions of US dollars)
Sector'                                                        IBRD           IDA           Total
Agriculture and Rural Development
Algeria-Agricultural credit ........  ...................    110.0            -          110.0
Algeria-Agricultural credit ...........................       58.0            -           58.0
Algeria-Irrigation and drainage .......  ................    110.0            -           110.0
Brazil-Irrigation and drainage .......  .................     71.0            -           71.0
Brazil-Agricultural credit .........  ...................     63.0            -           63.0
Burkina Faso-Research and extension ......    ..........        -           42.0          42.0
Burundi-Research and extension .......     ..............       -           33.1          33.1
Cameroon-Livestock ................................           34.6            -           34.6
China-Area development ..............  I   .............        -          106.0         106.0
China-Area development .........      ...................       -          109.0         109.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of-Agroindustry ...... .........         40.0            -           40.0
Ethiopia-Area development ........ .................            -           85.0          85.0
Ghana-Forestry ...............    .....................         -           39.4          39.4
Ghana-Research and extension .......................            -           20.0          20.0
Guinea-Research and extension .......     ...............       -           18.4          18.4
Honduras-Agricultural credit .........................        25.0            -           25.0
India-Agroindustry ..................................           -          150.0         150.0
India-Agroindustry ..................................         30.0         147.0         177.0
India-Irrigation and drainage ........  .................    165.0         160.0         325.0
Indonesia-Agroindustry ..........    ...................     118.2            -          118.2
Indonesia-Research and extension ......    ..............     35.3            -           35.3
Kenya-Agricultural credit ............................          -           20.8          20.8
Madagascar-Research and extension ......    ............        -           24.0          24.0
Malawi-Agricultural credit ...........................          -           18.3          18.3
Malaysia-Area development .     .   ........................  71.5            -           71.5
Morocco-Research and extension .....................          28.0            -           28.0
Morocco-Agricultural credit ........    .................    190.0            -          190.0
Nepal-Forestry .....................................            -           30.5          30.5
Nigeria-Area development ........     ...................     85.2            -           85.2
Nigeria-Area development ........     ...................       -          100.9         100.9
Pakistan-Agriculture sector loan ......................      200.0            -          200.0
Pakistan-Irrigation and drainage .....   ................       -           34.4          34.4
Pakistan-Irrigation and drainage .......  ...............       -           40.0          40.0
Papua New Guinea-Agricultural credit ......   ..........      19.6            -           19.6
Portugal-Area development ........     ..................     90.0            -           90.0
Rwanda-Area development ........       ..................       -           19.9          19.9
Senegal-Agricultural credit ...........................         -           16.1          16.1
Somalia-Livestock ............     .....................        -           19.0          19.0
Somalia-Agriculture sector loan .......   ...............       -           70.0          70.0
Sri Lanka-Forestry ............    .....................        -           19.9          19.9
St. Vincent and the Grenadines-Agriculture sector loan. .       1.4          1.4           2.8
Sudan-Research and extension .......     ................       -           20.0          20.0
Tanzania-Research and extension .......     .............       -            8.3           8.3
Tanzania-Research and extension .......     .............       -           18.4           18.4
Tanzania-Perennial crops .........    ...................       -           25.1          25.1
Tunisia-Agriculture sector loan ........... ...........       84.0            -           84.0
Turkey-Agroindustry ................................          150.0           -           150.0
Turkey-Agricultural credit ...........................       250.0            -          250.0



Projects Approved by Sector   161
Sector"                                                        IBRD           IDA           Total
Agriculture and Rural Development (continued)
Yemen Arab Republic-Area development ...1.........               -5.0                      15.0
Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of-Area
development ................   ......................         -            12.0          12.0
Zimbabwe-Agricultural credit .......    .................      36.3            -           36.3
Total ............. ...............................       2,066.1       1,423.9       3,490.0
Development Finance Companies
Bolivia ..............................................          -            11.3          1 j3b
China ..............................................          154.0            -          154.0
China ...............................................         300.0            -          300.0
Gambia. The ...........     .............................        -           10.0          10.0
Ghana .........  ..................................              -           30.0          30.0
Ghana ..............................................             -            6.6           6.6b
Guinea-Bissau .......................................            -            5.0           5.0
India ...............................................         295.0           -           295.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic .....................           -           10.0          10.0
Mexico .............................................          500.0           -           500.0
Morocco ........  ...................................          23.0           -            23.0
Pakistan ............................................         150.0            -          150.0
Pakistan ............................................         148.0           2.0         150.0
Philippines ..........................................        300.0           -           300.0
Sao Tome and Principe ...............................            -            5.0           5.0
Sri Lanka ...........................................            -           43.8          43.8
Venezuela ..........................................          353.0           -           353.0
Zaire ...........................................                -           20.0          20.0
Total .............................................       2,223.0         143.7       2,366.7
Education
Bahamas. The .    .....................................        10.0           -            10.0
Chad ...............................................             -           22.0          22.0
China ...............................................            -           57.0          57.0
Colombia ..................... .....................          100.0            -          100.0
Guatemala ..........................................           30.0            -           30.0
India ...............................................          30.0         250.0         280.0
Indonesia ...........................................          18.4           -            18.4
Korea, Republic of ...................................         16.4           -            16.4
Lao People's Democratic Republic .....................          -             3.5           3.5
Malaysia .......... .................................          58.8           -            58.8
Maldives ............................................           -             8.2           8.2
Mali ...............................................-                        26.0          26.0
Mauritania ..........................................           -            18.2          18.2
Morocco... .........................................           83.0            -           83.0
Nepal ..............................................            -            1 .4          11.4
Nepal ...............................................           -            22.8          22.8
Tunisia ............................................           95.0            -           95.0
Uganda .............................................            -            22.0          22.0
Vanuatu ............................... ............            -             8.0           8.0
Total .............................................         441.6         449.1         890.7
(continued)



162    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-2 (continued)
Sector'                                                       IBRD           IDA          Total
Energy
Oil, gas, attd coal
Brazil ..............................................         94.0           -           94.0
Djibouti ................................ ............          -           9.2           9.2
Hungary ............................................         I10.0           -           110.0
India ..............................................         340.0           -          340.0
Mozambique .    .......................................         -          22.0          22.0
Tunisia .............................................          5.5           -            5.5
Total .............................................        549.5         31.2         580.7
Power
Argentina ............................ ..............        252.0           -          252.0
Bangladesh ........................ .................           -         175.0         175.0
Bangladesh ..........................................           -          87.0          87.0
Central African Republic ..........  ...................        -          18.0          18.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of ................... ..........       165.0          -            165.0
Haiti .............................................             -          24.0          24.0
India .............................................          485.0           -          485.0
India .............................................          400.0           -          400.0
Indonesia ...........................................        354.0          -           354.0
Indonesia ..........................................         337.0           -          337.0
Kenya .............................................             -          40.7          40.7
Malawi .................................-..........                        46.7          46.7
Mali .............................................              -          33.0          33.0
Mexico .............................................         460.0           -          460.0
Pakistan ............................................        250.0           -          250.0
Philippines ..........................................        65.5           -           65.5
Thailand ............................................         90.0           -           90.0
Total .............................................      2858.5         424.4        3.282.9
Industry
Bangladesh-Industry sector loan ......................          -          25.0          25.0
Bolivia-Mining, other extractive ......................-                   35.0          35.0
China-Industry sector loan ........   ..................     137.0           -           137.0
Dominican Republic-Industry sector loan ..............        30.0          -            30.0
Hungary-Industry sector loan .......    ..............       140.0          -            140.0
India-Industry sector loan ........  ...................     210.0          -           210.0
Indonesia-Industry sector loan .......  ................     284.0          -           284.0
Jamaica-Industry sector loan ........................         30.0           -           30.0
Jamaica-Mining, other extractive .......  ..............      15.0           -            15.0
Kenya-Industry sector loan ..........................           -          53.7          53.7b
Mexico-Industry sector loan .....    ...................     250.0          -           250.0
Mexico-Industry sector loan ........   .................     500.0          -           500.0
Nigeria-Engineering .................................         27.7          -            27.7
Turkey-Industry sector loan ........   .................      29.8           -           29.8'
Turkey-Industry sector loan ........   .................     204.5           -          204.5
Yemen Arab Republic-Industry sector loan ............           -          10.8          10.8
Total .............................................         1,858.0       124.5        1,982.5



Projects Approved by Sector    163
Sector'                                                         IBRD           IDA           Total
Nonproject
Argentina ...........................................          300.0           -           300.0
Bangladesh ..........................................            -            2.5     2,       5
Benin ..............................................             -           45.0           45.0
Cameroon ......         ...                          .         150.0           -           150.0
Chad ..............................................               -           16.2          16.2
Costa Rica ..........................................          100.0           -           100.0
Gambia. The .      .......................................        -          23.0           23.0
Ghana ..............................................              -          120.0         120.0
Guinea-Bissau .......................................             -          23.4           23.4
Honduras ...........................................            50.0           -            50.0
Indonesia ... . ......................................         350.0           -           350.0
Kenya ..............................................              -         120.0          120.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic .....................            -          40.0           40.0
Madagascar .........................................              -            1.4           1.4
Malawi .............................................              -           5.2            5,2
Mexico .............................................           500.0           -           500.0
Morocco ............................................           200.0           -           200.0
Mozambique ............................       ........            -          90.0           90.0
Nepal ..............................................              -          60.0           60.0
Nigeria ............................. ...............          500.0           -           500.0
Senegal ..............................................            -           5.5            5.5
Tanzania ............................................             -          135.0         135.0
Tanzania ............................................             -           12.5          12.5
Togo ..............................................               -           0.1            0. l
Uganda ........................ ...................              -            1.7             17b
Uganda .............................................             -           25.0           25, 0
Uruguay ...........................................            140.0           -           140.0
Venezuela ..................................... .....          402.0           -           402.0
Total .............................................        2,692.0        726.5        3,418.5
Population, Health, and Nutrition
Benin ..............................................              -           18.6          18.6
Brazil .............................. ...............           99.0           -            99.0
China ..............................................              -          52.0           52.0
India ..............................................            11.3        113.3          124.6
Indonesia ...........................................           43.5           -            43.5
Jordan ..............................................           73.0           -            73.0
Mozambique ........................................               -          27.0           27.0
Nigeria .............................................2 7.6                     -            27.6
Philippines ..........................................          70.1           -            70.1
Turkey .............................................            75.0           -            75.0
Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of ...............            -           4.5            4.5
Zaire ..............................................              -           8.1            8.1
Total ................ ............................          399.5        223.5          623.0
Small-scale Enterprises
Chile ..............................................            75.0           -            75.0
Colombia ...........................................            80.0           -            80.0
Indonesia ...........................................          100.0           -           100.0
Nigeria ............................................           270.0           -           270.0
(con tinuied)



164    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-2 (continued)
Sectora                                                       IBRD           IDA          Total
Small-scale Enterprises (continued)
Philippines ..........................................       60.0            -           60.0
Total .............................................       585.0            -          585.0
Technical Assistance
Argentina ...........................................        28.0            -           28.0
Argentina ...................... ....................         6.5            -            6.5
Bolivia ..............................................         -            9.7           9.7
Central African Republic .........  ....................       -           13.2          13.2
Guinea ..............................................          -           14.5          14.5
Guinea ..............................................          -            9.0           9.0
Madagascar ........................ ................           -           22.0          22.0
Malawi .................... ........................           -           11.3          11.3
Togo ...............................................           -            5.0           5.0
Togo ...............................................           -            5.0           5.0
Uganda .............................................           -           18.0          18.0
Uganda .............................................           -           15.0          15.0
Uruguay ............................................          6.5           -             6.5
Zaire ...............................................          -           11.6          11.6
Total ...............................................        41.0         134.3         175.3
Telecommunications
Benin ...............................................          -           16.0          16.0
Ecuador ............................................         45.0            -           45.0
Fiji ...............................................          8.1            -            8.1
Ghana ..............................................           -           19.0          19.0
Togo ...............................................           -           16.0          16.0
Uganda .............................................           -           52.3          52.3
Western Samoa ......................................           -            4.6           4.6
Total .............................................        53.1         107.9         161.0
Transportation
Algeria-Ports and waterways .........................        63.0            -           63.0
Bangladesh-Transportation sector loan ...... ..........        -          133.6         133.6
Bolivia-Railways .............   ......................        -           37.0          37.0
Cape Verde-Highways ..........      ....................       -            4.7           4.7
Chad-Transportation sector loan ......   ...............       -           60.0          60.0
China-Highways ....................................            -           61.0          61.0
China-Ports and waterways ........    ..................     36.0            -           36.0
China-Ports and waterways ..........................         76.4            -           76.4
China-Highways ..... _      ...........................      60.0          50.0         110.0
China-Railways .....................................         70.0          80.0         150.0
Ethiopia-Transportation sector loan ...................        -           72.0          72.0
Gabon-Highways ...................................           30.0            -           30.0
Guatemala-Highways ..........      .....................     31.5            -           31.5
Hungary-Transportation sector loan ......   ............     95.0            -           95.0
India-Highways ..............    ......................     170.0          80.0         250.0
Korea, Republic of-Highways ........................        200.0           -           200.0
Nepal-Transportation sector loan ..... ...............         -           32.8          32.8
Thailand-Highways .................................          87.0            -           87.0
Uganda-Railways ......... .........................            -            7.0           7.0



Projects Approved by Sector  165
Sector"                                                      IBRD          IDA           Total
Transportation (continued)
Uruguay-Transportation sector loan ......  ............      80.8           -            80.8
Yugoslavia-Railways .......    ........................      138.0          -           138.0
Zaire-Transportation sector loan ....... ..............        -           75.0          75.0
Total .............................................      1,137.7        693.1        1,830.8
Urban Development
Argentina ...........................................        300.0          -           300.0
Brazil ..............................................        100.0          -           100.0
Burundi .............................................          -           21.0          21.0
Cameroon ...........................................         146.0          -           146.0
Chile ..............................................         200.0          -           200.0
Chile ..............................................          75.0          -            75.0
Mozambique ........................................            -           60.0          60.0
Nepal ..............................................           -           41.5          41.5
Rwanda .............................................           -           32.0          32.0
Sudan .............................................            -           75.0          75.0
Tunisia ............................................          58.0          -            58.0
Zimbabwe ...........................................          80.0          -            80.0
Total .............................................        959.0        229.5        1,188.5
Water Supply and Sewerage
Brazil ..............................................2 80.0                 -           280.0
Egypt. Arab Republic of ..............................       36.0           -            36.0
Ghana ..............................................           -           25.0          25.0
Guinea .............................................                       40.0          40.0
Haiti.                                  . ..........           -           20.0          20.0
Mexico ............................................2 0.0                    -            20.0
Nigeria ............................................         173.2          -           173.2
Pakistan ............................................          -          125.0         125.0
Yemen. People's Democratic Republic of ...............         -           12.0          12.0
Yugoslavia ..........................................         60.0          -            60.0
Total ............................................         569.2        222.0         791.2
Grand total ........................................    16,433.2      4,933.6      21,366.8
NOTE: For additional details, see Tables 7-3 and 7-4.
- Zero.
a. Many projects include activity in more than one sector or subsector.
b. Supplementary financing to a previous loan, not counted as a separate operation.
c. B-loan applied to an existing project, not counted as a separate operation.



166    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-3. Statement of IBRD Loans Approved during Fiscal Year 1989
Principal
Borrower or guarantor                                                                  amount
Purpose                                                  Date of approval  Maturities  (USS millions)
Algeria
Desert locust control project ............ ..............  Jan. 31, 1989  1994/2004    58.0
West Mitidja irrigation project ................   ........  May 30, 1989  1994/2004  110.0
Third ports project      .................              June 29, 1989   1995/2004      63.0
Algeria (Guarantor)
Agricultural credit project-Banque de l'Agriculture
et du Developpement Rural .........................   Dec. 13, 1988   1994/2003     110.0
Argentina
Social sector management technical assistance project ...  July 26, 1988  1994/2003    28.0
First housing sector project ........ ...................  Oct. 27. 1988  1994/2003   300.0
Second trade policy project ........ ...................  Oct. 27. 1988  1994/2003    300.0
Electric power sector project ..........................  Oct. 27. 1988  1995/2001    252.0
Tax administration technical assistance project ..........  Jan. 24, 1989  1994/2004    6.5
Bahamas, The
Second technical and vocational training project .........  Dec. 8, 1988  1994/2003    10.0
Brazil
Jaiba irrigation project   .        ..................  Dec. 22. 1988   1994/2003      71.0
Amazon basin malaria control project    ..................  May 25. 1989  1994/2004    99.0
Brazil (Guarantor)
Parana land management I project-State of Parana  .....  Jan. 31. 1989  1994/2004      63.0
Sao Paulo natural gas distribution project-Companhia
de Gas de Sao Paulo ................................  Apr. 25, 1989   1994/2004      94.0
Parana municipal development project-State of Parana. .  June 22, 1989  1994/2004     100.0
Sao Paulo state water sector project-Companhia de
Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo ..... .....  June 28. 1989   1994/2004     280.0
Cameroon
Second urban development project   .      ............  Oct. 27. 1988   1994/2005     146.0
Livestock sector development project  .    ...........  Jan. 10, 1989   1994/2005      34.6
Structural adjustment program ........... .............  June 14. 1989  1995/2006     150.0
Chile
Urban streets and transport project ...... ..............  Mar. 21, 1989  1994/2006    75.0
Second housing sector project .........................  Mar. 28. 1989  1994/2006     200.0
Second industrial finance project   ......................  May 11. 1989  1995/2006    75.0
China                                                          / e
Xiamen port project ..................................  Dec. 13, 1988   1994/2008      36.0
Ningbo and Shanghai ports project .....................  Dec. 13, 1988  1994/2008      76.4
Tianjin light industry project ........ ..................  Feb. 21, 1989  1994/2009  154.0
Inner Mongolia local railway project .. .......  ..........  May 12, 1989  1994/2009   70.0
Hubei phosphate project ..............................  May 23, 1989    1994/2009     137.0
Shandong provincial highway project ...................  May 25. 1989   1994/2009      60.0
Fifth industrial credit project ..........................  May 30. 1989  1994/2009   300.0
Colombia
Second subsector project for primary education ..... ....  Dec. 20. 1988  1994/2006   100.0
Colombia (Guarantor)
Fifth small- and medium-scale enterprise project-
Central Bank of Colombia      ........................  Mar. 14, 1989  1994/2006   80.0



Statement of IBRD Loans    167
Principal
Borrower or guarantor                                                                     amount
Purpose                                                    Date of approval  Maturities  (US$ millions)
Costa Rica
Second structural adjustment loan .......  ..............  Dec. 13. 1988  1994/2005      100.0
Dominican Republic
Industrial free zone development project ..... ..........  Mar. 30, 1989  1994/2009       30.0
Ecuador (Guarantor)
First telecommunications project-Instituto
Ecuatoriano de Telecomunicaciones       .................  May 4. 1989  1994/2006       45.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of
Agricultural storage project ........ ...................  May 25. 1989   1995/2009       40.0
Egypt, Arab Republic of (Guarantor)
Second Alexandria water supply project-Alexandria
Water General Authority ........    ...................  Sept. 15, 1988  1994/2008      36.0
Fourth power project-Egyptian Electricity Authority ...   June 28, 1989   1995/2009      165.0
Fiji
Third telecommunications project ............... ......   May 25. 1989    1994/2006        8.1
Gabon
Road maintenance project .........    ...................  Apr. 27, 1989  1994/2004       30.0
Guatemala
Second basic education project ................. ......    Dec. 6, 1988   1994/2009       30.0
Secondary and regional road rehabilitation project .......  Dec. 6, 1988  1994/2008       31.5
Honduras
Structural adjustment loan .    ...........................  Sept. 15. 1988  1994/2008    50.0
Fourth agricultural credit ......... ....................  Sept. 15, 1988  1994/2008      25.0
Hungary
Second transport project ..............................  Mar. 30, 1989    1994/2004       95.0
Hungary (Guarantor)
Third industrial restructuring project-National
Bank of Hungary .............    .....................   Feb. 7, 1989   1994/2004      140.0
Energy development and conservation project-
Hungarian National Oil and Gas Trust and
National Bank of Hungary       ..........................  May II, 1989  1995/2004     110.0
India
States' road project ..................................   Oct. 20. 1988   1994/2008      170.0
Nathpa Jhakri power project ..........  .. .............  Mar. 2. 1989    1994/2009      485.0
Vocational training project    .       ................   Apr. 27. 1989   1994/2009       30.0
Upper Krishna (Phase 11) irrigation project  .............  May 4. 1989   1994/2009      165.0
Export development project      .       ........ ......   May 12. 1989    1994/2009      120.0
National sericulture project  ............. ..............  May 18, 1989  1994/2009       30.0
Maharashtra power project      .        ................  June 15, 1989   1995/2009      400.0
Electronics industry development project  .   .........   June 15. 1989   1995/2009        8.0
Sixth population project .............. .......... .....  June 29, 1989   1995/2009       11.3
(continuled)



168    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-3 (continued)
Principal
Borrower or guarantor                                                                 amount
Purpose                                                 Date of approval  Maturities  (US$ millions)
India (Guarantor)
Petroleum transport project-Indian Oil Corporation
Limited ...........................................  Apr. 27. 1989   1994/2009     340.0
Export development project-The Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation of India, Limited .........  May 12, 1989  1994/2009    175.0
Electronics industry development project-Industrial
Development Bank of India ........................   June 15. 1989   1995/2009     101.0
Electronics industry development project-Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation
of India ...........................................  June 15, 1989  1995/2009     101.0
Indonesia
Tree-crops human resource development project ........  Sept. 15. 1988  1994/2008     18.4
Tree-crop processing project ........ ..................  Nov. 15. 1988  1994/2008   118.2
Agricultural research management project ..... .........  Mar. 28, 1989  1994/2009    35.3
Third health project ............ ......................  Apr. 25, 1989  1994/2009    43.5
Small and medium industrial enterprise project ..........  Apr. 25. 1989  1994/2009  100.0
Industrial restructuring project ....... .................  Apr. 25, 1989  1994/2009  284.0
Private sector development project ...... ..............  June 6. 1989  1995/2009    350.0
Paiton thermal power project ..........................  June 22. 1989  1995/2009    354.0
Power sector efficiency project ....... .................  June 22, 1989  1995/2009  337.0
Jamaica
Emergency reconstruction import loan ...... ...........  Dec. 22, 1988  1994/2005     30.0
Clarendon alumina production project ............. ....  May 16. 1989  1995/2006      15.0
Jordan
Human resources development sector investment loan ...  June 29, 1989  1995/2006      73.0
Korea, Republic of
Technology advancement project .......   ...............  Apr. 18. 1989  1994/2004    16.4
Road improvement project .................. .........  May 16. 1989    1994/2004     200.0
Malaysia
Second primary and secondary education sector project. .  Aug. 2. 1988  1994/2003     58.8
Sabah land settlement and environmental management
project ............................................  Apr. 25. 1989  1994/2006      71.5
Mexico (Guarantor)
Industrial restructuring project-Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C ............................................   Apr. 27. 1989   1994/2006     250.0
Hydroelectric development project-Nacional
Financiera. S.N.C ............  .....................  June 8, 1989  1995/2006     460.0
Industry sector policy loan-Nacional Financiera.
S.N.C .... .......................................   June 13. 1989   1995/2006     500.0
Public enterprise reform loan-Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C ............................................   June 13. 1989   1995/2006     500.0
Financial sector adjustment loan-Banco Nacional
de Comercio Exterior. S.N.C .........  .............  June 13. 1989  1995/2006     500.0
Water, women, and development project-Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos. S.N.C .......  June 22. 1989  1995/2006     20.0



Statement of IBRD Loans   169
Principal
Borrower or guarantor                                                                 amount
Purpose                                                 Date of approval  Maturities  (US$ millions)
Morocco
Structural adjustment loan ......... ...................  Dec. 1, 1988  1994/2009    200.0
Rural primary education project ....... ................  Mar. 14, 1989  1994/2009    83.0
Agricultural research and extension project ..... ........  Apr. 18. 1989  1994/2009  28.0
Public administration support project ...................  May 2. 1989  1995/2009     23.0
Morocco (Guarantor)
National agricultural credit project-National
Agricultural Credit Bank ............................  June 14. 1989  1994/2009    190.0
Nigeria
Lagos state water supply project ....... ...............  July 28, 1988  1994/2008   173.2
Second multistate agricultural development project ......  Aug. 25. 1988  1994/2008   85.2
Private small and medium enterprise development
project ............................................  Oct. 20, 1988  1994/2008     270.0
Trade and investment policy loan ......................  Dec. 22. 1988  1994/2008    500.0
Imo health and population project ....... ..............  Mar. 30. 1989  1993/2008    27.6
Nigeria (Guarantor)
Refineries rehabilitation project-Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation .........   ...................  June 29, 1989  1992/2004     27.7
Pakistan
Agricultural sector adjustment loan ...... ..............  Aug. 2, 1988  1994/2008   200.0
Third industrial investment credit project ...............  Jan. 31, 1989  1994/2008  148.0
Financial sector adjustment loan .......................  Mar. 28, 1989  1994/2009   150.0
Second energy sector loan .........  ...................  June 29, 1989  1995/2009   250.0
Papua New Guinea
Land mobilization project ............ . ...............  May 4, 1989  1994/2009      19.6
Philippines
Fourth small and medium industries development
project ............................................  Apr. 25, 1989  1994/2009      60.0
Financial sector adjustment program ...... .............  May 4, 1989  1994/2009     300.0
Health development project ...........................  June 22, 1989  1995/2009      70.1
Philippines (Guarantor)
Manila power distribution project-Development
Bank of the Philippines .............................  June 8, 1989  1995/2009      65.5
Portugal
Tras-Os-Montes regional development project ..... ......  Apr. 11. 1989  1994/2004    90.0
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Agricultural rehabilitation and diversification project .....  Jan. 26, 1989  1994/2006  1.4
Thailand
Second highway sector project .......  .................  Dec. 13. 1988  1994/2008    87.0
Thailand (Guarantor)
Power system development project-Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand   ....................  Mar. 21. 1989  1994/2009   90.0
(continued)



170    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-3 (continued)
Principal
Borrower or guarantor                                                                     amount
Purpose                                                   Date of approval  Maturities  (US$ millions)
Tunisia
Education and training sector loan ....... ..............  May 11. 1989   1994/2006        95.0
Fifth urban project ...................................  May 18, 1989     1994/2006        58.0
Second agricultural sector adjustment loan ..............  June 1. 1989   1994/2006        84.0
Tunisia (Guarantor)
Petroleum exploration promotion project-Entreprise
Tunisienne d'Activites Petrolieres ...... .............  Feb. 21, 1989  1994/2006         5.5
Turkey
Second financial sector adjustment project (B-Loan) .....  Sept. 14, 1988  1999/2000       29.8
Health project .......................................   May 11, 1989    1994/2006         75.0
Second small- and medium-scale industry project ........  May 23, 1989   1994/2006        204.5
Agroindustry project     .................................  May 30, 1989  1994/2006       150.0
Third agricultural credit project  .      ..............  June 15, 1989  1995/2006        250.0
Uruguay
Transport project 1       ...... .............            Feb. 7, 1989   1994/2003         80.8
Second technical assistance project ....................  June 8, 1989   1995/2004          6.5
Second structural adjustment loan ..........  ...........  June 8. 1989  1995/2004        140.0
Venezuela
Trade policy loan ....................................   June 15, 1989   1995/2004        353.0
Structural adjustment loan .............  ............   June 15. 1989   1995/2004        402.0
Yugoslavia (Guarantor)
Seventh railway project-The Railway Transport
Organizations of Belgrade, Ljubljana, Novi Sad,
and Zagreb         .......................             May 23. 1989    1995/2004        138.0
Istria and Slovene coast water supply and sewerage
project-Rizana Water Works. Istrian Water
Works. Pula Water Works        ..........................  May 23. 1989  1994/2004       60.0
Zimbabwe
Agricultural credit and export promotion project  ........  May 18, 1989  1995/2009        36.3
Urban sector and regional development project ..... ....  June 1, 1989   1994/2009         80.0
Total            .             .16,433.2
International Finance Corporation (total amount for fiscal 1989).    -a           _b        179.1
Grand total .16,612.3
NOTE: All loans approved in fiscal year 1989 are at variable interest rates.
a. Various loans approved throughout the fiscal year.
b. Maturities vary for individual loans.



Statement of IDA Credits  171
Table 74. Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1989
Principal amount
(millions)
Country                                                                                   US$
Purpose                                        Date of approval  Maturities   SDR      equivalent
Bangladesh
Industrial sector credit (supplemental
credit) ................................    Mar. 13. 1989    1999/2028      1.9        2.5
Export development credit ...... ..........   April 11, 1989   1999/2028     19.4       25.0
Energy sector adjustment credit ..... ......  April II, 1989   1999/2028    137.0      175.0
Power distribution (16 towns) project .......  May 16, 1989    1999/2029    64.7        87.0
Third flood rehabilitation (emergency)
project ...............................     June 27, 1989    1999/2029   102.8       133.6
Benin
Telecommunications project ...............     Nov. 8, 1988   1999/2028     12.5        16.0
Structural adjustment program .............   May 23, 1989     1999/2029    33.5        45.0
Health services development project ...  ...   June 6, 1989    1999/2029    14.1        18.6
Bolivia
Economic management strengthening
project ................................    Dec. 22, 1988    1999/2028     7.2         9.7
Financial sector adjustment credit
(supplemental credit) ....... ............  Mar. 13. 1989    1999/2028     9.2        11.3
Mining sector rehabilitation project .........  May II. 1989  1999/2029     26.5        35.0
Export corridors project ....... ...........  May 11. 1989     1999/2029    28.3        37.0
Burkina Faso
Agricultural services project ...............  Jan. 17. 1989  1999/2028     31.2        42.0
Burundi
Second urban development project ..... ....    Dec. 6. 1988    1999/2028     16.1       21.0
Agricultural services sector project .........  May 25. 1989   1999/2029    25.1        33.1
Cape Verde
Infrastructure rehabilitation and technical
assistance project ......... .............  Sept. 8. 1988    1999/2028     3.5         4.7
Central African Republic
Economic management project .....   .......   Dec. 13. 1988    1999/2028     10.3       13.2
Energy project ...... . ...................   Jan. 10. 1989   1999/2028      13.5       18.0
Chad
Financial rehabilitation program ..... ......  July 26, 1988   1999/2028     11.9       16.2
Education rehabilitation program ...........   Aug. 2, 1988    1999/2028    16.2        22.0
Transport sector adjustment/investment
project .......................... ...      April 25, 1989  1999/2629     45.4        60.0
China
Jiangxi provincial highway project  .........  Feb. 7. 1989    1999/2023    44.7        61.0
Shaanxi agricultural development project ...  Mar. 28, 1989    1999/2023    78.8       106.0
Textbook development project ...........      April 18. 1989   1999/2023    41.8        57.0
Integrated regional health development
project ...............................      May 2. 1989    1999/2024     39.4        52.0
Inner Mongolia local railway project .  ......  May 12, 1989   1999/2024    58.6        80.0
Shandong agricultural development project. .  May 16, 1989     1999/2024    82.5       109.0
Shandong provincial highway project  .......  May 25. 1989     1999/2024    38.8        50.0
(continued)



172    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 74 (continued)
Principal amount
(millions)
Country                                                                                USS
Purpose                                       Date of approval  Maturities  SDR      equivalent
Djibouti
Geothermal development project ...........   June 29, 1989   1999/2029     7.1        9.2
Ethiopia .
First peasant agricultural development
project ................................   Oct. 18, 1988   1999/2028    66.0       85.0
Transport project .........................  April 11, 1989  1999/2029    55.8       72.0
Gambia, The
Enterprise development project ............  Dec. 22, 1988   1999/2028     7.3       10.0
Second structural adjustment program  ......  June 8, 1989   1999/2029    17.9       23.0
Ghana
Second telecommunications project  ........  July 26, 1988   1999/2028    13.8       19.0
Forest resource management project  .......  Dec. 22, 1988   1999/2028    30.6       39.4
Financial sector adjustment credit
(supplemental credit) ........ ..........  Mar. 13, 1989   1999/2028     5.1        6.6
Private small and medium enterprise
development project ....................   Mar. 28. 1989   1999/2029    22.3       30.0
Second structural adjustment credit ........  April 18, 1989  1999/2029   89.2      120.0
Rural finance project ......... ............  June 14, 1989  1999/2029    15.2       20.0
Water sector rehabilitation project .........  June 14, 1989  1999/2029   19.3       25.0
Guinea
National agricultural research and extension
project ...............................    Sept. 15. 1988  1999/2028    14.2        18.4
Second economic management support
project ...............................    Nov. 8. 1988    1999/2028    11.3        14.5
Second water supply project ...............  Feb. 21, 1989   1999/2029    29.3       40.0
Socioeconomic development support
project ................................   Mar. 28, 1989   1999/2029     6.9        9.0
Guinea-Bissau
Social and infrastructure relief project  ......  May 18. 1989  1999/2029  3.8        5.0
Second structural adjustment program  ......  May 18. 1989   1999/2028    18.0       23.4
Haiti
Fifth power project .......... .............  June 27. 1989  1999/2029    18.6       24.0
Port-au-Prince water supply project ........  June 27. 1989  1999/2029    15.2       20.0
India
Third national seeds project ...... .........  Aug. 25. 1988  1998/2023  108.6       150.0
States' road project .......................  Oct. 20. 1988  1998/2023    62.2       80.0
Vocational training project ....... .........  April 27, 1989  1998/2023  189.2     250.0
Upper Krishna (Phase 11) irrigation project. .  May 4, 1989  1999/2023   119.0      160.0
National sericulture project ................  May 18, 1989  1999/2024   113.8      147.0
Sixth population project ...................  June 29. 1989  1999/2024    87.2       113.3
Kenya
Geothermal development and energy
preinvestment project ...................  Dec. 22, 1988   1998/2023    31.6       40.7
Rural services design project ...... ........  Dec. 22, 1988  1998/2023   15.5       20.8
Industrial sector adjustment credit
(supplemental credit) ........ ...........  Mar. 13, 1989  1998/2023    41.4       53.7
Financial sector adjustment credit ..........  June 27, 1989  1999/2024   92.9      120.0



Statement of IDA Credits  173
Principal amount
(millions)
Country                                                                                   US$
Purpose                                        Date of approval  Maturities   SDR      equivalent
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Industrial credit project ..........  ........  July 26. 1988  1998/2028     7.4        10.0
National polytechnic institute project  .......  April 11. 1989  1999/2029   2.7         3.5
Structural adjustment program ...... .......  June 14, 1989    1999/2029    30.8        40.0
Madagascar
Economic management and social action
project ................................     Dec. 6, 1988    1998/2028    17.1        22.0
Public sector adjustment credit
(supplemental credit) ........ ...........  Mar. 13, 1989    1998/2028     1.1         1.4
National agricultural research project .......  June 15. 1989  1999/2029    18.6        24.0
Malawi
Agricultural marketing and estate
development project ....................     Dec. 1, 1988    1998/2028    14.2        18.3
Industry and trade adjustment credit
(supplemental credit) ........ ...........  Mar. 13, 1989    1998/2028     4.0         5.2
Energy I project ............ .............   Mar. 14, 1989    1998/2028    34.8        46.7
Institutional development project ..... .....  June 13, 1989   1999/2029     8.8        11.3
Maldives
Education and training project ...... .......  Jan. 26, 1989   1998/2028     6.0         8.2
Mali
Second power project .....................    Mar. 30, 1989    1999/2028    24.2        33.0
Education sector consolidation project ......  June 29. 1989  1999/2029     20.2        26.0
Mauritania
Education sector restructuring project  ......  July 19, 1988  1998/2028    13.2        18.2
Mozambique
Urban rehabilitation project ...... .........  Aug. 2, 1988    1998/2028    44.0        60.0
Health and nutrition project ...... .........  Mar. 14, 1989   1998/2028    21.0        27.0
Third rehabilitation project ....... .........  May 18, 1989   1999/2029    68.2        90.0
Urban household energy project ..... ......    June 8. 1989    1999/2029    17.1 '      22.0
Nepal
Municipal development and earthquake
emergency housing reconstruction project.   Mar. 14, 1989    1998/2028    30.9        41.5
Arun III access road project ...............  May 30. 1989     1999/2029    24.4        32.8
Hill community forestry project ............  May 30, 1989    1999/2029     23.5        30.5
Engineering education project ...... .......  June 22, 1989    1999/2029     8.8        11.4
Earthquake emergency schools rehabilitation
project ................................    June 27, 1989    1999/2029    17.6        22.8
Second structural adjustment credit ........  June 27, 1989    1999/2029    46.2        60.0
Nigeria
Third multistate agricultural development
project ................................    June 13, 1989    1999/2024    75.0       100.9
(continued)



174    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 74 (continued)
Principal amount
(millions)
Country                                                                                US$
Purpose                                       Date of approval  Maturities  SDR      equivalent
Pakistan
Third industrial investment credit ..... .....  Jan. 31, 1989  1999/2023   1.5        2.0
Second Karachi water supply and sanitation
project ................................   Feb. 28, 1989   1999/2023    97.1       125.0
1988 flood damage restoration project  ......  April 11, 1989  1999/2024  30.6       40.0
Private tubewell development project .......  April 11, 1989  1999/2024   26.3       34.4
Rwanda
Agricultural services project ..............  May 30, 1989   1999/2029    15.5        19.9
Urban institutions sectoral development
project . ...............................  June 15. 1989   1999/2029    24.8       32.0
Sao Tome and Principe
Multisector project ......... ..............  June 14, 1989  1999/2029     3.9        5.0
Senegal
Third structural adjustment credit
(supplemental credit) ....... ............  Mar. 13, 1989  1999/2028     4.2        5.5
Second small rural operations project .......  Mar. 21, 1989  1999/2028   12.0        16.1
Somalia
Central rangelands research and
development project ....................   Oct. 18, 1988   1999/2028    14.7        19.0
Second agricultural sector adjustment
program ........................... ...     June 1, 1989   1999/2029    54.2       70.0
Sri Lanka
Third industrial development project  ....   July 26, 1988   1999/2028    31.7       43.8
Forest sector development project ..... ....  June 15. 1989  1999/2029    15.5        19.9
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Agricultural rehabilitation and diversification
project ................................   Jan. 26, 1989   1999/2023     1.1        1.4
Sudan
Southern Kassala agricultural project .......  Nov. 8. 1988  1999/2028    15.6       20.0
Emergency flood reconstruction project .....  May 4. 1989    1999/2029    54.9       75.0
Tanzania
National agricultural and livestock research
project ................................   Dec. 13, 1988   1999/2028     6.0        8.3
Industrial rehabilitation and trade
adjustment program ........  ............  Dec. 13, 1988   1999/2028    97.6       135.0
Industrial rehabilitation and trade
adjustment credit (supplemental credit) ...  Mar. 13. 1989  1999/2028    9.7        12.5
National agricultural and livestock extension
rehabilitation project ....................  Mar. 21. 1989  1999/2029   13.7        18.4
Cashew and coconut treecrops project ......  June 27. 1989   1999/2029    19.4       25.1
Togo
Third structural adjustment credit
(supplemental credit) ....... ............  Mar. 13, 1989  1999/2027     0.1        0.1
Grassroots development initiatives project . .  Mar. 21. 1989  1999/2029   3.8        5.0
Preinvestment project .....................  May 18, 1989    1999/2028     3.9        5.0
Telecommunications project ...... .........  June 29, 1989   1999/2029    12.4        16.0



Statement of IDA Credits  175
Principal amount
(millions)
Country                                                                                   US$
Purpose                                        Date of approval  Maturities   SDR      equivalent
Uganda
Third technical assistance program .........  Aug. 23, 1988    1999/2028     13.8        18.0
Public enterprise project ....   ........      Nov. 8, 1988    1999/2028    11.7         15.0
Fourth education project .............  ....  Nov. 15, 1988    1999/2028     17.1        22.0
Railways project .......... ...............   Feb. 21. 1989    1999/2029     5.2          7.0
Economic recovery program I (supplemental
credit) ................................    Mar. 13. 1989    1997/2027      1.3         1.7
Second telecommunications rehabilitation
project ................................    Mar. 14. 1989   1999/2029     38.3         52.3
Economic recovery program (supplemental
credit) ................................    April 20. 1989   1997/2027     19.0        25.0
Vanuatu
Primary and secondary education project ...   Nov. 15. 1988    1999/2028     6.3          8.0
Western Samoa
Telecommunications project ...... .........    June 8. 1989    1999/2029     3.6          4.6
Yemen Arab Republic
Eastern Region agricultural development
project ................................    Jan. 31. 1989   1999/2029      11.0        15.0
Institutional development for public
administration project ...................  May 12. 1989    1999/2029      8.2         10.8
Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of
Al Mukalla water supply project ..... ......  July 19. 1988    1999/2028     8.7         12.0
Second health development project .........   Dec. 13. 1988    1999/2028     3.5          4.5
Third Wadi Hadramawt agricultural
development project ..............          June 22, 1989    1999/2029     9.3         12.0
Zaire
National AIDS control program assistance
project ................................    Sept. 8. 1988    1999/2028     6.2          8.1
Agricultural sector management and
institutional development project ..... ....  Oct. 20. 1988  1999/2028     9.0         11.6
First transport rehabilitation project .. .........  May 30. 1989  1999/2029  57.3       75.0
Second Gecamines technical assistance
project ...................      ......     June 27. 1989    1999/2029    15.4         20.0
Total                                                                   3,738.1     4,933.6
NOTE: Starting with the sixth replenishment of IDA. credits are expr-essed in special drawing rights (SDRs). The US-dollar
equivalent of the original principal amount of credits denominated in SDRs is shown at the rate approved by the executive
board. All credits approved in fiscal 1989 have a service charge of 0.75 percent on the unwithdrawn balance.



176    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-5. IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose
and Region, June 30, 1989
(millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans to borrowers, by region'
Europe.
Middle      Latin
East, and   America
North      and the
Purposeb                                  Africa      Asia      Africa    Caribbean     Total
Agriculture and Rural Development
Agricultural credit ........ ............  319.8     1,287.9   2,610.3     2,445.4      6,663.4
Agriculture sector loan ....... .........    14.6     427.3    1,232.0     2,082.1      3,756.0
Agroindustry .........................      30.0      325.2    1,049.7     1,126.9      2,531.8
Area development .........  ...........   1,464.6    1,639.9   1,004.5     2,927.4      7,036.4
Fisheries .............................      0.0      106.7       48.0        16.2       170.9
Forestry .............................     255.0       58.0      268.5        70.5       652.0
Irrigation and drainage .............  _ .  110.2    3,800.7   2,645.8     1,827.3      8,384.0
Livestock ............................      170.7     318.0      236.0     1,042.0      1,766.7
Perennial crops . .......................  528.5     1,218.0     108.0       123.0      1,977.5
Research and extension ................     64.9      448.4      127.4       538.0      1,178.7
Total ..............................    2,958.3    9,630.1   9,330.2    12,198.8     34,117.4
Development Finance Companies ..... .....   1,059.0    5.162.8   5,721.7     5,731.1     17,674.6
Education ..............................     392.1     2,520.0   1,926.8     1,212.7      6,051.6
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal ......... ............   167.2    4,278.8   1,630.8     1,122.2      7,199.0
Power ...............................     1,612.1   12,876.7   5,708.2    10,342.2     30,539.2
Total ..............................    1,779.3   17,155.5   7.339.0    11.464.4     37,738.2
Industry
Engineering .....  ....................     27.7       10.0       11.0         9.5        58.2
Fertilizer and other chemicals  ..........   0.0     1,701.1     776.4       848.5      3.326.0
Industry sector loan ........ ...........    0.6     1,776.1   1,901.0     1,359.5      5,037.2
Iron and steel .........  ..............    20.0      189.0      512.8     1,067.0      1,788.8
Mining, other extractive ...... .........  533.5        0.0      212.2       547.5      1,293.2
Paper and pulp ........... ............     48.4       105.5     263.3        20.0       437.2
Textiles ..............................     63.0      157.4      307.3         0.0       527.7
Tourism sector loan ........ ...........    54.5       25.0       96.6       187.5       363.6
Total ..............................     747.7     3,964.1   4,080.6     4.039.5     12.831.9
Nonproject .............................    1,943.6    3,329.3   3,725.9c    4,335.6     13.334.4
Population, Health, and Nutrition  .........  104.8     434.8      232.2       478.8      1,250.6
Small-scale Enterprises ...................  440.7     1,291.5     808.0     1,935.6      4,475.8
Technical Assistance ......... ............   124.8      23.0        8.8       173.3       329.9
Telecommunications ......... ...........      285.2     981.0      821.8       508.3  2.596.3
Transportation
Airlines and airports ........ ..........   59.0       14.8        7.0       218.5       299.3
Highways ............................     1,772.9    4,388.5   2.816.3     4,745.3     13,723.0
Pipelines ...........................        0.0        0.0       94.5        23.3       117.8
Ports and waterways ........  ..........   285.9     1,722.5   1,492.6       523.7      4,024.7
Railways .............................     694.9     3,013.8   1,483.9     1,938.5      7,131.1
Transportation sector loan ...... .......   61.6      377.2      372.0       128.6       939.4
Total ............ .................    2,874.3    9,516.8   6.266.3     7,577.9     26,235.3
Urban Development .........   ............   805.3     2,652.5     650.8     3,039.1      7.147.7
Water Supply and Sewerage ......  ........   701.9     1,226.4   2,848.8     2.921.2      7,698.3
Grand total .........................  14.217.0   57,887.8  43,760.9    55.616.3    171,482.0
a. Except for the total amount shown in footnote d, no account is taken of cancellations and refundings subsequent to
original commitment. Amounts of cancellations and refundings are shown by countrv and purpose in the Statement of Loans
and Development Credits. IBRD loans of $2,485.0 million to the IFC are excluded.
b. Operations have been classified by the major purpose they finance. Many projects include activity in more than one sector
or subsector.



Cumulative Lending Operations, by Purpose and Region  177
IDA credits to borrowers, by region'
Europe,
Middle          Latin
East, and       America
North          and the                        Total IBRD
Africa             Asia          Africa         Caribbean        Total          and IDA
366.6             2,154.3         304.0            23.5          2,848.4          9,511.8
237.7              327.7           40.0             1.4           606.8           4,362.8
333.4              676.9          138.0            15.0          1,163.3          3,695.1
1.562.1            1,345.9          200.6           51.1          3,159.7         10,196.1
46.9               147.7          54.1             0.0           248.7            419.6
311.7              710.0            1.7            12.8          1,036.2          1,688.2
827.1             4,922.9        1,214.2           18.5          6,982.7         15,366.7
416.4              331.2           49.5            67.5           864.6           2,631.3
425.6              471.3           15.0             3.2           915.1           2,892.6
347.9              735.1          101.9             0.0          1,184.9          2,363.6
4,875.4            11,823.0       2,119.0           193.0        19,010.4         53,127.8
709.8              397.1          273.7           108.5          1,489.1         19,163.7
1,428.6            1,461.9          598.6           73.6          3,562.7          9,614.3
334.5              368.7          111.0            33.0           847.2           8,046.2
915.1             3,528.0         341.1           189.7          4,973.9         35,513.1
1,249.6            3,896.7          452.1          222.7          5,821.1         43.559.3
16.7                0.0            0.0             0.0            16.7             74.9
35.0              884.0           76.4             0.0           995.4           4,321.4
212.6               36.4           29.5             0.0           278.5           5,315.7
40.0                0.0            0.0             0.0            40.0           1,828.8
20.9               16.0            0.0            49.5            86.4           1,379.6
50.0                0.0            0.0             0.0            50.0            487.2
20.0              104.7            7.0             0.0           131.7            659.4
18.0               20.2           48.5             0.0            86.7            450.3
413.2             1,061.3         161.4            49.5          1.685.4         14,517.3
2,604.7            2,969.1          395.0           204.1         6,172.9         19,507.3
361.2              821.3           80.2             0.0          1,262.7          2,513.3
98.7              236.5           88.8             0.0           424.0           4,899.8
608.9              155.2           44.6            24.2           832.9           1,162.8
339.3              787.8          142.7             0.0          1,269.8          3,866.1
14.0                0.0            2.5             0.0            16.5            315.8
2,269.7            1,042.0          282.3           167.3         3,761.3         17,484.3
0.0                0.0            0.0             0.0             0.0            117.8
376.9              327.7           44.7            16.0           765.3           4,790.0
471.6             1,124.2         138.5            45.0          1,779.3          8,910.4
222.0              334.5            0.0             0.0           556.5           1,495.9
3,354.2            2,828.4          468.0           228.3         6,878.9         33,114.2
538.2             1,326.3         226.3            90.0          2,180.8          9,328.5
520.2             1,125.6         424.9            38.6          2,109.3          9,807.6
17,102.0           28,890.2        5,475.3         1,232.5        52,700.0        224,182.0
c. Includes $497 million in European reconstruction loans made before 1952.
d. Cancellations, terminations. and refundings amount to $1,925.6 million for the IBRD and $1,822.6 million for IDA,
totaling $12,748.2 million. This amount includes $46.1 million of loans and $175.8 million of credits made to Pakistan in earlier
years for development projects in its former eastern wing, now Bangladesh. The loans and credits were reactivated, in
revised form, as commitments to Bangladesh.



178    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-6. IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or
Guarantor, June 30, 1989
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans         IDA credits          Total
Borrower or guarantor                    Number    Amount    Number   Amount   Number    Amount
Afghanistan ............................    -         -        20      230.1     20        230.1
Algeria ...............................     39      3,077.0    -        -        39      3,077.0
Argentina ..............................    40      5,120.8    -        -        40      5,120.8
Australia ...............................    7       417.7     -        -         7        417.7
Austria ...............................      9       106.4     -         -        9        106.4
Bahamas, The ..........................      5        42.8     -        -         5         42.8
Bangladesha ...........................      1        46.1    121     4,708.5    122     4,754.6
Barbados ..............................      9        74.2     -        -         9         74.2
Belgium ...............................      4        76.0     -        -         4         76.0
Belize ...............................       4        26.2     -        -         4         26.2
Benin ................................      -         -        28      360.6     28        360.6
Bhutan ...............................      -         -         5       22.8      5         22.8
Bolivia ...............................     14       299.3     26      455.2     40        754.5
Botswana ..............................     19       265.8      6        15.8    25        281.6
Brazil ................................    177     16,412.6    -        -        177    16,412.6
Burkina Fasob .. ........................   -          1.9     30      375.4     30        377.3
Burundi ...............................      1         4.8     36      470.9     37        475.7
Cameroon ..............................     40      1,219.9    15      253.0     55      1,472.9
Cape Verde ............................     -         -         4       20.1      4         20.1
Caribbean Regiond ..........2...........              43.0      2       20.0      4         63.0
Central African Republic ....... .........  -         -         17     217.3      17       217.3
Chadb ...............................       -         -        22      307.5     22        307.5
Chile ...............................       42      2,314.7    -         19.0    42      2,333.7
China ...............................       50      5,280.2    28     3.337.3    78      8,617.5
Colombia .............. ...............    122      6,376.4    -         19.5    122     6,395.9
Comoros .............................       -         -         8       40.5       8        40.5
Congo, People's Republic of the ..........   9       200.9      8       74.6     17        275.5
Costa Rica .............................    32       616.9     -         5.5     32        622.4
C6te d'lvoire e.. ........................  52      2,037.8     1        7.5     53      2,045.3
Cyprus ................................     27       331.8     -        -        27        331.8
Denmark ...............................      3        85.0     -        -          3        85.0
Djibouti ...............................    -         -         6       34.6       6        34.6
Dominica ..............................     -         -         3        11.0     3         11.0
Dominican Republic .....................    19       472.9      3       22.0     22        494.9
East African Communityr .   ...............  10      244.8     -        -         10       244.8
Eastern and Southern Africa Regions .....   -         -         I       45.0       1        45.0
Ecuador ...............................     44      1,317.9     5       36.9     49      1,354.8
Egypt, Arab Republic of .................   48      3,061.3    26      981.2     74      4,042.5
El Salvador ............................    19       281.1      2       25.6     21        306.7
Equatorial Guinea .......................   -         -         6       30.8       6        30.8
Ethiopia ...............................    12       108.6     45     1,189.6    57      1.298.2
Fiji ................................          1     121.7     -        -         11       121.7
Finland ...............................     18       316.8     -        -         18       316.8
France ...............................       1       250.0     -        -          I       250.0
Gabonh...............................        8       149.3     -        -          8       149.3



Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower     179
IBRD loans         IDA credits            Total
Borrower or guarantor                      Number    Amount    Number    Amount   Number     Amount
Gambia. The ...........................       -          -         18       112.7    18        112.7
Ghanae .,                      ,,,,,,,,,.      9        207.0     47      1.263.0    56       1.470.0
Greece .................................      17        490.8     -         -         17       490.8
Grenada ...............................       -          -          I        5.0       1         5.0
Guatemala ............................        21        585.1     -         -        21        585.1
Guinea ...............................         3         75.2     31       562.1     34        637.3
Guinea-Bissau ..........................      -          -         14       129.2    14        129.2
Guyana ................................       12         80.0      5        54.3     17        134.3
Haiti .............................2....       I           .6     26       363.4     27        366.0
Honduras ........................... _        32        627.3      5        83.'     37        710.5
Hungary ..................... .........       19      1,976.9     -         -         19      1,976.9
Iceland ................................      l0         47.1     -         -         10        47.1
India .................................      124     17,211.2    177     16.123.3   301     33.334.5
Indonesia ..............................     138     13.196.6     46       931.8    184      14.128.4
Iran, Islamic Republic of ....... .........   33      1.210.7     -         -        33       1,210.7
Iraq .................................         6        156.2     -         -         6        156.2
Ireland .................................      8        152.5     -         -         8        152.5
Israel ...............................        II        284.5     -         -         11       284.5
Italy .................................        8        399.6     -         -         8        399.6
Jamaica ................................      48        881.4     -         -        48        881.4
Japan.................................        31        862.9     -         -        31        862.9
Jordan .................................      29        843.4      15       85.3     44        928.7
Kenya .................................       46      1,200.0     44      1,195.8    90      2,395.8
Korea. Republic of ......................     89      7.043.4      6       110.8     95      7,154.2
Lao People's Democratic Republic ........     -          -        I I      150.5      11       150.5
Lebanon ...............................        4        116.6     -         -         4        116.6
Lesotho ......... ......................      -          -        18       145.1     18        145.1
Liberia ...............................       21        156.0     14       114.5     35        270.5
Luxembourg ...........................         1         12.0     -         -          I        12.0
Madagascar .    ..........................     5         32.9     45       850.5     50        883.4
Malawi .................................       9        124.1     43       718.1     52        842.2
Malaysia .................. ............      75      2,630.4     -         -        75      2,630.4
Maldives ...............................      -          -         3         16.4     3         16.4
Malibc. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -1.9  38  569.6  38     571.5
Malta' ................................        I          7.5     -         -          1         7.5
Mauritaniab .... .........................     3        146.0     23        166.9    26        312.9
Mauritius .............................       20        253.7      4        20.2     24        273.9
Mexico ................................      116     14,756.1     -         -        116     14,756.1
Morocco ...............................       84      4,695.2      3        50.8     87      4,746.0
Mozambique ...........     ...............    -          -         8       349.9      8        349.9
Myanmark ..............................        3         33.4     30       804.0     33        837.4
Nepal .................................       -          -        55      1,011.1    55       1,011.1
Netherlands ..                                ..       ............... __ ....  8  244.0  -  -  8  244.0
New Zealand ..........    ................     6        126.8     -         -         6        126.8
Nicaragua ............................2..      7        233.6      4        60.0     31        293.6
(confinued)



180    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-6 (continued)
IBRD loans         IDA credits            Total
Borrower or guarantor                      Number    Amount   Number    Amount   Number    Amount
Nigerb.          . ..............................,,       -      31       430.6     31       430.6
Nigeria ...............................       73     5,061.1      3       136.4     76     5,197.5
Norway ................................       6        145.0     -          -        6       145.0
Oman ...............................          I 1      157.1                -       I 1      157.1
Pakistan' ..............................     67      3,557.6     80     3,028.7    147     6,586.3
Panama ...............................       31       696.3      -          -       31       696.3
Papua New Guinea ......................       19      344.1       9       113.2     28       457.3
Paraguay ...............................      27      458.1       6        45.5     33       503.6
Peru ...............................         60      1,711.9     -          -       60      1,711.9
Philippines .............................    107     5,809.3      3       122.2    110     5,931.5
Portugal ...............................      32     1.338.8     -          -       32      1,338.8
Romania ...............................       33     2.184.3     -          -       33     2,184.3
Rwanda ...............................       -           -       34       382.2     34       382.2
Sao Tome and Principe ........  ..........   -           -        4        21.9      4        21.9
Senegalb"  ................  .............    19       164.9     44       647.7     63       812.6
Seychelles .............................       1        6.2      -          -        1         6.2
Sierra Leone ............................     4         18.7     12       116.1     16       134.8
Singapore ..                                 .............................  14  181.3  -  -  14  181.3
Solomon Islands ........................     -           -        5        17.0      5        17.0
Somalia ...............................      -           -       37       437.5     37       437.5
South Africa ............................     11      241.8      -          -       11       241.8
Spain ...............................         12      478.7      -          -       12       478.7
Sri Lanka ..............................      12      210.7      48     1,180.4     60      1,391.1
St. Vincent and the Grenadines ...........     1         1.4      1         6.4      2         7.8
Sudan   ................................      8        166.0     46     1,254.7     54      1,420.7
NOTE: Joint IBRD/IDA operations are counted only once, as IBRD operations. When more than one loan is made for a
single project, the operation is counted only once. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Includes $46.1 million in IBRD amount and one IBRD loan, as well as $175.8 million in IDA credits, which replace
commitments originally made to Pakistan.
b. One IDA project, in fiscal year 1974, for drought relief, is shared by the following countries: Burkina Faso-$2 million;
Chad-$2 million: Mali-$2.5 million; Mauritania-$2.5 million; Niger-$2 million; Senegal-S3 million. The amounts are
included in each country's total, but the operation is counted only once, against Senegal.
c. One IBRD loan of $7.5 million, in fiscal year 1954, is shared in amounts of $1.875 million each by Burkina Faso, C6te
d'Ivoire, Mali, and Senegal, but is counted as one operation, against C6te d'lvoire. One IBRD loan, of $23 million, in fiscal
year 1978, is guaranteed by Burkina Faso and C6te d'lvoire, but is counted as one operation, against Cote d'lvoire.
d. One IBRD loan of $20 million in fiscal year 1976 and one IBRD loan of $23 million and one IDA credit of $7 million in fiscal
year 1980 were made for the benefit of the following IBRD/IDA members-The Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, and
Jamaica-and for the benefit of the territories of the United Kingdom's Associated States and Dependencies in the Caribbean
Region. The members are severally liable as guarantors to the extent of subloans made in their territories. One IDA credit
of $7 million in fiscal year 1983 was made for the benefit of the following IDA members-Dominica. Grenada, St. Lucia. and
St. Vincent and the Grenadines-and for the benefit of the United Kingdom's then Associated State, St. Kitts and Nevis,
and the United Kingdom Dependency, Montserrat: Antigua and Barbuda would become eligible after admission to IDA
membership. The members are severally liable for the credit to the extent of subloans made in their territofies, while
Montserrat is eligible to borrow as a Dependency of the United Kingdom. One IDA credit of $6 million in fiscal year 1987
to the Caribbean Development Bank. which is relending the proceeds to the beneficiary states of Dominica, Grenada, St.
Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, supports a regional vocational and technical-education
project.
e. Of the one IBRD project, of $60 million, in fiscal year 1976, $49.5 million has been lent to Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(CIMAO) and is jointly guaranteed by Cote d'lvoire, Ghana, and Togo. The remaining amount of $10.5 million has been
assigned in equal shares to each of the three countries. The operation is counted only once, against Togo. Two IDA credits
in fiscal year 1983-one of $9.3 million to Ghana and one of $5.7 million to Togo-for the restructuring of CIMAO are
counted as one operation, against Togo.
f. Jointly guaranteed by Kenya. Tanzania, and Uganda.
g. The credit is shared equally, in amounts of $15 million each, by Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire.



Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower    181
IBRD loans         IDA credits            Total
Borrower or guarantor                      Number    Amount   Number    Amount   Number    Amount
Swaziland ..............................      11        75.8       2        7.8      13        83.6
Syrian Arab Republic .......   ............   17       613.2       3       47.3      20       660.5
Tanzania ...............................      18       318.2      64     1,255.6     82      1,573.8
Thailand ...............................      91      4,042.6      6      125.1      97     4,167.7
Togo' ..............................            1       20.0      30      415.9      31       435.9
Tonga .................................       -           -        1        2.0       1         2.0
Trinidad and Tobago .......   .............    13       124.8     -          -       13       124.8
Tunisia ................................      80      2.383.2      5       74.6      85      2,457.8
Turkey ................................       97      9,839.0     10      178.5     107     10,017.5
Uganda ................................        1         8.4      34      876.1      35       884.5
Uruguay ................................      31       920.6      -          -       31       920.6
Vanuatu ...............................       -           -        3       12.0       3        12.0
Venezuela ..............................       15     1,138.3     -          -       15      1.138.3
Viet Nam .    ............................    -           -        1       60.0       1        60.0
Westem Africa Region' .....           ....      1        6.1       3       52.5       4        58.6
Western Samoa ............ ............       -           -        7       26.5       7        26.5
Yemen Arab Republic ...................       -           -       53      558.0      53       558.0
Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of..      -           -       32      240.8      32       240.8
Yugoslavia .............................      87      5,122.7     -          -       87     5.122.7
Zaire ..................................       7       330.0      53    1,055.2      60     1.385.2
Zambian .................. ............       28       679.1      19      317.1      47       996.2
Zimbabwe' ....   ..........................    19      690.1       3       53.9      22       744.0
OtherP .............................           14      329.4       4       15.3      18       344.7
Total ............................. -     3,055   171,482.0   1,904  52,700.0   4,959   224,182.0
h. One IBRD loan of $35 million, in fiscal year 1959, is jointly guaranteed by the People's Republic of the Congo, France,
and Gabon.
i. The IDA credits include an amount of $45 million for the Sixth Highway Project approved in fiscal year 1983. In fiscal year
1984, $20 million of this amount was transferred to the Special Fund administered by the International Development
Association.
j. IBRD loan made to Malta with the guarantee of the United Kingdom before Malta's independence from the United
Kingdom. The loan has been repaid.
k. Formerly Burma.
1. Excludes $46.1 million in IBRD amount and one IBRD loan, as well as $175.8 million in IDA amount and ninetcen IDA
credits, which were replaced by commitments made to Bangladesh.
m. One loan of $6.1 million and one credit of $14 million in fiscal year 1983. counted as one operation. and one credit of $3
million in fiscal year 1980 are to the Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD), the regional development bank of
the Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine (UMOA), which is a monetary union of six francophone states-Burkina Faso, Benin,
Cote d'lvoire, Niger. Senegal, and Togo. One credit of $30 million in fiscal year 1984 is shared in equal parts by Benin and
Togo, and is counted as one operation. One credit of $5.5 million in fiscal year 1986 helped establish an institution to train
middle-level and high-level managerial staff of private and parapublic-sector enterprises in the six member states of the West
African Economic Community (CEAO) and other neighboring countries, as well. The borrower was Senegal, which passed
the proceeds of the credit on to the CEAO.
n. Includes one IBRD loan of $80 million, made in fiscal year 1956 to Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia) and Southern
Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). at the time of the Central African Federation and before independence, and one IBRD loan of
$7.7 million, made in 196$ to (Southern) Rhodesia and newly independent Zambia. Both loans were assigned in equal shares
to Zambia and (Southern) Rhodesia, but are now counted only once, against Zimbabwe. The loans are quaranteed by the
United Kingdom, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
o. Includes three IBRD loans, made in 1952, 1958, and 1960 and totaling $43.1 million, to (Southern) Rhodesia (now
Zimbabwe). The loans were guaranteed by the United Kingdom and have been repaid.
p. Represents IBRD loans and IDA credits made at a time when the authorities on Taiwan represented China in the World
Bank (prior to May 15, 1980).



182    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-7. Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1987-89
(millions of US dollars)
1987                    1988                   1989
Sector                IBRD    IDA     Total  IBRD     IDA    Total   IBRD    IDA     Total
Agriculture and Rural
Development         1,946.3  984.0  2,930.3  2,932.1 1,561.8  4,493.9  2,066.1 1,423.9  3,490.0
Development Finance
Companies           2,204.9   93.0  2.297.9  1,490.0  222.5  1,712.5  2,223.0  143.7  2,366.7
Education               173.5  266.3   439.8   654.9  209.1   864.0   441.6   449.1   890.7
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal   605.4    82.0   687.4   325.1   63.0   388.1   549.5    31.2   580.7
Power               2,857.0  159.9  3,016.9  1,908.0  98.9  2,006.9  2,858.5  424.4  3,282.9
Industry               411.4    7.0    418.4  2,062.7  161.9  2,224.6  1,858.0  124.5  1,982.5
Nonproject            1,790.0  647.1  2,437.1  1,020.0  667.0  1,687.0  2,692.0  726.5  3,418.5
Population, Health,
and Nutrition         33.3    20.8    54.1   109.0  195.9   304.9   399.5   223.5   623.0
Small-scale
Enterprises          405.5    16.0   421.5   493.0   20.0   513.0   585.0     -     585.0
Technical Assistance    15.0    88.9   103.9    15.2   80.5    95.7    41.0   134.3   175.3
Telecommunications     654.5   27.8    682.3    36.0     -     36.0    53.1   107.9   161.0
Transportation        1,145.8  600.1  1,745.9  2,117.2  525.3  2,642.5  1,137.7  693.1  1,830.8
Urban Development     1,234.6  234.5  1,469.1  1,108.5  607.8  1,716.3  959.0  229.5  1,188.5
Water Supply and
Sewerage             711.0   258.4   969.4   490.3   45.0   535.3   569.2   222.0   791.2
Total                14,188.2 3,485.8 17,674.0 14,762.0 4,458.7 19,220.7 16,433.2 4,933.6 21,366.8
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
Table 7-8. Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1987-89
(percentage)
1987                    1988                    1989
Sector                 IBRD    IDA     Total  IBRD     IDA    Total   IBRD     IDA    Total
Agriculture and Rural
Development           13.7   28.2    16.6    19.9    35.0    23.4    12.6    28.9    16.3
Development Finance
Companies             15.5    2.7    13.0    10.1     5.0     8.9    13.5     2.9    11.1
Education               1.2     7.6     2.5     4.4     4.7     4.5     2.7     9.1     4.2
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal    4.3     2.4     3.9     2.2     1.4     2.0     3.3     0.6     2.7
Power                20.1     4.6    17.1    12.9     2.2    10.4    17.4     8.6    15.4
Industry                2.9     0.2     2.4    14.0     3.6    11.6    11.3     2.5     9.3
Nonproject             12.6    18.6    13.8     6.9    15.0     8.8    16.4    14.7    16.0
Population, Health,
and Nutrition         0.2     0.6     0.3     0.7     4.4     1.6     2.4     4.5     2.9
Small-scale
Enterprises           2.9     0.5     2.4     3.3     0.4     2.7     3.6     0.0     2.7
Technical Assistance    0.1     2.6     0.6     0.1     1.8     0.5     0.2     2.7     0.8
Telecommunications      4.6     0.8     3.9     0.2     0.0     0.2     0.3     2.2     0.8
Transportation          8.1    17.2     9.9    14.3    11.8    13.7     6.9    14.0     8.6
Urban Development       8.7     6.7     8.3     7.5    13.6     8.9     5.8     4.7     5.6
Water Supply and
Sewerage              5.0     7.4     5.5     3.3     1.0     2.8     3.5     4.5     3.7
Total                  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.






183
Financial Statements of the
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Balance Sheets 184
Statements of Income 186
Statements of Accumulated Net Income-Unallocated 186
Statements of Changes in General Reserve 186
Statements of Cash Flows 187
Summary Statement of Loans 188
Summary Statements of Borrowings 192
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power 194
Notes to Financial Statements 198
Report of Independent Accountants 202



184    IBRD Financial Statements
Balance Sheets
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
1965'         1988
Assets
DUE FROM BANKS
Unrestricted currencies (including interest-bearing demand deposits $104,104-1989.
$160,057-1988) ....................................................      i    225.t96  $   284,318
Currencies subject to restrictions-Note A ............  ............. ........     7o6 ,61     381,932
790.41 7      666,250
INVESTMENTS-Note B
Obligations of governments and  their instrumentalities  ...............................  .   .39589).   10,423,804
Time deposits and other obligations of banks and financial institutions ..... .............. .   1003,, Sr  7,678,836
19 '.84 584  18,102,640
CASH COLLATERAL INVESTED-Note B .2 7531 43                                                      2,291,174
NONNEGOTIABLE, NONINTEREST-BEARING DEMAND OBLIGATIONS ON ACCOUNT OF
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL (subject to restrictions-Note A) .......... ..................  I48,.58   1,306,820
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Note A
Amounts due .... ............ ...........................................            ... .. 810,104
Amounts deferred ........ . ........................................       .                    333,645
I .359t.     1,143,749
RECEIVABLES-OTHER
Net receivable from currency swaps-Note D ................                          4 8 A       112,467
Receivable from investment securities sold ................. ...........1...      090 82t.    2,660,084
Accrued income on loans ............. .......... ................. ............  I92,         2,009,894
Accrued interest on investments ......tu......................................  ..  l6/t.2     165,195
3r49763       4,947,640
LOANS OUTSTANDING (see Summary Statement of Loans and Note C)
Total loans ...... ................... .......                 9........       12"f,418 21)iJ  127,963,846
Less loans approved but not yet effective .............................. .........  14 971 51)10  10,049,900
Less undisbursed balance of effective loans ............................ .........  35 004 .955  36,122,575
94 1.845    81,791,371
OTHER ASSETS
Land and buildings (less accumulated depreciation $34,907-1989, $32,341-1988) ........  23 618  270,277
Unamortized issuance costs of borrowings .5. 390                                               570,157
Miscellaneous ......                                       ...                       35:       317,135
1_   3 I '4 -,3)  1,157,569
110'3 158 SS,  $111,407,213



Balance Sheets      185
a _ __        1988
Liabilities, Capital and Reserves
BORROWINGS (see Summary Statements of Borrowings)
Short-term  ........................................... .................             t       $ 4,663,146
Medium- and long-term ...                                                           . ! . .     79,750,621
84,413,767
PAYABLE FOR CASH COLLATERAL RECEIVED .....................     ....     .....                      2,291,174
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Note A
Amounts due ............................................................              6;'541        49,161
Amounts deferred .........................................................           .43 Ei )      545,919
4ill de        595,080
OTHER LIABILIT ES
Accrued charges on borrowings . ...............................................    2 . .         2,512,556
Net payable for currency swaps-Note D ...................... .. ..............1                  1 ,920,830
Payable for investment securities purchased .............1                                       1,530,297
Due to International Development Association and Special Facility for Sub-Saharan
Atrica-Note G ....... .........................          ...............            IF. f       923,291
Accounts payable and other liabilities ............... ..............   ....   6_ j___ 6__463,637
4 .C     7,350,611
ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES-Note C ...................... .1......           o.)j)I'llI    500,000
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Capital stock (see Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power and
Note A)
Authorized capital (1,420,500 shares-1989 and 1988)
Subscribed capital (958,827 shares-1989, 757,953 shares-1988) .......1 f.r. ,  8 I I  '  91,435,660
Less uncalled portion of subscriptions .......... ...........................  ,-Iiu 145  83,726,464
,8 5 l ;5u   7,709,196
Payments on account of pending subscriptions (see Statement of Subscriptions to Capital
Stock  and  Voting  Power)  ............ ..........................        .                     18,274
Special reserve-Note E ........... ................. ........................       .... I         292,538
General reserve (see Statements of Changes in General Reserve)
Accumulated net income ........................ .....'.i......7... . ..                       7696,101
Cumulative translation adjustments ........                                     II 1 1`4       (463,758)
b4           7,232,343
Accumulated net income-unallocated (see Statements of Accumulated Net
Income-Unallocated) ................ .......... .........................                      1,004,230
I ..1 1.'8   $111,407,213
See Notes to Financial Statements.



186    IBRD Financial Statements
Statements of Income
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
Income                                                                              1,.*, )          1**
Income from loans:
Interest  . .. . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .;.. .
Commitment charges  ......7 ...  . ... .1 2                                       1   ,          ;  r,, t
Income from investments-Note B  ........6 .1                                                     1   X*2 rIj
Other income-Note F ........   ..........21                                                          I 
Total income  ........... ... .... . ...                                      ..x 722
Expenses
Borrowing expenses:
Interest on borrowings-NoteD  ...0 ........9                                                     :';  l
Amortization of issuance costs and other borrowirni, :                          1m5 -X6          li  r
Administrative expenses-Notes F and H  .. ....                                     E- ,52. - 
Provision for loan losses-Note C  ............                                      30,           IA  4
Other expenses .......................i?..                                          41 1              i
Total expenses     ...................                                        1   7           4'k  14'S
Operating  Income      ............ . ... ......                                     11  '124       11 IC.t
Contributions to special programs-Note F ......                                    60r
N et  Incom e  ... .. ......  .... ...... ......                                     1ii
Statements of Accumulated Net Income-
Unallocated
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
1 .'8 ....      1988
Accumulated net income-unallocated at beginning of fiscal year ....................  1 (4 'I      $1,112,930
Allocation to General Reserve-Note E .. .4...                                     I       X 0IJ I  (1,012,930)
Transfer to International Development Association-Note G  .. ...................-                   (100,000)
Net income  for  fiscal year  .1.............................. .  ....1  j .3         R.,         1,004,230
Accumulated net income-unallocated at end of fiscal year ............ ...      .   1  ,9          $1,004,230
Statements of Changes in General Reserve
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
1982             1988
Accumulated Net Income
Balance  at beginning  of fiscal year  ... ... ..1...................... .,           '. 101    $6,683,171
Allocation from Accumulated net income-unallocated .  .      .      ...          1 0(14 2i9      1,012,930
. 70(I331        7,696,101
Cumulative Translation Adjustments
Balance  at beginning  of fiscal year  ......................  ..... .. ..5.8.. .  146   , 6     P n (466,804)
Translation  adjustments for fiscal year  .............Lti....l 41l                                 3.046
I1. 14 F.S83)     (463,758)
Balance at End of Fiscal Year .....      .....  .......     ....      ....         ,   h 1 '      $7,232,343
See Notes to Financial Statements.



Statements of Cash Flows   187
Statements of Cash Flows
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
L:'3C I  lifj.-Ti.rc,'                                                   LI 4-: 13'   Li I'j1 i.1.
('3  j' 1 11. Il~II*  1  *r] -j ,-! |iITS-il:                               h  iSvl -,
hi j"' Itl Flljl ~1P~lIjI                                                   4r. 1 _- C.`.  W.t1  !'1 I
l,,j- ;,iii,'i,I 'i,'TKfl,II.il                                            ?67it:4,     1: .1 21:
.:. 1   Ii      T C:,  31T                                                   r'  * ',     '11. ,
-2  1   |I|tlIjSltt,lCT,,    1l  l1 ll                                     7 _1   . P 1 I 11
(   W,1 .:  ;.T  Irl l-,  ll-: ';  A 1l
-                                                            6%  s.3   i. -1. l I :
i 1i-i  IT, 1 ir , I r,,-  , jr.,1                                                       'Is  -rI
1.sr        r    Iii  - '   114 1i ri                                        S46     41  :  A
-rF pr,,-r;  '0  i-liiii,-'J i.iJ-c  i                                              1,':  t  4  .'r
1 -1   1       3r,  liilmiiij-h 'li  1                                    rI:ri'574   I
7 jh5. ,l,lI,
I     j. .d,-   1j ''Ti- '                                                    b;        ..  4
.1:  t-  I  ,I  wi - Ir - : -5 ri,                                                  4  1, i
Ic'l - 3'r   Jr|:.sF lt-  I '3  'Ti'-,.i,  ,.dii -: *'.t -                  :;4       1>.. 1 1
(:1 -  r     L'..   :c.;  ,, .I: :                                  I Yin6 s4q 1' PI
Eii-jr  'i  -:v..:i3I.:  ,I2  K j-T  :. c i -:ri  J,-,-  toJlj'~  'i           5   I':        *
H  iji5J i::.  '  '- in, *: r IF,9  I Jul.J  IT.                                            11
Q'1  j lJJl  i                                                                           Ii:I ir,r  :  Li'-'Ji iifK  ii iii 1   *:3- 1, .,  4g  1  'a iii
< ,i,   1  'r : i
* : .liW '-nI:,i '                                                              r    1,,l:,i 'i3i' i; - I,
1p . ' i     -'
:. g -  -I l:r'iil 3 ,,,                                             j   ; ,- 14-    4-t -
I, ji   I.I  In. I ,  1:j  IJ'l ,-) 1 I   I  OT ,  I  JI               4   r ,Ji        4
See Notes to Financial Statements.



188    IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Loans
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
June 30, 1989
Loans
approved but                            Percentage of
not yet    Undisbursed    Loans       total loans
Borrower or guarantor'                    Total loans   effective'   loansC      outstanding   outstanding
Algeria .                                $ 2,209,156   $ 640.000    $ 732,012    $ 837,144       1.07
Argentinad .................. ........     4,014,122     406,500     1,413,937    2,193.685      2.81
Australia' ...........................        8,735          -            -          8,735       0.01
Bahamas, The ....  ...................       33,845          -         19,127       14,718       0.02
Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica.
Trinidad and Tobago, and United Kingdome .  32,418         -            -         32,418       0.04
Bangladesh ..........................        59,780          -            -         59,780       0.08
Barbados ...........................         52,150          -         16,619       35,531       0.05
Belize ............................          26,916          -         15,301       11,615       0.01
Bolivia' ............................       195,567          -           118       195,449       0.25
Botswana ...........................        187,428          -         40,288      147,140       0.19
Brazil ............................       12,462,077    1,244,000    3,541.672    7,676,405      9.85
Cameroon  .... ................... .,      1,075,290     150,000      449,425      475,865       0.61
Chile ............................         1,984,347     150,000      361,706     1,472,641      1.89
China .....                                5,231,832     757,000     2,531,244    1,943,588      2.49
Colombia ...........................      4,835,617      230,000     1,079,921    3.525,696      4.52
Congo, People's Republic of the ...... .....  156,259        -         10,144      146.115       0.19
Costa Rica ..........................       489,344      100,000       25,804      363,540       0.47
Cote d'lvoire' ........................   1,722,949          -        203,745     1,519,204      1.95
C6te d'lvoire, Ghana, and Togog ...... .....  12.304         -            -         12,304       0.02
Cote d'lvoire and Senegal' ........ .......   5,083          -           982         4,101       0.01
Cyprus  . ...........................       124,904          -         95,929       28,975       0.04
Dominican Republic ........... ........     353,291       30,000      141,958      181,333       0.23
Ecuador ....................... ...         964,276       45.000      248,989      670,287       0.86
Egypt, Arab Republic of ........  ........  2,311,604    241,000      699,542     1,371,062      1.76
El Salvador  .........................      195,119          -         56,903      138,216       0.18
Ethiopia ............................        31,484          -            -         31,484       0.04
Fiji    ............................         84,161        8,100       14,230       61,831       0.08
Finland  . ...........................         198           -            -           198
Gabon ............................           87,786       30,000       30,000       27,786       0.04
Ghana ............................          111,083          -            -        111,083       0.14
Greece ............................          48,125          -            -         48,125       0.06
Guatemala  ..........................       467,085      160,500       60,703      245,882       0.32
Guinea ... .........................         37,136          -            -         37,136       0.05
Guyana  . ...........................        79,625          -            -         79,625       0.10
Honduras ..... .....................        561,662       25,000       49.556      487,106       0.62
Hungary ....... ....................       1,953,772     205,000      583,182     1,165,590      1.50
Iceland ...........................          10,698          -            -         10,698       0.01
India ............................        14,514,843    1,966,300    6,845,374    5,703,169      7.32
Indonesia ...........................     11,704,544    1.503,800    2,592,350    7,608,394      9.76
Iran, Islamic Republic of ........ ........  167,124         -            -        167,124       0,21
Iraq ............................            46,008          -            -         46.008       0,06
Ireland . ..........................         14,059          -            -         14,059       0.02
Jamaica ............................        717,887       15,000       76,276      626,611       0.80
Japan  . ......... .......... ........       30.614          -            -         30,614       0.04
Jordan ............................         691,114      109,000      204,985      377,129       0.48
Kenya, . ...........................        898,469          -         44,554      853,915       1.10
Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda' .............    3,338          -            -          3,338
Korea, Republic of ..............  ......  3,779,273     216,400      342,240     3,220,633      4.13
Lebanon  .........................           34,604          -            -         34,604       0.04
Liberia  ....................... ......     123,745          -          1,801      121,944       0.16



Statement of Loans     189
June 30. 1989
Loans
approved but                            Percentage of
not yet    Undisbursed     Loans      total oans
Borrower or guarantor3                    Total loans    effectiveb     oansc     outstanding   outstanding
Madagascar .... .                        $    26,786   $       -    $       -     $   26,786     $ 0.03
Malawi ............................           96.859          -           8.357       88,502        0.11
Malaysia .......................... .       1,600,045      71,500       707,906      820,639        1.05
Mauritania ......................... .        61,721          -             -         61,721        0.08
Mauritius .......................... .       201.269          -          32,563      168,706        0.22
Mexico ............................        11.286,855    1,945,000    2.512,806     6,829,049       8.76
Morocco ............................        3.692,908     414,000       823,352     2,455,556       3.15
Nicaragua ...........................        205,388          -             -        205,388        0.26
Nigeria ............................        4,531,834     903,200     1,032,190     2,596,444       3.33
Oman ............................            114,071          -          62,491       51,580        0.07
Pakistan ............................       2,778,587     400,000     1,215,970     1,162,617       1.49
Panama ............................          527,206          -          94,091      433,115        0.56
Papua New Guineaa ........... ........       266,424       19.600       112,564      134,260        0.17
Paraguay ...........................         332,899           -         56,955      275,944        0.35
Peru ........................     ....      1,360,930          -        360,604     1,000,326       1.28
Philippines ..........................      4,407,333     495,600       787,999     3,123,734       4.01
Portugal ............................        626,790       150,000       84,219      392,571        0.50
St. Vincent and the Grenadines . ...........   1,400        1,400           -            -             I
Senegal ............................          93,046           -             9        93,037        0.12
Seychelles  ..........................         6,378           -          2,237        4,141        0.01
Sierra Leone .........................         8,926          -             -          8,926        0.01
Singapore ...... ......... ..........         13,696           -            -         13,696        0.02
Spain ............................            17,702          -             -         17,702        0.02
Sri Lanka ...........................         93,094          -          17,232       75,862        0.10
Sudan  ............................           30,245          -                       30,245        0.04
Swaziland ...........................         53,488          -           1,217       52,271        0.07
Syrian Arab Republic  ...................    424,376          -          29,925      394,451        0.51
Tanzania' ............................       244,590          -             -        244,590        0.31
Thailand ............................       2,716,509                   469,927     2,246,582       2.88
Togo ............................              1,029          -             -          1,029           1
Trinidad and Tobago .   ..................    23,146          -             -         23,146        0.03
Tunisia  ............................       1,754,051      242,500      496,661     1,014,890       1.30
Turkey ............................         8,553,861      679,500    2,331.085     5,543,276       7.11
Uganda!            ............................  37,217       -             -         37,217        0.05
United Kingdoma .....  ................          22           -                          22
Uruguay ........................ ...         614.957      227,300       117,477      270,180        0.35
Venezuela ...........................        755,000       755,000                       -
Yugoslavia ..........................       3.117,256     318,000       450,818     2,348.438       3.01
Zaire ............................           125,057          -          87,808       37,249        0.05
Zambia' ............................         466,929           -          4,418      462,511        0.59
Zimbabwe' ..........................         623,338       116,300      191,075      315,963        0.41
Subtotal members** ......... .........  126.836.071   14,971,500   34,622,573   77,241,998
International Finance Corporation .  .........  1,076.786     -         382,282      694,504        0.89
Otherk .................... .                  5.343                  -     -          5,343
Total-June 30 19891 ¶'1 7.5                   t, ii 5   .t ti.1 "      114 .-.   i-I 'i1 c4       i   I
Total-June 30, 1988 .......... ........  $127,963,846  $10,049,900  $36.122,575   $81,791,371
Less than 0.005 percent.
" May differ from the sum of individual figures shown because of rounding.
(continued)



190       IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Loans (continued)
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
NOTES                                                                a member country and the IBRD There were no such undisbursed grant
participations at June 30, 1989 Of the undisbursed balance, the IBRD has
a. In some instances loans were made, with the guarantee of a member, in  entered  into irrevocable  commitments to  disburse  $1,105,377,000
terr tories wh ch at the time were included in that member's membership but  ($1 220,014,000-1988).
which subsequently became independent and members of the IBRD. In order
to avoid double counting, liabilities for these loans are shown under the  d. One loan with an outstandinc balance equivalent to $2,879,000
name of the original member (whose guarantee continues unaffected). These  ($4,491,000-1988) is shown under Bolivia (Guarantor) but is also
loans are shown below together with an indication of the member under  guaranteed by Argentina.
whose name they are listed.                                          e Loans made to the Caribbean Development Bank for the benetit of the
territories of the members listed (in the case of the United Kingdom, the
GUARANTORS                                      US$ thousands        territories are those of its Associated States and Dependencies in the
Borrowers                                      l.A       I           Caribbean region). The members will be severally liable as guarantors to the
AUSTRALIP                                                            extent of sub oans made in their territories.
Papua N- G     ,f ,                                          m     t One loan with an outstanding balance equivalent to $10,346,000
UNITED KlID .  i. 11                                                 ($13,228,000-1988) is shown under Cote d'lvoire (Guarantor) but is also
Zambia a:     JU.                                                  partially guaranteed by Burkina Faso
g Members are jointly and severatly uab e
Loans made for joint benefit of territories isted                   h Loan made to the West African Development Bank for the benefit of the
b. Loan agreements totaling $6,279,900,000 ($3,760,500,000-1988)    territories of the members listed. The members will be severally liable as
have been signed. but the loans do not become effective and disbursements  guarantors to the extent of subloans made in their territories.
thereunder do not start until the borrowers and guarantors, if any, take  i. Includes porions ot loans made to corporations of the East African
certain actions and furnish certain documents to the IBRD Loans totaling  Community.
$8,691,600,000 ($6,269,400,000-1988) have been approved by the lBRD
but the related agreements have not been signed.                    I. Represents portions of loans made to corporations of the East African
c. In 1988. these amounts inc uded grant participations of $1,158.000 The  Community.
grant participations represented participations on a grant basis taken in a  k. Represents soans made at a time when the authorities on Taiwan
number of loans under the terms of an aid cooperation agreement between  represented China in the IBRD (prioe to May 15, 1980).



Statement of Loans       191
Summary of Currencies Repayable on Loans Outstanding
*"':i,r .. . li.r...              1 4r           14'4   I r ;J  i.,,:                      4'
II  j-,   Vi-                 1  'r: i    I  .,  4    '.  a"-'  -                      1   ' '       1
TI  Ti)'' I 3~~~~~~~  4k :tg,            '"r:     Vf"   I ri                 '' i
,,IriI*i  I' l 3L.                         I 2I. J, lr  1 %4  a4  a: r.
-,            i        4I Al      m-
'- J ,,                         14,                4 ,,  1                                 i2,a _11l:11lll.1111*  9   -  I;
-     IJ r,- .   i -,   u       l, If,. 4 A 911       J. U!a!  'Ui         1              Jl lC . C.
I  riJi  IT  'flI '  I               t -I,       I  ,        I  I *'                         1  -
Il|l,-,l, r:,. 1 -  41 1 , jf"   i "1 5b       r    ,      q 
,i-lijil 1 *                        4644             4    '                             -, I.,T,j 
nr'ir  i,jI                        "  L         I'p                   1                        4
;',i) . 1I.  : .                                I       i.-n   i:. -   J                     41
.10,0 ir  dr  .ll                 ,-I  I'.,   1i ':I.    ' -:.', I,-   III ,,, '-            1a14
July 1. 1990| to June 34 1 391                            1   | j11                    l M r- I tl l      . ...
IJLy 1,19911 0 June 31' i'3'i                                                                         :t, .  *41,
Jaulyi,192y Junect3r i'1Lans
Per1iods                                               ,,l>1l-j                              1           1.'
J. uly  li 1, 198   to. June  3,1                       1 Y-11  :,  _14 ,1- 1--, 1  ',1,.E,1_
July 1,,19931  June 3  1 i                                                                            *x 44 jI,- i P
July 1, 1994 to June 3)1            1 i'                                                              i
' Ju 'ly 1, 1- :199               .,_ Jun   3.  ;,  '14 41                                              44 l1  :,  2 l  , :,
July 1, 1999 to June 3'l 11                                                                             41 
July 1, 1999 to June 31 1 .: 1.4l                                                                   f -     .
July 1, 2004 to June 3 1 1 11 ;' 4                                                                          4
Undeterminedly   ...                                                                                       I t   ' !
Total  ...i                                                                                           t.. . .
Includes undishursed balance of effective loans
Represents cancellations and other adjustmnents which have not been al ocated to specific maturities
See Notes to Financial Statements.



192        IBRD  Financial Statements
Summary Statements of Borrowings
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
Medium- and Long-term Borrowings and Currency Swaps
Medium- ond long-term barrow elgo               Cirrency swap agreennenrsa
Weighted
Weighted                                        average
average                 Payable                  coat
Pr ncipal outstanding5    coat I%)               (rece nab et            (rerurfl)%     Net currency obl[galions
a," 0n       dine 3d       June 31          ciu            Ii             June 30,1st~C              Juea 30,
aJ     1988         t989           to-n              I'             1088        1rie           19880
Auatratian dal aros                i.        $  407,029      t3.05       8 rif0(' '~-                        13 10)    t      !55    $    2 547
Austrian ach lings                 4V           476,387       7 84              -               ''                           a          383 717
Belgian francs                                  6 -n  00.065  0.66           Ž'-'                            (8.871       iOn 8"'         2,8092
Canadi an dellars  .             V            1,334,2t19    107             j. -.                 -r       11851           ,40,17
Danrsh kroner                                   220,743     10 17          ir                               10 t6Ot-                      2 185
Oeutscne murk.1,0185                                          34il                                 4         8655       i f' a 4 wh  168,44 070
~~jo 1.4,                   58901
European currency uitsr                        t .~'  1431,903  8860       'jj                    I ,        887          ji. 8         57,1
Focan marbaoa  .                   ~~~~~~~~208,044  0 82         i                                02123
French franca      .44'                         358,t90      9807            i:                    I ,      111 051       3C .41        t85.579
HeongKongedaI1ars                  . Io             -       1015             ri                             (10 17)
tral an lire                       L            334,210      it 81                                          (11t 30)         tt.         42,373
Japanese yea                                  238605,740      8 28            'Al'58.i r                                               4503
"I a~~~~~i    -         18~(6441
Kuwalt uInars                                   t77,988       759                                        -                    I         177,9688
Lobyan dinara   .            .      - -.        t02,410      128                 -                -            .-..   ~                 102,410
Luaembourg franca                               tlO.058       787             i rBi a'                        1818                       58,637
Netherlands gui derso.                         4,954 344      708                                            6 r' -- 880  I nc e       5,844,588
P                    18~~~~~~~~673)
New Zeaoand eollars                                 -        13 54           0.',                            13 54)
Nerwegiae kroner                    '4 v11       75 552     t8 33                ---                                          14 aj      75,552
Pounes sterling                                20830892      10861          ;1 I.."..                       (10 00)      I1,383,554
Spanion peseasra    . .   .            C '       82.288      11 386,~t'                                     (11 38)                       1,788
Swedion kroner                                   58,788      10.03          r11 4J al>                                         7 tt)       ,1
Swioa franca  .                  ~~~~~11 580,838  5 73           ai   4          r-'.             5,44         .1         18n'  t,076,821
drited Arab Errirates derhams                     8,177                          -                --                                      8,1 77
drited States dol ars             -r   i      1,5,8c          90              "rv           '                 .20        R'h14        12,211.186
-    (10824)'
Unitee Stoles dolilars Swissa
franc flanked                      -         130 506                                        -                                        130,506
Pr ne pal at face value                       78,881 051      7 72'
Less nel unamortized eiocounts
one premiLms     . . . .         ''r          50 430
Taota                            I" A Ir 34   79.750.621
a See Notes to F nuncual Stutements-Note D.
0. Includes zena coupon bonnowings which have been necorded at theit discounted values. The aggnegate face amnounts und discounted val088 ofthese
bonnowings (in US dollan equivolents) urn:
Aggregute                                Discountee
fuce amount                                  value
Currency                         fur,1: Li) 1159,    June 30, 1888        Jun?~ 51) 1 ,j.9.     hi - 30, 1988
Australiian dollars .1...  .         l .r.25O        $ 110,100,000           ,-~~ i  lul'00      i - 540,000
Canadian dolilars:-t                        "ii-                             o.5     rl
Deutsche monk                       it - .y. .ri3r,i  1,098,237,000          ..,; 11''w4i 1561,000
Swiss frnacs      ..2. . ..1 "i ii                      861,212,000         1' I dr, ji,i I         1i847,o00
United Slates dol a1s . . .          -~ i''Ž   ' 3r   2,081,009,000         tC:   J              4 1'.1871,000
c. Incudes Canadoan do Ions 200.000.000 (US eugivalent $187,518,000--19891 $164,325,000--1988) a) vaniable nlenest rote borownnwgs
d. Includes $853,550,000 )S1,200,000,100-1988) of variab e eute borrowings and $177,408,000 ($180093 000--1988) bonnowed trom the Interest Subsidy
Fune The Intenesf Subsidy Fond, which obtained its resounces teem volutenruy contrhbutions trom member governments, moo esatblisand to subsidize tbe
intoresl payments to the IBRD on selected loans mode to pooern developing countnies
e no ides inceme ondexnpense from nlerest note swaps The IBRD boas entered into interest rota swap agreemnents wibh nespect to notional principal umounts
aggregating $2,070,400,000 )5138,500.000--1988) and Swedish kronor 300,000,000 (US equivalent $45,059,000-1989. $47.973,000-1908).
fThe weighed average cost of medium- one long-tenin borrewings outstanding ot June 30, 1989, after adeustmenl ton smop activities, was 7 24%



Statements of Borrowings      193
Maturity Structure of Medium- and Long-term Borrowings Outstanding
Periods                                                                                           ,Ij{lr-  la S
July 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990  ...............                                                        - s4 .-59.
July 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991                                                                         9s3.................  9'1;2 CI_
July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1992  6...............                                                       J1 9U.
July 1, 1992 to June 30, 1993  ...............
July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994  t...............                                                     F4E. 'i4:
July 1,1994 to June 30, 1999  ...............
July 1,1999 to June 30, 2004  ...............
July  1, 2004  to June  30, 2009  ...............4 
July 1, 2009 to June 30, 2014 ...... .........                                                        3.I7
Thereafter ..............................ci t i U
Total ................................,, 15 4
Short-term Borrowings
ill-, l,Fi
I,,-,  *.1'
I,1   ,.t C  I W ,. 1.       8
Short-term Notes (US dollars)
-  r     j r I I 3 i  J I j  r,. j i I r.-i r .  JiiI                                   V  '   4 .
L- r::  hir 3iriii  1r   .  I   - rI pur ,                                 14 ) 3I. I.        :
:.r't ,                                                                  , .-  ,G       ,    ?         l'j
Central Bank Facility (US dollars)                                           2i9   0 o           4 1 (4   < It,
Continuously Offered Payment-Rights (Swiss francs)                             7F.9              -        ;F
Totl                                                                       [£. I64 .6Y     14It l4  Ii
See Notes to Financial Statements.



194      IBRD Financial Statements
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
June 30, 1989
Subscriptions                                Voting power
Percentage                                                Number    Percentage
of         Total      Amounts paid   Amounts subject     of         of
Members                           Shares     total      amounts     in (Note A)    to call (Note A)   votes      total
Afghanistan ...............        300       0.03     $   36,191     $  3,619        $  32,572         550       0.06
Algeria .5,192                               0.54        626,337       52,390          573,947        5,442      0.55
Antigua and Barbudaa .292                    0.03         35,225          445           34,780         542       0.05
Argentina .10,052                            1.05      1.212,623      103,803         1,108,820      10,302      1.03
Australia .21,610                            2.25      2,606,922      171,430         2,435,492      21,860      2.19
Austria .11,063                              1.15      1,334,585       80,728         1,253,857      11,313      1.14
Bahamas, The .601                            0.06         72,502        3,731           68,771         851       0.09
Bahrain .619                                 0.06         74,673        3,910           70.763         869       0.09
Bangladesh .2,724                            0.28       328,610        26,234          302,376        2,974      0.30
Barbados .948                                0.10        114,362        4,496          109,866        1,198      0.12
Belgium .20,986                              2.19      2,531,646      186,841         2,344,805      21,236      2.13
Belize .329                                  0.03         39,689          837           38,852         579       0.06
Benin .487                                   0.05        58,749         2,514           56,235         737       0.07
Bhutan .269                                  0.03        32,451           202           32,249         519       0.05
Bolivia .1,002                               0.10        120,876        7,968          112,908        1,252      0.13
Botswana .615                                0.06         74,191        1,987           72,204         865       0.09
Brazil .12,083                               1.26      1,457,633      125,293         1,332,340      12,333      1.24
Burkina Faso .487                            0.05         58,749        2,514           56,235         737       0.07
Burundi .402                                 0.04         48,495        1,831           46,664         652       0.07
Cameroon .857                                0.09        103,384        6,575           96,809        1,107      0.11
Canada .27,454                               2.86      3,311,913      272,176        3,039,737       27,704      2.78
Cape Verde .285                              0.03         34,381          371           34,010         535       0.05
Central African Republic'          484       0.05         58,387        2,482           55.905         734       0.07
Chad .484                                    0.05         58,387        2,482           55,905         734       0.07
Chile .6,931                                 0.72       836,121        49,568          786,553        7,181      0.72
China .25,142                                2.62      3,033,005      263,907         2,769,098      25,392      2.55
Colombia .3,565                              0.37       430,064        35,115          394,949        3,815      0.38
Comoros .282                                 0.03         34,019          339           33,680         532       0.05
Congo, People's Republic of the    520       0.05        62,730         2,868           59,862         770       0.08
Costa Rica2 ...           .        131       0.01         15,803        1,580           14,223         381       0.04
Cote d'lvoire .1,412                         0.15        170,337       12,425          157,912        1,662      0.17
Cyprus .820                                  0.09         98,921        6,044           92,877        1,070      0.11
Denmark .10,251                              1.07      1,236,629       74,610         1,162,019      10,501      1.05
Djibouti .314                                0.03        37,879           679           37,200         564       0.06
Dominica .283                                0.03         34,140          350           33,790         533       0.05
Dominican Republic .1.174                    0.12        141,625        9,793          131,832        1,424      0.14
Ecuador .1,555                               0.16        187,587       13,822          173,765        1,805      0.18
Egypt, Arab Republic of a         3,989      0.42       481,213        39,627          441,586        4,239      0.43
El Salvador .141                             0.01         17,010        1.701           15,309         391       0.04
Equatorial Guinea .401                       0.04        48,375         1,601           46,774         651       0.07



Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power     195
June 30, 1989
Subscriptions                         Voting power
Percentage                                       Number   Percentage
of        Total    Amounts paid  Amounts subject  of      of
Members                          Shares   total     amounts   in (Note A)  to call (Note A)  votes  total
Ethiopia ...................      549     0.06   $    66.229   $ 3,170      $   63,059      799     0.08
Fiji ....................         554     0.06       66,832       3,222         63,610      804     0.08
Finland ....................     5,555    0.58      670,127      50,995        619,132    5,805     0.58
France ....................     47,227    4.93     5,697,229    440,129      5,257,100   47,477     4.76
Gabon ....................        554      0.06       66,832      3,556         63,276      804     0.08
Gambia, The .................     305     0.03       36,794        660          36,134      555     0.06
Germany, Federal Republic of  .....  72,399  7.55  8.733,853    542,921      8,190,932   72,649     7.29
Ghanaa .....................      856      0.09      103,264     10,326         92,938    1,106     0.11
Greece ....................       945      0.10      114,000     11,400        102,600    1,195     0.12
Grenada' ,.... ...............    298     0.03        35,949       510          35,439      548     0.05
Guatemala ..................     1,123    0.12       135,473      9,251        126,222    1,373     0.14
Guinea ....................       725     0.08       87,460       5,037         82,423      975     0.10
Guinea-Bissau ................    303      0.03      36.552         562         35,990      553     0.06
Guyanaa ....................      594      0.06       71,657      3,651         68,006      844     0.08
Haiti ....................        599      0.06       72,260      3,697         68,563      849     0.09
Honduras ...........I........     360      0.04      43,429       1,324         42,105      610     0.06
Hungary ....................     8.050    0.84      971,112      58,031        913,081    8,300     0.83
Iceland ....................     1,258    0.13       151,759      6,832        144,927    1,508     0.15
India ....................      25,140    2.62     3,032,764    262,598      2,770,166   25,390     2.55
Indonesiaa ....................  9,722     1.01    1,172,813     91,243       1,081,570   9,972     1.00
Iran, Islamic Republic of .........  13,293  1.39  1,603,601    138,221      1,465,380   13,543     1.36
Iraq ....................        2,808    0.29      338,743      27,093        311,650    3,058     0.31
Ireland ....................     5,271    0.55      635,867      37,077        598,790    5.521     0.55
Israel ....................      2,666    0.28      321,613      25,664        295,949    2,916     0.29
Italy ....................      25,140    2.62     3,032,764    263,705       2,769,059  25,390     2.55
Jamaica ....................     1,447    0.15       174,559     12,692        161,867    1,697     0.17
Japan ....................      93,770     9.78   11,311,944    703,452      10,608,492  94,020     9.43
Jordan ....................       779     0.08        93,975      5,607         88,368    1,029     0.10
Kampuchea, Democratic .........   214     0.02       25,816       2,582         23,234      464     0.05
Kenya ....................       2,461    0.26      296,883      15,900        280,983    2.711     0.27
Kiribati ....................     261     0.03       31,486         133         31,353     511      0.05
Korea, Republic of .............  5,260   0.55       634,540     53,018        581,522    5,510     0.55
Kuwait ....................      7,453    0.78       899,093     76.341        822,752    7,703     0.77
Lao People's Democratic Republic ..  100  0.01        12,064      1,206         10,858      350     0.04
Lebanon   ........  .........     340     0.04        41,016      1,086         39,930      590     0.06
Lesotho ....................      372     0.04       44,876       1,294         43,582     622      0.06
Liberia ....................      463     0,05       55,854       2,570         53,284      713     0.07
Libya ....................       4,400    0.46      530,794      44,508        486,286    4,650     0.47
Luxembourg ..................    1,072    0.11       129,321      7,700        121,621    1,322     0.13
Madagascar ..................     798     0.08        96,267      5.812         90,455    1,048     0.11
(continued)



196    IBRD Financial Statements
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power (confinuec3
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
June 30, 19B9
Subscriptions                           Voting power
Percentage                                         Number   Percentage
ot        Total    Amounts paid  Amounts subject  oa        ot
Members                       Shares    total     amounts   in (Note A)   to call (Note A)  votes   total
Malawi ..................      614      0.06   $   74,070    $ 3,860       $  70,210       864      0.09
Malaysiaa .................   4,627     0.48      558,178      46,401        511,777      4,877     0.49
Maldives .................     263      0.03       31,727        137          31,590       513      0.05
Malia ..................       652      0.07       78,654       4,263         74,391       902      0.09
Malta ..................       603      0.06       72.743       3,741         69,002       853      0.09
Mauritaniaa ...............    505      0.05       60,921       2,704         58,217       755      0.08
Mauritius .................    697      0.07       84,083       4,739         79,344       947      0.10
Mexico ..................    10,553     1.10    1,273,061     109,120       1,163,941    10,803     1.08
Morocco .................     2,791     0.29      336,692      26,939        309,753      3,041     0.31
Mozambique ..............      522      0.05       62,971       3,281         59,690       772      0.08
Myanmara ................     1,575     0.16      190,000      12,788        177,212      1.825     0.18
Nepal ..................       543      0.06       65,505       3,106         62.399       793      0.08
Netherlands ...............  19,925     2.08     2,403,652    208,421       2,195,231    20,175     2.02
New Zealand ..............    4,696     0.49      566,502      42,708        523.794      4,946     0.50
Nicaragua ................     341      0.04       41,137       1,098         40.039       591      0.06
Nigera ..................      478      0.05       57,664       2,419         55,245       728      0.07
Nigeria ..................    7,102     0.74      856,750      72,610        784,140      7,352     0.74
Norwaya ..................    6,737     0.70      812.718      60,833        751,885      6,987     0.70
Oman ..................        876      0.09      105,676       6,626         99,050      1,126     0.11
Pakistana .................   5,241     0.55      632,248      52,926        579.322      5,491     0.55
Panama ..................      216      0.02       26,057       2,606         23.451       466      0.05
Papua New Guinea ..........    726      0.08       87,581       5,049         82,532       976      0.10
Paraguay .... - .....  ...     690      0.07       83,238       4,661         78,577       940      0.09
Peru ...................      2.992     0.31      360,940      29,050        331,890      3,242     0.33
Philippines ................  3,841     0.40      463,359      38,029        425,330      4,091     0.41
Poland ..................     6,122     0.64      738,527      62,275        676.252      6,372     0.64
Portugal ..................   5,460     0.57      658,667      38,503        620,164      5,710     0.57
Qatar ..................      1,096     0.11      132,216       8,965        123,251      1,346     0.14
Romania .................     2,251     0.23      271,549      24,139        247,410      2,501     0.25
Rwanda ..................      587      0.06       70,813       3,574         67,239       837      0.08
St. Kitts and Nevis ..........  275     0.03       33,175        302          32,873       525      0.05
St. Lucia .................    552      0.06       66.591       1.512         65,079       802      0.08
St. Vincent and the Grenadines .  278   0.03       33,537        297          33,240       528      0.05
Sao Tome and Principe .......  278      0.03       33,537        297          33.240       528      0.05
Saudi Arabia ..............  25,140     2.62     3,032,764    263,830       2,768,934    25,390     2.55
Senegala ..................   1,163     0.12      140,299       9,681        130.618      1,413     0.14
Seychelles ................    263      0.03       31,727        154          31,573       513      0.05
Sierra Leone ..............    403      0.04       48,616       1,841         46,775        653     0.07
Singapore ................     320      0.03       38,603       3,860         34,743       570      0.06
Solomon Islands ...........    288      0.03       34,743        403          34,340       538      0.05



Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power         197
June 30. 1989
Subscriptions                             Voting power
Percentage                                            Number   Percentage
of                    Amounts paid  Amounts subject  of        of
Members                            Shares     totau    Total amounts  in (Note A)  to call (Note A)  votes   total
Somalia ................. I ...      552       0.06   $    66,591    $    3,322   $     63,269      802       0.08
South Africa ..................     7,555      0.79       911,397        77,443        833.954     7,805      0.78
Spaina ...................... 10,529           1.10      1,270.166      108,828       1,161,338   10,779      1.08
Sri Lanka ....................     2,142       0.22       258,400        20,065        238,335     2,392      0.24
Sudan ...................     .      850       0.09       102,540         7,238         95,302     1,100      0.11
Suriname ....................        412       0.04        49,702         1,954         47,748      662       0.07
Swaziland  ...................       440       0.05        53,079         2,015         51,064      690       0.07
Sweden .....................      14,974       1.56      1,806,388      110,202       1,696,186   15,224      1.53
Syrian Arab Republic ....... ....   1,236      0.13        149,105       10.458        138,647     1,486      0.15
Tanzania' ....................       727       0.08         87,702        7.942         79,760      977       0.10
Thailand  ....................      3,563      0.37       429,823        35,114        394.709     3,813      0.38
Togo ....................            620       0.06         74,794        3,924         70,870      870       0.09
Tonga ......................         277       0.03        33,416          287          33,129      527       0.05
Trinidad and Tobago ....... .....   1,495      0.16        180,349       13,406        166,943     1,745      0.18
Tunisia ....................         719       0.07         86,737        5,658         81,079      969       0.10
Turkey ......................       7,379      0.77       890,166        52,947        837,219     7,629      0.77
Uganda .....................         617       0.06        74,432         4,376         70,056      867       0.09
United Arab Emirates ........ ...  2,385       0.25       287,714        22,643        265,071     2,635      0.26
United Kingdom .........  ......  69,397       7.24      8,371,707     539.526        7,832,181  69,647       6.99
United States ................. 162,523       16.95     19,605,962    1,627,623      17,978,339  162,773     16.33
Uruguay .....................      1,578       0.16       190,362        14,084        176,278     1,828      0.18
Vanuatua ....................        329       0.03         39,689         838          38,851      579       0.06
Venezuela ...................      11,427      1.19      1,378,496      118,452       1,260,044   11,677      1.17
Viet Nam ....................        543       0.06         65,505        6,550         58,955      793       0.08
Western Samoa .........    ......    298       0.03         35,949         510          35,439      548       0.05
Yemen Arab Republic .......  ....    573       0.06         69,124        3,420         65,704      823       0.08
Yemen, People's Democratic
Republic of ..........  ......     918      0.10        110,743        7,084         103,659    1,168       0.12
Yugoslavia ...................     4,381       0.46       528,502        46.463        482,039     4,631      0.46
Zaire' ......................       2,643      0.28       318,838        25.379        293,459     2,893      0.29
Zambiaa .....................       1,577      0.16        190,241       15,556        174,685     1,827      0.18
Zimbabwe ...................        1,866      0.19       225.105        17,136        207,969     2,116      0.21
Toi;fl-1ijrp 30O l4Iq                 --., 7  110111ut11 r I  1 h U4 Lt:        i   rti c:r).   4%          t rl
Total-June 30, 1988 .......  .... 757,953             $ 91,435,660   $7,709,196   $ 83,726,464   795,703
a. Amounts aggregating the equivalent of $60,097,400 have been received from members on account of increases in subscriptions which are in process of
completion: Antigua and Barbuda $57,000, Cameroon $2,000, Central African Republic $1,131,000, Costa Rica $532,0C0, Egypt, Arab Republic of $9,550,000,
Ghana $47,000, Grenada $759,000, Guyana $56,0D, Indonesia $2,000. Malaysia $10883000. Mali $400, Mauritania $32,000, Myanmar $2,000, Niger
$167,000, Norway $1,176,000, Pakistan $11,232,000, Senegal $104,000, Spain $24,131,000, Tanzania $107,000, Vanuatu $93,000, Zaire $15,000, Zambia
$1 9,000
* May differ from sum of individual figures shown because of rounding.
See Notes to Financial Statements.



198       IBRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Summary of Significant Accounting                                    the IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan
and Related Policies                                                 are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines
that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future Interest
Translation of Currencies                                            and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the
extent that payments have actually been received by the IBRD. The IBRD
The IBRD's principal financial statements are expressed in terms of US  begins to make provisions for losses on loans made to or guaranteed by a
dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the IBRD's financial position  member of the IBRD when the loans are p aced in nonaccrual status. The
and the results of its operations for the conven ence of its members and  Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses is periodically adjusted based on a
other interested parties.                                            review of the prevailing circumstances. Any such provisions are recorded as
a reduction of income and will be used to meet actual osses on such loans.
The IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in  Should such losses occur in amounts in excess of accumulated provisions
the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland. The IBRD's resources  tand of the amount of the Special Reserve), the excess would be included
are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnigs n those  in the determination of net income
various currencies. The IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at
minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment The IBRD
matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency with assets in the  Investments
same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by
ho ding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in  Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses
which they are borrowed. The currencies of borrowed funds include funds  on sales of investments, measured by the difference between proceeds of
which have been swapped into other currencies In addition, the IBRD  sales and cost (on a last-in, first-out basis), are recorded as an element of
periodically undertakes currency conversions to match the currencies  income from investments. From time to time, the IBRD enters into foiward
underlying its reserves with those of the outstanding loans. With respect to  contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities, these transac-
its other resources, the IBRD does not convert one currency into another  tions are recorded at the time of settlement. Financial futures and options are
except for small amounts required to meet certain obligations and    valued at market, with both rea zed and unrealized gains and  osses
operational needs.                                                   inc uded in income from investments
Assets and iabilities are translated at market rates of exchange at the end  Due to the nature of the investments held by the IBRD and its policies
of the period. Income and expenses are translated at the market rate at the  governing the level and use of such investments, the IBRD classifies the
dates on which they are recognized or an average of the market rates of  investment portfolio as an element of liquidity in the Statements of Cash
exchange in effect during each month. Translation adjustments, with the  Flows.
exception of those re ating to capital subscriptions described in Note A. are
charged or credited to the General Reserve.                          Disposition of Income and General Reserve
Valuation of Capital Stock                                           The IBRD has not declared or paid any dividends to its members.
Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the accumulated net income has
In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the IBRD is expressed in  been allocated to the Genera Reserve.
terms of "US dol ars of the weight and tineness in effect on July 1, 1944"  From net income of fiscal years 1994 to 1987, the IBRD transferred to the
(1944 do lars). Fo lowing the aboition of gold as a common denominator  International Deve opment Association the portion of each year's income
of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the US aw  that was not needed for a location to reserves or otherwise required to be
defining the par value of the US dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing  retained in the IBRD's business and accordingly could have been prudently
basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or intu any other  distributed as dividends. In October 1985, the IBRD made a similar transfer
currency disappeared On October 14, 1986, the Executive Directors of the  to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa which is administered by the
IBRD decided, with effect starting on June 30, 1987 and until such time as  International Development Association. These transfers were recorded as a
the relevant provisions of the Artcles of Agreement are amended, to interpret  charge to Accumulated Net Income-Unallocated. No such transfer was
the words "US dollars of the weight and hneness in effect on July 1, 1944"  made from net income for the fisca year ended June 30, 1988.
in Article II, Secfion 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD to mean
the Special Drawirg Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary
Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of US dollars immediately before the  Reclassifications
introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such
value being equal to $1 20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDRt.            Certain recassifications of prior year information have been made to
conform with the current year's presentation.
Loans
Note A-Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies,
All of the IBRD's loans are made to. or guaranteed by, members with the  and Maintenance of Value
exception of loans to the International Finance Corporation. The prncipal
amounts of loans are repayab e in the currencies lent. For loans negotiated  Capital Stock: At June 30, 1989, the IBRD's capital comprised
since July 1980 (and for pontions of certain earlier loans), the repayment  1,420,500 (1,420,500-1988) authorized shares, of which 958,827
obligations of borrowers in various currencies are determined on the basis  (757,953-1988) shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par value
of a currency pooling system, which is designed to equa ize exchange-rate  of 100,000 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR Of the
risks among borrowers Interest on loans is accrued in the currencies lent  subscribed capital, $8,591,850,000 '$7,709,196,000-1988) has been paid
Incemetaldirct ost asocitedwit orgnaingloas o  enensd ~ in, and the remaining $101,078,245,000 f$83,726,464,000-1988) is
incurred as such amounts asciate nsitdeh mriginating loans are expensed as  subect to cell only when required to meet the obligations of the IBRD
created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to $92,534,476,000
The IBRD does not reschedule interestor principal payments on its loans or  ($73,148,528,000-1988) the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles
participate in debt rescheduling agreements It is tMe policy of the IBRD to  of Agreement and as to $14,541,769,000 ($10,577,936,000-1988) by
place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a momber of  resolutions of the Board of Governors.



Notes to Financial Statements             199
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid in  At June330, 1989, the noans made to or guaranteed by certain member
to  the  IBRD   is  divided  into  two  paorts  (1)  $859,185,000    countries  with  an  aggregate  principal  balance  outstanding  of
($770,920,000-1988) initial y paid in gold or US dollars and (2)     $3,193,392,000  ($2,924,190,000-1988),  of  which  $626 092,000
$7,732,665,000 ($6,938,276,000-1988) paid in cash or non-interest-   ($378,851,000-1988) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status If these
bearing demand obligations denominated either in the currencies of the  oans had not been in nonaccrual status, income from loans for the fiscal
respective members or in US dollars. Ot this second portion, an amount of  year  ended  June 30,  1989  would  have  been  $262,670,000
$513,570,000 ($152,989,000-1988) was subsequenty repurchased by      ($320,744,000-1988) higher. A summary ot borrowers in nonaccrua
members with US dollars The amounts mentioned in (1) above which are  status follows:
paid in gold or US dollars and the amounts subsequent y repurchased with
US dollars are freely usable by the IBRD in any of its operations. The                             IS$ thousands
remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members or in US dollar                            June 30 1989
denominated notes, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by the
lBRD in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective                                     Income
members The equivalent of $4,362,213,000 ($4,456,793,000-1988) has                 Principal   Principal     not       Nonaccrual
been used for lending purposes, with such consent.                   Borrower    outstanding    overdue    accrued        since
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Setion 9of the Articles of Agreement  Guyana ... $  79,625   S 18.342    $ 5,938    December 1986
provides for maintenance of value, as of the time of subscription, of such  Honduras .  487,106  26.641      42.215   Apr. 1989
restricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make additional payments  Liberia .  121,944  30.440      10.447   June 1987
to the IBRD in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the  Nicaraga  205,300  05 526     17,522   December 1984
foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the IBRD.
depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) the IBRD to  Panama  .  433,115   7i.598      34,958   May 1988
reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is  Peru . . .  1,000.326  258,898      82.715   August 1987
increased.                                                           Sierra Leone     8,926       2.335        453    August 1987
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance of value amounts  Syrian Arab
are determined by measuring the foreign exchange vaue of a member's     Republic    394,451      79,893      31,193   February 1987
currency against the standard of value ot IBRD capital based on the 1974  Zambia . . .  462,511  70.417      37.229   August 1987
SDR. Members are required to make payments to the IBRD if their currencies        $3,193,392   $626,092    $262,670
depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the                      -           -
Executive Directors decided to adopt a policy of reimbursng members
whose currencies appreciate signiticantly in terms of the standard of value.  An analysis at the changes to the accemulated provision for losses on loans
made to or gearaoteed by all member countries in nonnaccrual states appears
With respect to restricted currencies out on loan, maintenance of value  below:
obligations become effective only as such currencies are recovered by the
IBRD. The maintenance of value amounts relating to restricted currencies out                                   US$ thousands
on loan are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency
Holdings-Amounts Deferred                                                                                        June 30
Note B-Investments and Cash Collateral                               Balance, beginninr    * ,' !1 c''K                  t . a
Invested                                                             Provision for loan I  -                  hf          4.1 4.
Translation adjustr-' I lt                                I
The market value of investment securities and invested cash collateral  Baance end at fif:
received on loaned securities, including investments not traded in the  B e     o_,n__
market which   were  valued  at their  cost  of $11,899,823,000
($9,698,707,000-1988),  was  $22,175,789,000  ($21,223,549,000-      Cofinancing and Guarantees: The IBRD has entered ioto agree-
1988), compared with a cost or amortized cost of $22,138,427,000     ments for loansesyndicated by other financial institutions either by a direct
($21,175,264,000-1988). Obligations of the United States Government  participation in, or a partia guarantee of, loans for the benefit of member
and its instrumentalities having a cost or amortized cost of $292,538,000  countries. The IBRD's direct participations in syndicated loans are included
($292,538,000-1988)   and   a   market  value  ot  $302,211,000      in weported loan balances. Guarantees of $932,863,000 as ot June 30, 1989
($292,891,000-1988), set aside in respect of the Spec al Reserve, as  ($933,682,000-1988) are not included in reponed oar balances. None of
described in Note E, are included under this heading.               these guarantees were subiect to cail at June 30, 1989.
Income from investments includes a net loss of $95,781,000 (net gain of  The IBRD has partially guaranteed the timely payment of interest amounts on
$135,272,000-1988) resulting from sales of investments The annualized  certain oans that have been sold At June 30 1989 these guarantees,
rate of return on the average investments held during the fiscal year ended  approximating $15,241,000 ($17,958,000_1988), were subject to call.
June 30, 1989, including net gains/!osses from sales of investments was  Statutory Lending Limit: Under the Articles, the total amount
8.20% (8.51%-1988).                                                  outstand ng of guarantees, participations in loans, and direct loans made by
the IBRD may not be increased to an amount exceeding 100% of the sum
Note C-Loans, Cofinancing, and Guarantees                            at subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus. On February 17, 1987, the
BRD's Execu,tive Directors issued guidelines pursuant to which oill
Loans: At June 30, 1989, principal installments of $3,340,000 and    guarantees issued by the 18RD will be counted towards this limit at the time
interest and other charges of $3,745,000 payable to the IBRD on loans other  they first become ca lable, irrespective of the likelihood of an actual call. As
than those referred to in the following paragraph were overdue by more than  ot June 30, 1989, the tota amount of callable guarantees and disbursed and
three months. The aggregate principal amount outstanding on these oans  outstanding participations in loans and direct loans was approximately
was $80,319,000. The aggregate principal amount outstanding on a I loans  $77,957,086,000 or 62% (810%-1988) of the sum of subscribed capita,
to any borrowers, other than those referred to in the following paragraph,  reserves, and surplus.
with any one loan overdue by more than three months was $172 820,000                                                    (continued)



200        IBRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Note D-Borrowings and Swaps                                             Note F-Income and Expenses
The IBRD has entered into currency swaps in which proceeds of a borrowing  Other income includes gains of $7,353,000 ($5,128,000-1988), resulting
are converted into a different currency and, simultaneously, a forward  from repurchases of obligations of the lBRD prior to maturity, and net gains
exchange agreement is executed providing for a schedule of future       from  oan soa o oft$6,494.000 ($16,659,000-1988).
exchanges of the two currencies in order to recover the currency converted.  Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of $259,000,000
The effect of a currency swap is to transform the cost of the orignal   ($263,400,0001 1988) charged to the International Development Associa-
borrowing to a cost which reflects the market rate of the currency obtained   tion and of the service and support fees of $3,501,000 ($3,390,000 1988)
in the conversion. The IBRD also underakes interest rate swaps, which   charged to the International Finance Corporation and $415,000 to the
transform a fixed-rate payment obligation in a paricular currency into a  Multilateral Investient Guarantee Agency Contributions to special pro-
floating-rate obligat on in that currency and vice versa. The average cost of  grams represent grants for agricultural research, the control of onchocer-
borrowings outstanding, inclding short-term borrowings, during the fiscal  cgasis, andother developmentalgactuvities
year ended June 30, 1000 was 7 38% (7.47%-1988), reflecting a
reduction of cost of $305.462,000 ($250,991,000-1988) as a result of    In May 1987, the IBRD announced a reorganization to improve its efficiency
swaps    Net  receivable  from  currency  swaps  of   $274,828,000      and effectiveness. The direct costs of the reorganization consisted of the
($112,467,000-1988) and     net payable from   currency  swaps  of      costs of staff separation, training of staff for improving their skills, office
$1,256,811,000 f$1,920,830,000 -1988). resulting primarily from  ex-    moves, and certain modifications to the IBRD's computer-based information
change rate movements occurring subsequent to the dates of the swaps, are  and data systems. The original cost estimate was included in Administrative
shown under the headings Receivables-Other and Other Liabi ities,       Expenses in the Statement of Incorne for the fiscal year ended June 30,
respectively                                                            1987. In September 1987 the cost estimate was revised and increased by
$48,300,000. The porton of the ncrease which relates to the IBRD,
Note E-Reserves and Net Income                                          $35,900,000, is included in Administrative Expenses in the accompanying
Statement of Income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988. The balance
In August 1988. the IBRD allocated the entire $1,004,230,000 net income  has been charged to the International Development Association.
earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988 to the General Reserve. In
June 1989, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of all but   Note G-Transfers to the International
$100,000,000 of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30,  Development Association and to the Special
1989 to the General Reserve, effective Ju y 1989. The resulting allocation to  Fb
the General Reserve amounted to $993,887,000                            Facility for Sub-Saharan Afnca
The Special Reserve cons sts of loan commissions set aside pursuant to  The IBRD has authorized transfers by way of grants to the International
Anicle IV, Section 6, of the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in  Development Association totaling $2,510,706,000 ($2,567,371,000-1988)
liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting  from net income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30,
liabilities of the IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of  1987. Of these transfers, $716,626,000 remained payable at June 30, 1989
defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by the IBRD The  ($773,291,000- 1988)
Special Reserve assets comprse obligations of the United States Govern-  During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1986 the IBRD authorized a transfer
ment and its instrumentalities and are included under the heading       by way of a grant to the Specia  Faci ity for Sub-Saharan Africa of
Investments. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was  $150,000,000 from net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1985.
discontinued, in 1964, with respect to subsequent loans and no further  These funds were paid to the Specia Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa in the
additions are being made to it.                                         fiscal year ended June 30, 1989.



Notes to Financial Statements              201
Note H-Staff Retirement Plan                                            The portion of this cost that relates to the IBRD, $21,496,000, is included
in Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1989. The
The IBRD has a defined benefit retirement plan covering substantia ly all of  balance has been charged to the International Development Association.
its staff. The Plan also covers the staff of the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency      The following table sets forth the Plans funded status at June 30, 1989:
(MIGA). Under the Plan, benefits are based on years of service and average
compensation, with the staff contributing a tixed percentage of pensionable  Actuarial present value of benefit ob igations
remuneration, and the IBRD contributing the remainder of the actuarially  Accumulated benefit obligation
determined cost of future Plan benefits. The IBRD uses the aggregate         Vested .. . ...       ............. . $(2,218,260,000)
method for determining its contribution to the Plan. The amount of that      Nonveste .(114,127,000)
contribution approximates the net periodic pension cost as detailed below.
All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income held tor the   Subtotal ......... . ........ ..... (2,332,387,000)
purposes of the Plan are held by the IBRD separately from the other assets  Effect of projected compensation evels  .   . . .  (769,631,000)
and incomeof the IBRD, IFC, and MIGA and can be used only for the benefit    Projected benefit obligation.. . (3,102,018,000)
of the participants in the Plan and their beneticiaries, untl a I liabilities to  Plan assets at fair value.               3,135,976,000
them have been paid or provided for. Plan assets consist primari y of equity
and fixed income securities, with smaller holdings of cash, real estate, and  Plan assets in excess of projected benefit ob igation .  33,958,000
other investments.                                                      Remaining unrecognized net asset existing at date ot
Net periodic pensionr cost for the liscal year ended June 30, 1989 consisted  initial app ication .(181.842,000)
of the tollowing components:                                            Unrecognized net gain .     .. . ..... .. ....      147,884,000
Prepaid pension cost .   ..     . . . .          $            0
Service cost-benefits earned during the period . . .  $ 97,278,000
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation . ....  .  185,089,000    The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the actuarial
Actual return on plan assets .      ..........       (424,684,000)      present value of the projected benefit obligation was 7.562%. The effect of
Net amortization and deferral .   . . ..... .. ..     175,854,000       projected compensation levels was calcuated based on a scale that provides
Net periodic pension cost .......   .  . ..   ....  $ 33,537,000       for a decreasing rate of salary increase depending on age, beginning with
13% at age 20 and decreasing to 7.6% at age 64. The expected long-term
rate oa return on assets was 10%



202    IBRD Financial Statements
Report of Independent Accountants
1801 K Street, N.W.           Telephone 202 833 7932
Washington, DC 20006
Price Jjiiterhouse                                                              0
July 26, 1989
President and Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 184 through 201 of this Report present fairly, in
all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development at June 30, 1989 and 1988, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States and International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of
management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for the opinion expressed above.



203
Financial Statements of the
International Development Association,
the Special Fund Administered
by IDA, and the Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa
Administered by IDA
Statements of Commitment Resources 204
Statements of Changes in Liquid Funds 207
Statements of Condition 208
Summary Statement of Development Credits 210
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions 213
Notes to Financial Statements 216
Report of Independent Accountants 219



204      IDA, Special Fund, and African Facility Financial Statements
Statements of Commitment Resources
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
Changes in Commitment                                            IDA              Special Fund      African Facility
Resources                                                  1989       1988       1989      1988     1989     1988
COMMITMENT AUTHORITYa
Current period transactions:
Subscriptions and contributions ........... ....... $5002 403  $4521.511                              $ 17,754
Retlows available for advance commitments and annual
allocations ............     ................       751.772
Transfers from IBRD-Note F ................ ..   ..               100,000
Income from investments ............_...........                                                         11585
5,754,175   4,621,511                               29,339
Less development credits approved . ............... ..  4932.590  4,458,710                   $27.900  112,600
Effect of current period transactions on resources
available for commitment .........   ........    821,585     162,801                     (27,900)  (83,261)
Translation adjustments ncIroi- commitment authority ....  107.468   (44,519)                     (9.516)  (20,478)
Increase (decrease) in commitment authority .........  ..  929,053  118,282                     (37416) (103,739)
Commitment authority, beginning of fiscal year ..... .....  (1 78.326)  (296,608)                37.416   141,155
Commitment authority, end of fiscal year .. . $ 750.727          $ (178,326)                    $   -   $ 37,416
CHANGES TO FULLY COMMITTED REPLENISHMENTS
Current period allocations:
Cancellations of development credits ................ $ 207,063  $ 153,479  $148,492          $  192
Repayments of development credits not available for
commitment ..     ...   .  .   ...                             159,447
Grant participation in development credits ........... .   2.973   (4,376)
Income from investments    .        ..............    135,283     106,785     6.793  $ 5,932   14.352
Income from operations .          .  .......... ...    12,492      48,039
Total current period allocations .              .   357811     463,374   155.285    5,932   14,544
Translation adjustments on resources under fully commited
replenishments .................                     (139.559)   (140,670)  (14,893)  (2,076)  14,958
Increase in resources under fully committed replenishments .  218.252  322,704  140.392  3,856   29,502
Surplus in resources under fully committed replenishments,
beginning of fiscal year ....  ...................    382.769      60.065    31.943   28,087      -
Surplus in resources under fully committed
replenishments, end of fiscal year .......      .. $ 601.021   $ 382,769   $172,335  $31,943  $29,502
COMMITMENT RESOURCES
Commitment authority, end of fiscal year.$ 750.727               $ (178,326)                         - $ 37,416
Surplus in resources under fully committed replenishments,
end of fiscal year .....     ..    .....      ....    601.021     382.769  $172.335  $31,943  $29,502       -
Total commitment resources             . ..      .    $1.351,748  $ 204,443  $172,335  $31,943  $29,502 $ 37,416



Commitment Resources             205
a IDA reviews periodically the resource position under fully committed replenishments and, if necessary, allocates portions of the resources that become
available for commitment during the period to those replenishments For IDA, these allocations will include income trom operations until it equals the
cumulative losses from operations for the period July 1, 1979 to December31, 1984, totalmg $353,815,000. Losses incurred during that period were not
reduced from commitment authority in accordance with the decision of the Executive Directors that IDA's commitment authority not be reduced by the amount
of deficits during the sixth replenishment period The decision reflected the expectation that future income would be available to reduce these losses Alt income
earned subsequent to that period, amounting to $352,142,000 at June 30, 1989, has been allocated for this purpose.
The Executive Directors have reviewed IDA's resource position under tully committed replenishments and, on September 23, 1988, approved a scheme to
increase commitment authority by permitting IDA to make advance commitments against the reflows that IDA is projected to receive in future years.
Composition of Commitment Resources
IDA                 Special Fund          African Facility
1989         1988         1989       1988       1989        1988
Liquid funds .8..............        ..... .......      1444458    $1,233,202    $ 59,850   $ 64,748   $172.170    $107,831
Cash not immediately available for disbursement-
Note A ......................              .            10.484      184,817
Receivables on account of subscriptions and
contributions ...........................         .  19 446.967  22,330,292    283,689    327,893           9    115,247
Subscriptions and contributions not yet available tor
commitment .i.........................            .   4.321,215)  (8,103,696)
Receivables from International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development-Note F . ... .                         716.626      773,291                               -       150,000
Other assets .........     .................. .           146.508      156,974        268        274        814         242
Reflows available for advance commitments and annual
allocations  .................      ..........         751 772           -
Of which amounts received during period . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .  1184.636i
567.136           -
Less undisbursed credits, accounts payable and
other liabilities  ...........       ...... .....   16 659.216    16.370,437    171.472   360.972     143,491    335,904
Total commitment resources           ..........    $ 1351.748   $   204,443   3172.335   $ 31,943   $ 29.502    S 37.416
See Notes to Financial Statements.






Changes in Liquid Funds         207
Statements of Changes
in Liquid Funds
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
IDA             Special Fund       African Facility
1989        1988      1989     1988     1989       1988
SOURCES OF LIQUID FUNDS
Operations:
Income from development credits-Notes C and G:
Service charges .............  ...............      271 492  $ 246,480
Commitment fees .............      ..............                64,959
Less management fee to IBRD-Note G .     .        .    ............259000  263,400
Income from development credits
less management tee  1    2.      4    9     2 . .....  ... . .  12,492  48.039
Income from investments-Note G          .     ....     140,242    109,354    6 793  $ 5,932  $ 14.352   $11,585
Less amortization of subscription advances ....    .  4.959       2,569
Non-cash items.                    .                 .. 25,675     (39,902)     28      125      (572)       21
Liquid funds from operations ...................173.450         114.922    6,821    6,057    13 780    11,606
Drawdown of subscriptions and contributions   .         3467.970 ...........3   3,337,566  28,293  51,635  262 504  386,156
Grant participations in development credits.27 ............. 3.9      (4,376)
Repayments of development credits ......    . .. . .     184 636     159,447              _     _
Total sources of liquid funds                  3...  ........829,029  3,607,559  35.114  57,692  276.284   397.762
USES OF LIQUID FUNDS
Development credit disbursements  3.559.              206 .. 3,559,206  3,339,203  37.670  57,585  209,612  350,984
Effect of current period transactions
on liquid funds         2          6          9 ................ .. .  269 823  268,356  (2.556)  107  66.672  46,778
TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS ...         . ........      ..5.  .58,567)      (12,579)  (2,342)    158    (2,333)     (353)
Increase (decrease) in liquid funds            . ....  .    211.256    255,777    (4,898)    265    64,339     46,425
Liquid funds, beginning of fiscal year          ....      1.233,202    977.425   64,748   64,483   107,831    61,406
Liquid funds, end of fiscal year .$         .   . ...  . $1.444.458  $1,233.202  $59,850  $64,748  $172.170  $107,831
See Notes to Financial Statements.



208      IDA, Special Fund, and African Facility Financial Statements
Statements of Condition
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
IDA               Special Fund      African Facility
Assets                                                 1989        1988       1989     1988     1989       1988
Unrestricted assets
LIQUID FUNDS
Cash available for disbursements:
Noninterest-bearing demand deposits .   ....... S  80.949  $    14416  S    715 5$   275 $   3.074  $  9.854
Interest-bearing demand deposits ....... .....     48.246       17,861    4.384    3,517      432      2,356
Investments:
of governments and their
instrumentalities ................ .....        683.134     533,397       -      2,533    17,092    22,444
Iluig.-r: of banks and financial institutions . ...  631.523  798,145   54751    58,423   151,572    73,177
Receivable for investment securities sold ..... .     12,490      41,380       -        -         -
Payable for investment securities purchased ... .    (11.884)   (171,997)      -        -         -
1.444.458   1,233,202   59.850   64,748   172.170   107,831
CASH NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE FOR
DISBURSEMENT-Note A .10 484                                      184.817
CASH COLLATERAL INVESTED ...                ...        118,337      37,354
RECEIVABLES ON ACCOUNT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS
AND CONTRIBUTIONS
(,r,r,-,] ,',n,,,-, noninterest-bearing demand 1,I,i1o,,r  t4 724,701  14,612,984  283,689  327,893  9  115,247
Subscriptions and contributions-Note E:
Amounts due ..............................         131,287     133,431
Amounts not yet due ............  ............   4 590 979   7,583,877
19.446.967  22,330,292  283.689  327,893         9   115,247
RECEIVABLES FROM INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT-Note F ... .          716.626     773,291                         -     150,000
DEVELOPMENT CREDITS OUTSTANDING (see Summary
Statement ot Development Credits and Note C)
Total development credits .......... ...........  51900.844    49,082,916
Less undisbursed balance ......   ...............  16,556.580  16,274,159
35.344.264  32,808,757
SPECIAL FUND CREDITS OUTSTANDING (see Summary
Statement of Development Credits and Note C)
Total development credits ........  ............     442.848     608,398
Less undisbursed balance .......     ...........     171.472     360,972
271.376     247,426
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDITS OUTSTANDING (see
Summary Statement of Development Credits
and Note C)
Total development credits ... .   ...........      1.167.496    1,200,650
Less undisbursed balance ..........  ............    143.446     335,874
1,024,050     864,776
OTHER ASSETS
Accrued charges on development credits ...... .....   82,255      95,726
Accrued interest on investments ....... ..........    19.682      18.433      245      274       814       242
Miscellaneous-primarily advances for project
preparation facilities   ............. .....        44,571      42,815       23
146,508     156,974       268      274      814       242
Total unrestricted assets        ...............  58,523,070   58,636,889  343.807  392,915  172,993   373,320
Restricted assets on account
of subscriptions-Note B          ........... ....    265.713     262,694
Total assets    .... ..            . .          . $58,788 783 '? ^. r ..3 $343,807 $392,915  $172,993  $373,320



Statements of Condition      209
IDA                Special Fund         African Facility
Sources of Assets                             1989        1988        1989      1988       1989      1988
Unrestricted sources
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER
LIABILITIES (for IDA this includes payable to
IBRD for management fee of $96,765-1989,
$87,765-1988) ...........S... .       $     102.636  $    96,278             $ $  -         45  $      30
PAYABLE FOR CASH COLLATERAL RECEIVED . .      118,337       37,354
SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
(see Statement of '.,:,im.t Power, and
Subscriptions and Contributions
and Note E) ....................         53.795 836   53,367,708
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL FUND
(see Statement of Voting Power, and
Subscriptions and Contributions)
Total                                                              565.372   581,260
Disbursed ......................  ....      254,507     216,836   (254,507)  (216,836)
Undisbursed                                                        310 865   364,424
CONTRIBUTIONS TO AFRICAN FACILITY
(see Statement of Voting Power,
and Subscriptions and Contributions)
Total                                                                                  1.021,733  1,024,482
Disbursed ..........................      1,040,791     831,179                       (1.040,791)  (831,179)
Undisbursed .(19,058) 193,303
CONTRIBUTION BY SWITZERLAND-Note D . . .       51.173       51,173
TRANSFERS FROM INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT-Note F .........      .....   2,430.801    2,487,466                        150,000    150,000
ACCUMULATED (DEFICIT) SURPLUS      ........    (3,254)     (92.460)   32,942    28,491     42,006     29,987
CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS
ON DISBURSED AND OUTSTANDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDITS:
IDA ..................... ........          732,115    1,577,168
Special Fund .  ......................       16,869      30,590
African  Facility  ......        .....      (16,741)      33,597
732.243    1,641,355
Total unrestricted sources .......        58.523.070  58,636,889   343,807   392,915    172,993    373,320
Restricted Subscriptions-Note B....           265,713      262,694
Total sources of assets ......$..        58,788,783  $58.899,583  $343,807  $392,915 $  172,993  $ 373,320
See Notes to Financial Statements



210        IDA, Special Fund, and African Facility Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
June 30. 1989
IDA                    Special Fund              African Faciliy                      Total
Percentage
Total        Credits        Total       Credits       Total       Credits       Total      Credits       of credits
Borrower or guarantor        -Credits'    outstanding     credits    outstanding    credits    outstanding    credits  -outstanding    oLtstanding
Afghanistan                 $    79,207   $    79,207    $    -        $   -       $     -      $     -   S     79 207  $    79,207        0 22
Bangladesh                    4,664,868     3,182,269     25,807         2.703           -             -    4,690,675     3,184,972       8 69
Benin                           360,665       202.1 96    10,344         9,762           -            -       371,009       211,958       0 58
Bhutan    .. ..                  26,804        11,117         -            -                           -       26,804        11.117       0.03
Bolivia           .             435 684       286 414                                                  -      435,684       286,414       0 78
Botswana        .14031                         14,031         -            -             -            -        14,031        14,031       0 04
Burkina Easo                    365.286       234 166         -            -                           -      365,286       234,166       0 64
Burundi          .     .        484,030       286.537         -             -        17,828       17.828      501 858       304,365       0 83
Cameroon                        238,699       238,678                                                  -      238,699       238 678       0 65
Cape Verde                       19,449         8.397         -            -             -            -        19.449         8,397       0 02
Central African Republic        220,338       145.321         -            -         17 454       17,454      237.792       162 775       0 44
Chad        .                   269,693       107.611         -            -         25 558        9.705      295 251       117 316       0 32
Chile      .           .         15,256        15,256                                    -            -        15,256        15,256       0 04
China    .              .     3.445,610     t.824.772     70.814        61 868           -            -     3,516 424     1,886,640       5 15
Colombia    .15,540                            15,540         -            -                          -        15,540        15,540       0 04
Comoros ...                      43,379        32,549         -                          -            -        43.379        32.549       0.09
Congo, People's
Republic of the               73,305        72,806         -            -             -            -        73.305        72,806       0 20
Costa Rica .                      3,626         3.626         -            -             -            -          3,626        3.626       0.01
C8te dilvoire  .,                 7,050         7,050         -            -                          -          7,050        7,050       0 02
Djibouti      ...38.708                        24,252         -            -                           -       38,708        24,252       0.07
Dominica     .11,320                            7.860         -            -             -             -       11.320         7.860       0 02
Dominican Republic     .         20,490        20.490         -            -             -             -       20,490        20,490       0 06
Ecuador           .32,774                      32,774         -                                        -       32,774        32,774       0 09
Egypt, Arab Republic of        930,926        892,696                      -             -            -       930 926       892,696       2 44
El Salvador                      24,284        24,284         -            -             -            -        24 284        24,284       0.07
Eguatorial Guinea                33.163        24,762         -            .-         4,488        4.400       37.651        29 162       0 08
Ethiopia                .     1,198,139       664,034         -            -             -            -      1,198,139      664,034       1 81
Gambia The                      117.508        60,063                      -         12 218       12,217      129,726        72,280       0 20
Ghanla      .                 1,261.423       705.961     42,264        41,189      167.434      145,603     1,471,121      892 753       2.43
Grenada    .                      6,234         3.547         -                          -            -          6.234        3 547       0.01
Guinea                          551,729       261.346                      -         19.449       19,449      571.178       280 795       0 77
Guinea-Bissau                   132.069        85.839      4,862         4 859       10,597         9,779     147,528       100 477       0 27
Guyana                           47,002        34.138                      -             -            -         47,002       34,138       0 09
Hail,i                          344,791       282,189     14,961         4,626           -            -       359,752       286,815       0.78
Honduras   .                     79,169        79.169         -            -             -            -        79,169        79 169       0 22
India  , .                   16,095,801    11,943,832     80,926         7.541           -            -    16,176,727    11,951.373      32 62
Indonesia                       859,052       857.151         -            -             -            -       859.052       857.151       2 34
Jordan                           78,920        78,920                                           -               78,920       78.920       0 22
Kenya    ..                   1,054,099       656.063     47,126         8.437       52,861       52.861     1.154.086      717,361        1 96
Korea, Republic at              101 337       101,337         -            -                          -       101.337       101 .337      0 28
Lao People's Democratic
Republic .                   149,162        66,366         -            -             -            -       149.162        66,366       0.18
Lesotho   ..                    140 613        90,562         -            -             -             -      140 613        90,562       0 25
Liberia                 .       113,879        97,597                      -             -            .-      113,879        97,597       0 27
Madagascar    .802 014                        516,812     34,783        33,997      127,290       79.607      964.087       630,416        1 72
Malawi    ,    .707,605                       485,255     16,332        12,060       56 975       56.975      780,912       554,290        1.51
Maldives          .15,946                       7 375                      -             -            -         15,946        7,375       0 02
Mali     .582.348                             384,112     13,290        10 998        8,852           -       604,490       395,110        1.08
Mauritania   ,    .             1 72.842      122,1 77        -            -         26 680       26.680      199.522       1483,857      0 41
Mauritius                        19.086        19,086         -            -             -            -         19,086       19,086       0 05
Morocco    .    .40.298                        40 298         -            -             -            -        40,298        40,298       0 11



Statement of Development Credits               211
June 30, 1989
IDA                Specal Fund            African Factlity                 Total
Total      Credits     Total      Credits     Total      Credits      Total     Credits     " -
Borrower or guarantor      credits'  outstanding   credits  outstanding  credits   outstanding   credits  outstanding  outstand ng
Mozarbique               $  346,089 $   126.998   $       -        $  -  $  18078  $   11205  $   364.167 $   138,203     038
Myanmar                     824 507     600.383        -                      -           -       824.507     600.383     164
Nepa,                      1,025,900    497.724        -                                  -     1025 900      497,724     1.36
N caragua                    59,699      59,697        -          -           -           -        59 699      59,697     016
N ger                       425,641     281.500                   -        81.037      74.354     506 678     355,854     0 97
Niger a                     123,990      30 486        -                                  -       123 990      30,486     008
Pakistan                   2,980,856   1.825 313                  -           -           -     2980856     1,825,313     498
Papua New Guinea            111,348     111 348                   -           -           -       111 348     111.348     030
Paraguay        .            42,750      42.750        -                      -           -        42 750      42,750     012
Philipp nes                 102,850     102 850        -                                  -       102 850     102,850     028
Rwarda                 .    410,665     262,042        -                   28,051      15 251     438 716     277,293     0.76
St V ncent and the
Grenadines                  2244          215     4,987       3,916                     -         7231       4.131     001
Sdo Tome and Principe        22,940       11.042       -          -         2867         930       25807       11972      003
Senegal               .     634359      444,379     22,067     21.660      89,016      89.012     745442      555,051     152
S erra Leone        . .     122 219       75,228       -          -           -           -       122.219      75,228     021
So omon Islands   . .         18448       10,946       -          -           -           -        18.448      10,946     003
Somal,a .           . .     440,815     289.560        -          -        35 781      35,265     476,596     324,825     0 89
Sri Lanka   .              1,144,880    661,056        -          -           -           -     1.144.880     661,056     180
Sudan         .            1,188,439    800,359     11,958     11,958         -           -     1200.397      812.317     222
Swaziland       . . .         7,024        7,024       -           -          -           -         7.024       7.024     0.02
Syrian Arab Republic         45,466      45,466        -                      -           -        45.466      45,466     012
Tanzania    . .            1,202,562    882,119        -          -        71.936      71,936   1,274,498     954.055     2.60
Thailand        . ..        110357       110,357       -          -           -           -       110,357     110,357     030
Togo       .                424,651     261,770     23,002     23,002      12.592      12,592     460.245     297,364     0.81
Tonga      .                   1,995       1,394       -          -           -                     1,995       1,394
Tunisa     .                 61,516       61516        -          -           -                    61,516      61,516     0.17
Turkey                      163,667      163,667       -                                  -       163,667     163,667     045
Uganda            .         910,213     582,010        -          -        23.439     23,409      933.652    605,419      165
Vanuatu    .                  11,777       2187        -          -           -           -        11,777       2,187
Viet Nam      .              59.399       59,399       -          -           -           -        59,399      59.399     016
Western Samoa          .     24,778       13,668       -          -                       -        24,778      13,668     004
Yemen Arab Republic         537,655     331,814        -                                  -       537,655     331,814     091
Yemen People's Dem
Rep of                    238,275     172,161    12.343       8924                     -       250.618     181,085     049
Zare                       1.092,977     711,368       -          -       192,618     173,141   1,285,595     884,509     241
Za nb a           .         324,926     171,953      6.982      3.876      64,397     64,397      396,305     240,226     0 66
Z mbabwe                     59,459       58,365       -          -           -           -        59,459      58,365     016
Sustotal members     . 51.850,587  35308004     442.848     271,376   1,167,496   1024,050   53,460,931  36,603,430
(continued)



212      IDA, Special Fund, and African Facility Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits (continued)
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
June 30, 1989
IDA                Special Fund         African Faclity                 Total
,  ,- I  , .
Total      Credits     Total     Credits    Total      Credits     Total     Credits     I, - ii
Borrower or guarantor     creditsa  outstanding  credits  outstandng  credits   outstanding  credits  outstanding  outstanding
Regional development
banks:
West African
Deve opment Bank'  $    19010 $    12,559  $    -     $         $     -    $      -   $   19,010 $    12,559     003
Caribbean Development
Bank'                   20,568     13,022             -               -           -       20,568      13,022     004
Subtotal regional
development banks       39,578     25,581                 --                              39 578      25,581
Otherd                      10,679      10,679       -          -          -          -        10,679     10,679      002
Tota  JLer 3L 1989      851 900844  $35344264   $442848    g,1 376  S1 167494   Si 024050  353511 188 536639690     10000
Total-June 30. 1988     $49,082,916 $32,808,757  $608,398  $247.426  $1,200,650  $ 864.776 $50.891,964 $33,920,959
Less than 0.005 percent
a. Of the undisbursed balance at June 30, 1989. IDA has entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse $162,913,000 ($283,807,000-1988)
b These development credits are for the benefit of Benin, Burkina Faso, Cdte d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.
c These development credits are for the benefit of Grenada and territories of the United Kingdom (Associated States and Dependencies) in the Caribbean
Region
d Represents development credits made at a time when the authorities on Taiwan represented China in IDA (prior to May 15, 1980)
Maturity Structure of Development Credits*
June 30, 1989
Periods                                                       IDA          Special Fund      African Facility      Total
July 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990  ....  ........             $   224,978       $     -            $      -         $   224,978
July 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991  .. ....      ........          274,923             -                   -             274,923
July 1,1991 to June 30, 1992  ....... ...........             321,557             -                   -             321,557
July 1,1992 to June 30, 1993  ......  .   ..........          370,469              75                 -             370,544
July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994 ........ .... I.....            435,206           1,641                 -             436,847
July 1,1994 to June 30, 1999  ....... ...........           3,260,595          22,823             31,828          3,315,246
July 1,1999 to June 30, 2004 ...................            5,576,468          26,028              58,375         5,660,871
July 1, 2004 to June 30, 2009  . .................          7.359,998          66,221             122,031         7,548,250
July 1, 2009 to June 30, 2014  ........          ....       8,512,713          66,221             175,124         8,754,058
July 1, 2014 to June 30. 2019  .. .     ...........         8,311,382          66,221             175,124         8,552,727
July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2024  .7............... ..         7.779,961          66,221             175,124         8,021,306
July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2029 ............ ......           5,901,121          66,221            175,124          6,142,466
July 1, 2029 to June 30, 2034  .................. .         3,015,239          61.176             175,124         3,251,539
July 1, 2034 to June 30, 2038 ....... ...........             556,234             -                79,642           635,876
Total .$51.900.844                                                        $442,848          $1,167,496       $53.511,188
Includes undisbursed balance
See Notes to Financial Statements.



Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions                       213
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
June 30, 1989
IDA
Number          Percentage      Subscriptions         Special            African
of               of               and               Funld             Facility
Members,                                                   votes            total,         contributions      conrifiutonas     contributions
Part I Members
Australia                                                 89 809           1 39          $ 1 003,529         $ 
Austria     .    ..41,288                                                  0 64             396,201                                16,577
Belgium    ..76,534                                                        1 18             820,199            44,597               8,028
Canada     .206,627                                                        3 20            2,542,023          160,687             78.252
Denmark                                                   60,648           0.94             590 821            30,762             23.000
Finland    .    ..37,375                                                   0 58             342,820                               17,368
France   .     .     .247,446                                              3.83            2,971,726          130,459            227,382
Germany, Federal Republic atof                          446.547            6 91            6,213,862               -                  -
Iceland .15 130                                                            0.23                6,808               -
Ireland    ..                                             18,744           0 29              58 562                -                2 143
Italy   .176,890                                                           2 74            1,981,420           85,020            227,954
Japan                                                    601,204           9 30           10,767,589               -                  -
Kuwait                                      .62,222                        0.96             598,398                -
Luxembrourg .                                             16,011           0 25              26,329 
NetreirIands                                            134,224            2 08            1,842,573                             164,522
New Zealand    .        .18,512                                            0.29               55,478               - 
Norway                                                    59,257           0 92             568,8B06           40,175             37,838
South Africa .19,940                                                       0.31               56.799               - 
Sweden                                      .            135,445           2 10            1,430,712           73,672             68,758
United Arab Emirates                                      15,942           0 25             136,536 
United Kingdom                                          375,488            5 81            4,515.798                                  -
United States  .1,124,213                                                 17 40           14,764,907       ~        --136,580
Subtotal .                                          3,979,496          61 59           51,691,896          565,372           1,008,402
Part 1I Members
Afghanistan                                               13,557           0 21                1,341               - 
Algeria    .                                              18,481           0 29                5,163               - 
Argentina                                   .81,053                        1.25               49.092               - 
Bangladesh                                                39,239           0.61                7.051               - 
BeI~ze   .                                                 1,788           0 03                 243 
Benin         ,.                                           4 800           0 07                 622 
Bhutan      ..3,543                                                        0.05                  61 
Bolivia    .,                                             13,748           0 21                1.328 
Botswana                                                  11,745           0 18                 205                - 
Brazi                                                   110lt,398          1 71               63,472               - 
Burktna Faso                                               9,720           0 15                 645                - 
Burundi. . .                                              12,667           0 20                 983                - 
Camneroon   .                                             13.854           0.21                1,309 
Cape Verde    .                                             516            0 01                  96 
Central African Republic                     .            10.920           0 17                 651                - 
C1had      ,                                               6,624           0 10                 645                - 
Chile      IIIII30.612                                                     0.47                4,514 
CPria                                                    128,133           1 98              39,503 
CoombnSa                    .32,781                                        0.51               22,453 
,omoros          .                                         8.827           0 14                 104                - 
Ccrgc People's Republic ot the              .              6 685           0 10                 638 
csta R,ca                                                7,844           0 12                  254               - 
a vo!re                                               7,771           0 12                1,289               - 
17 646           0 27                1,018               - 
532           001l                  193               - 
(continued)



214      IDA, Special Fund, and African Facility Financial Statements
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions [continued)
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Expressed in thousands of US dollars
June 30. 1989
IDA
Number       Percentage    Subscriptions     Special         African
of            ot            and             Fund           Fadiit
Members'                                          votes        total,       conltributions  contributions  contributicns
Part 11 Members (continued)
Dominica                                       68213          0 10          $  100          $  -           $   -
Dominican Republic                              15,726        0 24             581 
Ecuador                                         13,709        0 21             818             -               -
Egypt, Arab Republic of                        28.424         0 44            6,434            - 
El Salvador                                     6,244         0 10             381             --
Equatorial Guinea .1.967                                      0.03             401 
Ethiopia                                       13,109         0 20             669             -
Fji~ ....                            .2,130                   0 03             701             -               -
Gabon   .2,093                                                0 03             627             - 
Gambia, The .....10.644                                       0 16             339             - 
Gbana   ..                                      15.362        0.24            2,962            -               -
Greece .                                        27.429        0 42           12,590            -               -
Grenada .                                       14 468        0 22             121             -               -
Guatemala ....                                  12,713        0 20             513             - 
Guinea   I    . .   .   ..  ...                 17,221        0 27            1,314 
Guinea-Bissau                         . .         528         0 01             169             -               -
Guyana . ..                                     17,891        0 28            1.023            - 
Haiti ....   .14,143                                          0 22            1,016            -               -
Honduras ...... . .                             12,290        0 19             402             - 
Hungary      .  . ....                         49,609         0 77           17,687            - 
India       ..      .204,834                                  3 17           53,637 
Indonesia .                                    65,975         1 02           14,365            -               -
Ifan. Islamic Republic of                      15,455         0 24           5.845             -               -
Iraq .....9,407                                               0 15             992             - 
Israel .  .9,386                                              0 15            2.401 
Jordan                            .             15,388        0 24             394             -               -
Kampuchea, Democratic  .7,826                                 0 12            1,284            - 
Kenya       ..    .  ..16,021                                 0 25            2.149            -               -
Kiribati .512                                                 0 01              72             -               -
Korea, Republic ot                             22,420         0 35           37,619            - 
Lao People's Democratic Republic  ..            11.723        0 18             627             - 
Lebanon . ....                        .         8,562         0 13             564             - 
Lesotho  .  .. .      . . . .10,487                           0.16             204 
Liberia   .13,867                                             0 21            1,016 
Libya                                .          7.771         0.12            1,301 
Madagascar                         ..702                      0.01            1,218 
Malawi ..14,143                                               0 22             972             - 
Malaysia  .25,860                                             0 40           3.397 
Maldives .                        .14,238                     0 22              39             - 
Mali     ..                                     13,507        0 21            1,153            - 
Mauritania ..                                   6,685         0 10             636             - 
Mauritius.           .                          18,142        0 28            1.163            -               -
Mexico .....                                   37,696         0 58           46,673            - 
Morocco                              ..        30,612         0 47            4 668 
Mozambique                                        774         0 01            1.653            -               -
Myanmar .23,560                                               0 36            2,735 
Nepal   .                                      16,254         0.25             654             -               -
Nicaragua                         .            10D,896        0 17             386             - 
Niger    .                                      16,044        0.25             657             - 
Nigeria                           .             4,057         0 06            4.211            -               -



Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions                       215
June 30. 1989
IDA
Number          Percentage      Subscriptions         Special            Af rican
of               of               and                Fund             Facility
Membefs'                                                   votes            total'         contributions      contributions     contributions
Oman                                     .15,490                           0 24         $       430          $                S 
Pakistan                                                 60,087            0.93               13,257               -
Panama                                                     5,657           0 09                  25                -
Papua New Guinea                       ..13,050                            0 20                1,130                                  -
Paraguay                                                  11,124           0 17                 382 
Peru      .854                                                             0 01                2,135               -                  -
Philippines                              ..               16.583           0 26                6,481               - 
Poland   .                                   .           157,729           2.44              46,515
Rwanda . .12,687                                                           0.20                1,012               -                  -
St Kilts and Nevis  .                                       526            0 01                 158                - 
Sr Lucia     .                               .            13,544           0 21                 203 
St Vincent and the Grenadines          . .  .               514            0.01                  84                - 
Sao Tom6 and Principe     .         . .                     514            0 01                  84 
Saudi Arabia      ..                                    203,813            3.15            1,593,213               - 
Senegal..                                ,17,830                           0 28                2,206               - 
Sierra Leone           .               . .12.667                           0 20                 953                -                  -
Solomon Islands                                             518            0 01                 109                -                  -
Somalia   ..                                 .            10,506           0.16                 953                -                  -
Spain    .                                                83,604           1 29              182,455               -               13,331
Sri Lanka                              .28,244                             0.44                3,939               -                  -
Sudan                                                     13,884           0 21                1,289               -                  -
Swaziland                                                 11,073           0 17                 407                - 
Syrian Arab Republic                                       7,651           0.12                1,202                        - 
Tanzania .                                                16,021           0 25                2,112               - 
Thailand    .                                             28 244           0.44                4,072               - 
Togo       .14 143                                                         0.22                 998                -                  -
Tonga      ..                                             11.380           0 18                  94                -                  -
Trinidad and Tobago        .                                 770           0 01                1,629               - 
Tunisia    .                                               2,793           0 04                1,893               -                  -
Turkey  .                                                 41 .842          0 65               18.093               -                  -
Uganda     .16,021                                                         0 25                2,106 
Vanuatu    .                                               4,932           0 08                 235                - 
Viel Nam   . .               .                             8,889           0 14                1,893               - 
Western Samoa        .                                     8,768           0 14                  115               - 
Yemen Arab Republic     .                                 11.468           0 18                 554                - 
Yemen People's Dem. Rep of .                              15,576           0 24                1.582               -                  -
Yugoslavia                                     .          41,855           0 65               19,110                        - 
Za: re                                       .            12.164           0 19                3,785               -                  -
Zambia                                                    19,730           0 31                3.384               - 
Z,mbabwe                                .1,324                             0 02                4,970               -                  -
Subtotal                               .2,482,250                       38 41           2,369,653         ____                  13,331
3i '980,                                      0461 746          1000 co         54 061 549          6565 372         61 021 733
Total-June 30. 1988    .                                 5,835,575                         $53,630,402         $581,260          $1,024,482
a See Notes to Financial Statements-Note 8, for an explanation of the two categories of membership
bTotal may differ from the sum of individual percentages shown because of rounding
See Notes to Financial Statements.



216       IDA. Special Fund, and African Facility Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
Summary of Significant Accounting                                     The subscriptions and contributions provided under the fourth replenish-
and Related Policies                                                  ment and thereafter are expressed in members' currencies or SORs and are
payable in members' currencies Prior to July 1, 1986, amounts receivable
Organization and Operations                                           and amounts received but not yet disbursed were translated at market rates
of exchange at the end of the accounting period Amounts which had been
IDA: IDA was established on September 24, 1960 to promote economic    disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market rates
development, increase productivity, and raise the standard of living of its  of exchange on dates of disbursement or conversion. Beginning July 1,
developing country members                                             1986, amounts received but not yet disbursed, as well as amounts disbursed
or converted info other currencies, are translafed at market rates of exchange
Special Fund: On October 26, 1982, IDA established the Special Fund   on the dates they were made available for disbursement in cash to IDA.
constituted by funds to be contributed by members of IDA and administered
by IDA, to supplement the regular resources available for lending by IDA  Special Fund and African Facility: Undisbursed contributions are
The arrangements governing the Special Fund may be amended or         translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the period. Disbursed
terminated by IDA's Executive Directors subject to the agreement of a  contributions are translated at market rates of exchange effective on the
qualified majority of the contributors to the Special Fund. The resources of  dates of disbursement.
the Special Fund are kept separate from the resources of IDA.
African Facility: On May 21, 1985, IDA established the Special Facility for  Development Credits
Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) constituted by funds to be  All development credits are made to member governments or to the
contributed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  government of a territory of a member except for development credits which
(IBRD) and other donors to provide financing for countries of the     have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members
Sub-Saharan region The African Facility is administered by IDA. The   or territories of members of IDA) It is IDA's policy to place in nonaccrual
resources of the African Facilty are kept separate from the resources of IDA  status all development credits made to a member government or to the
government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect
Translation of Currencies                                             to any such credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA
management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the
IDA: IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in  immediate future. Charges on nonaccruing credits are included in income
the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland Assets and liabilities  only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. IDA has
are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the accounting  not suffered any losses on development credit receivables and has
period Income is generally translated at an average of the market rates of  established no provision for credit losses because no losses are anticipated
exchange in effect during each month Subscriptions and contributions are  IDA: The repayment obligations of IDA's development credits funded from
translated in the manner described below Translation adjustments relating  resources through the fifth replenishment are expressed in fhe development
to the revaluation of development credits denominated in Special Drawing  credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars Pending resolution of the
Rights (SDRs) are charged or credited to Cumu ative Translation Adiust-  valuation issue, as an iterim measure, payments were accepted at the rate
ments on Disbursed and Outstanding Development Credits. Other transla-  of $1 20635 per 1960 dollar. On June 30, 1987, the Executive Directors
tion adjustments are charged or credited to the Accumulated (Deficit)  decided to value such credits at that rate on a permanent basis Development
Surplus                                                               credits funded from resources provided under the sixth replenishment and
Special Fund and African Facility: Assets of the Special Fund and the  thereafter are denominated in SDRs, the principal amounts disbursed under
African Facility are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the  such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value in terms of
period Contributions are translated in the manner described below     SDRs of currencies disbursed
Special Fund: Special Fund credits are denominated in SDRs The principal
Valuation of Subscriptions and Contributions                          amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts
equivalent to the value in terms of SDRs of currencies disbursed
IDA: The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third   Special Fund credits are made on the same terms as regular IDA credits
replenishment are expressed in terms of US dollars of the weight and  except that the proceeds of Speciel Fund credits may ho used only ol finance
fineness in effect on January 1, 1960' (1960 dollars). Following the  expernditures for goods or services from Ia) Part s1 members of IDA: tb) Part
abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the  xmembers contributing to the Special Fund, and P ca Pat I embers
repeal of the provision of the United States law defining the par value of the  contributing to the regular resources of IDA through IDAs FY84 Account
US dollar in terms of gold, the preexisting basis for translating 1960 dollars  who have notified IDA that such contributions are to be treated in the same
into current dollars or any other currency disappeared On June 30, 1987.  mave at contributions        to          be treat   an th e
the Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect on that date and until  manner as contributions to the Specal Fund for purposes of any future
such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are  adtustment of tne votng rghts of fhe members of IDA
amended, to interpret the words United States dollars of the weight and  African Facility African Facility credits are denominated in SDRs The
fineness in effect on January 1, 1960  in Artic e II, Section 2(b) of the  principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts
Articles of Agreement of IDA to mean the Special Drawing Right 1SDR)  equivalent to the value in terms of SDRs of currencies disbursed
introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as the SDO  was valued in  African Facility credits am made to member countries of IDA in Sub-Saharan
terms of United States dollars immediately before the introduction of the  Africa which are eligible for deveiopmert credits of IDA and have undertaken
basket method of valuing the SDO on July 1, 1974, such value being equal  or are committed to undertake medium-term programs of policy reform and
to $1 20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and also decided to apply the  stabilizafion measures acceptable to IDA Proceeds of African Facilty credits
came standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 doilars in the relevant  equivalent to the amount contributed by the IBRD are used in the same
resolutions of the Board of Governors                                 manner as the regular resources of IDA The remaining proceeds are used
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenish-  only to finance expenditures for goods produced or services supplied from
ment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR Prior to the decision of  (a) Part II members of IDA, (b) Part I members contributing to the African
the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contribu-  Facility: and (c) countries which maintain special joint financing arrange-
tions on the basis of the SOR at the current market value of the SDR  ments with IDA



Notes to Financial Stotements            217
Investments                                                                                            June 30,1989
Investment securities are recorded at cost of amortized cost which                                     US$ thousands
approximates market. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by
the difference between proceeds of sales and cost (on a last-in, first-out                 Principal  Principal Income  Nonaccrual
basis), are recorded as an element of income from investments       Borrower             outstanding  overdue   effect    since
Afghanistan     .      $ 79,207    $  26   $ 346    June 1989
Reclassiflcations                                                   Honduras                79,169       569     539   April 1989
Liberia                  97,597      588      616   April 1988
Certain reclassifications of prior year information have been made to  Nicaragua.  . .      59,697     1,643     443   April 1988
conform with the current year's presentation.                       Sierra Leone             75,228      743      521  April 1988
Syrian Arab Republic     45,466     2,055     341   April 1988
Note A-Cash Not Immediately Available for                          Zambia       .     ...  240,226       167    1,146  April 1988
Disbursement                                                                              $676,590    $5,791   $3,952
Under the Articles of Agreement and the arrangements governing replen-
ishments, IDA must take appropriate steps to ensure that, over a reasonable  Note D-Contribution by Switzerland
period of time, the resources provided by donors for lending by IDA are
used on an approximately pro rata basis Donors sometimes contribute cash  IDA has received grant contributions in the amount of Swiss francs
substantially ahead of their pro rata share. Unless otherwise agreed, IDA  181,480,000 from the Swiss Confederation which is not a member of IDA.
does not disburse these funds ahead of donors' pro rota shares Cash Not  The agreements between the Confederation and IDA provide for converting
Immediately Available for Disbursement represents the difference between  these grant contributions into subscriptions or contributions if Switzerland
the cash contributed and the amount available for disbursements on a pro  should become a member of IDA
rata basis
Note E-Subscr3ptions and Contributions
Note B-Restricted Assets and Subscriptions
Maintenance of Value Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA's Articles of
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA IS  Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the
divided into two categories. (1) Part I members. which nake payments of  local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of
subscr ptions and contrbutions provided to IDA in convertible currencies  the member's currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of
whic may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations: (2) Part II  IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the members'
members, wnich make payments of 10% of their initial subscriptions in  territories so long as and to the extent that such currency shall not have
freely convertible currencies and the remaining 90%0 of their initial  been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member.
subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and cortributions in their  The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been
own currencies or in freely convertible currencies IDA's Articles of  extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through
Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the  the third replenishment but are not applicable to those of the tourth and
currency of any Part 11 member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for  subsequent replenishments
protects financed by IDA and located outside the territories of the member
except by agreement between the member and IDA                      The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987, that setiement of
maintenance of value obligations, which would result from the resolution of
the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until
Note C-Development Credits                                         the Executive Directors decide to resume such sehlements
Speciai Fund and African Facility Development Credits Outstandng ale  Eighth Replenishment. On June 26, 1987, the Board of Governors of IDA
included in the Statements of Condition of IDA since principal repayments  adopted a resolution authorizing the eighth replenishment of IDA's re-
on these credits shall become part of the general resources of IDA, unless  sources. The amount of replenishment, including supplementary contribu-
otherwise provided in a decision of IDA's Executive Directors to terminate  tions provided by certain members and a grant from Switzerland, is
administration of the Special Fund and/or African Facility by IDA   equivalent to approximately $12 4 billion (at the exchange rates determined
pursuant to a formula agreed among the contributing members) The eighth
At June 30, 1989, no development credits, other than those referred to  replenishment, which became effective on March 4, 1988 is providing IDA
below were overdue by more than three months                       with resources to fund credits committed during the period July 1. 1987 to
At June 30. 1989, the development credits made to or guaranteed by certain  June 30, 1990 As of June 30, 1989, 32 contributing members (including 21
member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of  Part I members) have notified IDA that they will contribute the equivalent ox
$676,590,000 ($528,859,000-1988) of which $5,791,000 $3.414.000-    approximately $12.9 billion, at current rates of exchange, to the eighth
1988) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status If these credits had not been  replenishment Payment of eighth replenishment subscriptions and contri-
n nonaccrual status, income from credits for the fiscal year would have been  butions is due in three equal annual installments, unless IDA agrees to a
$3,952 000 ($8.981,000-1988) higher This nonaccrual policy went into  different schedule
effect n Apn 1988 A summary of borrowers in nonaccrual status follows'
(continued)



218       IDA, Special Fund, and African Facility Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1988
For purposes of credit commitments by IDA. all contributions to the eighth  Note F-Transters from       The International Bank
replenishment are divided into three equal annual tranches. The first and  for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
second tranches became available for commitment as of the effective date of
the replenishment (except to the extent already available in the form of  IDA  The IBRD has authorized transfers by way of grants to IDA totaling
advance contributions)and as of November30, 1988, respectively. The third  $2510706,000 ($2,567,371,000-1988) from net income of the IBRD for
tranche will become available for commitment by IDA for credits as of   the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30, 1987. Of the total
November 1. 1989, unless a contributing member authorizes IDA to use    amount, $79,905,000 ($79,905,000-1988) has been disbursed for grants
such amounts earlier. Contributions may not be released in their entirety by  for agricultural research, the control of onchocerciasis, and other develop-
other contributing members it any contributing member with a share in the  mental activities Of the balance of $2,430,801,000 ($2.487,466,000-
replenishment of more than 20% which has deposited with IDA a Qualified  1988)  available  for  general  purposes  of  IDA,  $1714,175,000
Instrument of Commitment has not deposited notifications of unqualifed  ($1,714,175,000-1988)    has  been   received  and   $716,626,000
commitments for the third tranche of its contnibution by October 31, 1989.  ($773,291,000-1988) is reflected as a receivable from the IBRD.
In this situation, other contributing members have the right to reduce their  Atrican Facility: The IBRD authorized a transter to the African Facility of
third tranche on a pro rata basis                                       $150,000,000 Ftrom  net income of the IBRD for the fiscal year ended
Ninth Replenishment: Currently, negotiations are under way among IDA's  June 30. 1985 These funds were paid to the African Facility in the fiscal
donor members for the ninth replenishment of IDA's resources, which will  year ended June 30, 1989
provide resources to IDA for the period from July 1, 1990 through June 30,
1993.                                                                   Note G-Income and Expenses
Subscriptions and Contributions Not Yet Due: At June 30, 1989 and       IDA IDA pays a management fee to the IBRD representing its share of the
1988, the composition of unrestricted subscriptions and contributions   administrative expenses incurred by the IBRD During fiscal year 1987 the
(expressed in thousands of US dollars) not yet due will become due as   IBR0 announced a reorganization to improve its efficiency and effectiveness
follows.                                                                IDAs original share of accrued reorganization costs was included in its
management fee to IBRD in fiscal year 1987. In September 1987 the cost
Fiscal years                              1989            1988          estimate of the reorganization was revised, and IDAs share was in-
creased.The portion of the increase which related to IDA of $12,400,000 is
IOA                                                                     included in Management Fee in the accompanying Statements of Changes
1989          .                        $      --       $2,785,778      in Liquid Funds for the period ended June 30, 1988
1990.                                   2 833 802       2,786'984
1991    .    .. . .     .                 646 457             -         Special Fund and African Facility: The service and commitment charges
1992        .                              93 438             -         payable by borrowers under Special Fund and African Facility credits are
Undetermined   .           .            1.017,282       2,011.115       paid directly to IDA to compensate it tor services as administrator of the
Total  $4 590 979  $7 583 877    Special Fund and the African Facility Income from investments of the
Total                               $4,590,979      $7,583,877       Special Fund and the African Facility becomes part of the resources of the
Special Fund and the African Facility, respectively



Report of Independent Accountants  219
Report of Independent Accountants
1801 K Street. NW.            Telephone 202 833 7932
Washington, DC 20006
Price "laterhouse                                                               0
July 26. 1989
President and Board of Governors,
International Development Association,
Special Fund Administered by the International
Development Association, and the Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa Administered by the
International Development Association
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 204 through 218 of this Report present fairly, in
all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the International Development
Association, Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association, and the Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa Administered by the International Development Association at June 30, 1989
and 1988, and the changes in their commitment resources and their liquid funds for the years then ended in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and International Accounting
Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management: our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for the opinion expressed above.
D                \    /s 






IBRD/IDA Appendices  221
IBRD/IDA Appendices
1    Governors and Alternates of the World Bank  222
2    Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank and Their Voting
Power 225
3    Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank  227
4    Offices of the World Bank  229



222     IBRD!IDA Appendices
Governors and Alternates                                                                    Appendix 1
of the World Bank
June 30, 1989
Member                                                Governor                            A ternate
Afghanistan .........................    Hamidullah Tarzi .Zalmai Ahmadi
Algeria ..........................       Sid Ahmed Ghozali .Mokdad Sifi
Antigua and Barbuda'. .... John E. St. Luce .Ludolph Brown
Argentina ..........................     Jesus Rodriguez .Enrique Garcia Vazquez
Australia ..........................     P. J. Keating .Bob Dun
Austria  .......................... Ferdinand Lacina.d .Lac       m         Othmar Haushoter
Bahamas, The' ..............  ........   Sir Lynden O. Pindling.            Ethelyn C. Isaacs
Bahraina ....    ...................     Ibrahim Abdul Karim .Isa Abdulla Borshaid
Bangladesh .........................     A. K. Khandker .Enam Ahmed Chaudhury
Barbadosa ..........................     L. Erskine Sandi      frd .Winston A. Cox
Belgium ..........................       Philippe Maystadt .Jean Godeaux
Belize ...........................       Dean Barrow .Yvonne S. Hyde
Benin ..........................         Simon Itede Ogouma .Saliou Aboudou
Bhutan   .......................... Daw        a Tsering .Karma Dorjee
Bolivia ..........................       Fernando Romero .Jacques Trigo
Botswanat.    s     w    a    na.............. . P. S. Mmusi .Baledzi Gaolathe
Brazil ..........................        Mailson Ferreira da Nobrega .Elmo de Araujo Camoes
Burkina Faso .......................     Pascal Zagre .Henri Bruno Bessin
Burundi ..........................       Gerard Niyibigira .Salvator Nkeshimana
Cameroon ..........................      Elizabeth Tankeu .Simon Ngann Yonn
Canada ..........................        Michael H. Wilson .Margaret Catley-Carlson
Cape Verde ........................      Arnaldo C. de Vasconcelos Franca ..  Antonio Hilario Cruz
Central African Republic ................  Thierry Bingaba .Robert Amedi
Chad ..........................          Mahamat Soumaila.                  Ahmed Kerim Togoi
Chile ..........................         Enrique Seguel Morel .Pablo Ihnen de la Fuente
China ..........................         Wang Bingqian .Chi Ha bin
Colombia .........................       . Luis F. Alarc6n-Mantilla .Francisco J. Orega
Comoros.Miro                      s   .    . Mikidache Abdourahim .Tadiiddine Ben Said Massond
Congo, People's Republic of the ...... ....  Dieudonne Diabatantou .Andre Batanga
Costa Rica ..........................    Fernando E. Naranjo .Eduardo Lizano Fait
C6te d'lvoire ........................   Abdoulaye Kon .Leon Naka
Cyprus ..........................        George Syrimis .Michael Erotokritos
Denmark ...........................      Uffe Ellemann-Jensen.              Ole Loensmann Poulsen
Djibouti ...........................     Mohamed Djama Elabe .Ahmed Samireh Omar
Dominica ..........................      Mary Eugenia Charles .Alick B. Lazare
Dominican Republic ............ .......  Roberto B. Saladin Selin .Manuel E. Gomez Pieterz
Ecuador ..........................       Jorge Gallardo Zavala .Edison Ortiz Duran
Egypt, Arab Republic of ......... .......  Kamal El-Ganzoury .Maurice Makram-Allah
El Salvador ....................... .    Remo Bardi Cevallos .Mauricio Antonio Gallardo
Equatorial Guinea ........... .........  Antonio Fernando Nve Ngu .Juan Efua Efua Asangono
Ethiopiah.................               Wollie Chekol. .C heko             Seyoum Alemayehu
Fiji ........................      ..    J. N. Kamikamica .Rigamoto Taito
Finland ..........................       Erkki Liikanen.                    Osmo Sarmavuori
France   .......................... Jacques de Larosie         re .Jean-C aude Trichet
Gabon    .......................... Pascal Nze .Jean-FP1ix Mamalepot
Gambia, The ........................     Saihou S. Sabally .Mamour M. Jagne
Germany, Federal Republic of ............  Juergen Warnke .Hans Tietmeyer
Ghana ..........................         Kwesi Botchwey . . ..... . . ..    Kwesi Bekoe Amissah-Arthur
Greece   .......................... Panagiotis Roumeliotis .Roumeliotis     Yannis Papantoniou
Grenada  .......................... Herbert Augustus Blaize .Lauriston F. Wilson. Jr.
Guatemala ..........................     Rodolfo Paiz Andrade.              Oscar Pineda Robles
Guinea   .......................... Edouard Benjamin .Kerfalla Yansane



Appendix 1     223
Member                                             Governor                          Alternate
Guinea-Bissau .......................  Pedro A. Godinho G6mes .......   Jose Lima Barber
Guyana ...........................     Cart Greenidge .................  Winston Murray
Haiti ...........................       L eonce  F. Thelusma ..............  Jacques Vilgrain
Honduras .............  .............  Carlos Falck Contreras ............  Gonzalo Carias Pineda
Hungary ...........................   Imre Tarafas ....................  Tibor Melega
Iceland ...........................    Jon Sigurdsson .........  .......  Olafur R. Grimsson
India ...........................      S. B. Chavan ...................  G. K. Arora
Indonesia ...........................  J. B. Sumarlin ..... .   .....   Hasudungan Tampubolon
Iran, Islamic Republic of ......... .......  Mohammad Javad Iravani ..........  Ali Majedi
Iraq .    ...............              Hikmat Omar Al-Hadithi .... ......  Subhi Frankool
Ireland ..........................     Albert Reynolds .................  Sean P. Cromien
Israel ...........................     Michael Bruno .................  Yaacov Lifshitz
Italy ...........................      Carlo Azeglio Ciampi .............  Mario Sarcinelli
Jamaicaa' ...      ......................  Seymour Mullings ...         Harold W. Milner
Japan ...........................      Tatsuo Murayama ...............  Satoshi Sumita
Jordan ...........................     Taher H. Kanaan ................  Mohammad H. Al-Saqqaf
Kampuchea, Democratic ................  (vacant) .................. ...  (vacant)
Kenya ...........................      George Saitoti ..................  Charles S. Mbindyo
Kiribati ...........................   Teatao Teannaki ................  Baraniko Baaro
Korea, Republic of .. ...................  Kyu Sung Lee .................  Kun Kim
Kuwait ...........................     Jassim Mohamed Al-Kharafi ........  Bader Meshari Al-Humaidhi
Lao People's Democratic Republic .........  Sisavath Sisane .................  Soulingong Nhouyvanisvong
Lebanon ....   :                       Habib Abou-Sakr ...............  Raja Himadeh
Lesotho ..........................     Michael M. Sefali ..............  Tom Liphapang Tuoane
Liberia ..........................     Elijah E. Taylor .................  G. Pewu Subah
Libya ........................    ..   Mohamed El Madni Al-Bukhari ......  Bashir Ali Khallat
Luxembourg ............ ............   Jacques Santer .....    ......   Raymond Kirsch
Madagascar ................ ........   Pascal Rakotomavo ...............  Jean Robiarivony
Malawi ..........................      L. Chimango ..............  ....  C. D. Nthenda
Malaysia ...........................   Daim Zainuddin .................  Zain Azraai
Maldives ..........................    Fathulia Jameel .................  Khadeeja Hassan
Mali ..........................        Anthioumane N'Diaye .............  Oumar Kassongue
Maltaa ..      ..........................  George Bonello Du Puis ...........  Edgar Wadge
Mauritania ................ .........  Mohamed Ould Nany .............  Mohamedou Ouid Michel
Mauritius ..........................   Beergoonath Ghurburrun ...........  Madnukarlall Baguant
Mexico .........   ........   .....    Pedro Aspe ............ .......  Jose Angel Gurria
Morocco ...........................    Mohamed Berrada ...............  Mustapha Faris
Mozambique ........................    Abdul Magid Osman ..............  Eneas da Conceigao Comiche
Myanmarl ...                           D. 0. Abel .............      .  Min Aung
Nepal ..........................       Bharat Bahadur Pradhan ...........  Lok Bahadur Shrestha
Netherlands .........................  H. 0. Ruding ............ ......  P. Bukman
New Zealand .............. .........   Graham C. Scott ................  Chris N. Pinfield
Nicaragua ..........................   Joaquin Cuadra Chamorro ........  Pedro Antonio Blandfn Lanzas
Niger ....................    ......   Yahaya Tounkara ................  Ali Sabo
Nigeria ..........................     Chu S. P. Okongwu ..............  Aliyu Mohammed
Norway ..........................      Gunnar Berge ........... .......  Arne Arnesen
Oman ..........................        Qais Abdul-Munim Al-Zawawi .......  Mohammed Bin Musa Al-Yousef
Pakistan ..........................    V. A. Jafarey ...................  Izharul Haque
Panama ..........................      Gustavo R. Gonzalez J ............  Orville K. Goodin
Papua New Guinea ....................  Paul Pora .....................  Morea Vele
(continued)



224     IBRD/IDA Appendices
Governors and Alternates                                                                   Appendix 1
of the World Bank                             (continued)
June 30, 1989
Member                                               Governor                           A ternate
Paraguay ..........................     Enzo Debernardi .Oscar Jacinto Obelar
Peru .....   ....................       Cesar Vasquez Bazan .Pedro Coronado Labo
Philippines .........................    . Vicente R. Jayme .Solita C. Monsod
Poland ...........................      Zdzislaw Pakula .Grzegorz Wojtowicz
Portugala .   . . .... ..... ........    . Miguel Cadihe .(vacant)
Qatara ...........................      Abdul Aziz Khalifa Al-Thani        Madhat Abdul Latif Masoud
Romaniaa.                               Ion Patan.                         Gheorghe Popescu
Rwanda ........................... Benoit Ntigulirwa .Emmanuel Ndahimana
St. Kitts and Nevis ....................  Kennedy A. Simmonds .William V. Herbert
St. Lucia ...........................   John G. M. Compton .Dwight Venner
St. Vincent and the Grenadines ...... .....  James F. Mitchel .Henry A. Gaynes
Sao Tome and Principe .... Agapito Mendes Dias .Manuel de Nazareh Mendes
Saudi Arabia ........................   Mohammad Abalkhail .Hamad Al-Sayari
Senegal ...........................     Djibo Laity Ka .Youssouf Diop
Seychellesa .........................   Danielle de St. Jorre .Bertrand Rassool
Sierra Leone ........................   Hassan G. Kanu .A. M. Doherty
Singapore'. .... Richard Hu Tsu Tau .T                          a          Lee Ek Tieng
Solomon Islands .....................   Christopher C Abe .Leonard Palmer Maenu'u
Somalia ........................... Mo            hamed Sheikh Osman .Abdulkadir Aden Mohamud
South Africa .........................  G. P. C. de Kock .J. A. Lombard
Spain ...........................       Carlos Soichaga .Mariano Rubio Jimenez
Sri Lanka ..........................    D. B. Wijetunge .R. Paskaralingam
Sudan ..............in..........        . Omer Nour E      ldaim .El Sayid Ali Zaki
Suriname' ....................... . .   Subhas Ch. Mungra .R. W. Braam
Swaziland ..........................    Andreas Fakudze .Noreen N. Maphalala
Sweden ...........................      Kjell-Olof Feldt .Lena Hjelm-Wallen
Syrian Arab Republic ................ .  Mohammed Khaled Mahayni .Marwan Kodsi
Tanzania ...........................    Cleopa D. Msuya .Simon Mbilinyi
Thailand ................ ..........    Pramual Sabhavasu .Panas Simasathien
Togo .......................     ....   Barry Moussa Barque .Kwassi Klutse
Tonga ...........................       James Cecil Cocker .Selwyn Percy Jones
Trinidad and Tobago ................... Selby W      ilson .Wiliam Demas
Tunisia ...........................     Mohamed Ghannouchi .Zein Mestiri
Turkey ...........................      Namik Kemal Kilic .Mabi Egilmez
Uganda ...........................      Joshua Mayanja Nkangi .Suleiman Kiggundu
United Arab Emirates ..........  .......  Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum     Ahmed Humaid Al-Tayer
United Kingdom .....................    . Robin Leigh-Pemberton .John Cainesc
United States ........................  Nicholas F. Brady .Richard T. McCormack
Utuguaya ...........................    Ricardo Zerbino Cavajani .Ariel Davtieux
Vanuatu ...........................     Sela Molisa .George Pakoa
Venezuelaa ........... ...... ....      Miguel Rodriguez .Eduardo Quintero
Viet Nama. ..................           . Cao Si Kiem .(vacant)
Western Samoa ......................    Tuilaepa S. Malielegai .Kolone Va'ai
Yemen Arab Re   public        .................. Mohammed Saeed A-Attar .  Kaid Mohammed Al-Hirwi
Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of ... .  Farag Bin Ghanem .Abdulla Saeed Abaddan
Yugoslavia ..... ............ .......   Branimir Zekan .Boris Skapin
Zaire ...........................       Katanga Mukumadi ya Mutumba        Mbonga Magalu Engwanda
Zambia ......................           Gibson G. Chigaga .Leonard Nkhata
Zimbabwe .... .....................     B. T. G. Chidzero.                 K. J. Moyana
a. Member of the IBRD only
b. Formerly Burma
c. Succeeded by Timothy Lankester July 1, 1989



Appendix 2        225
Executive Directors and Alternates                                                                Appendix 2
of the World Bank and
Their Voting Power
June 30, 1989
IBRD            IDA
Total  % of    Total   % of
Executive director                    Alternate                 Casting votes of          votes  total  votes    total
Appointed
E. Patrick Coady ............ Mark T. Cox, IV ....... United States .... .............. 162,773 16.47 1,124,213 17.47
Masaki Shiratori ........      Yukio Yoshimura ...... Japan ....................... 94,020       9.51   601,204  9.34
Gerhard Boehmer ........       Michael von Harpe ... Federal Republic of Germany ........ 72,649  7.35  446,547  6.94
Frank Cassell ........         J. A. L. Faint ......... United Kingdom ................. 69,647  7.05   375,488  5.84
Helene Ploix ........          Stephane Pallez ....... France ....................... 47,477     4.80   247,446  3.85
Elected
Jacques de Groote ......... Bahar Sahin .....        Austria, Belgium, Hungary,
(Belgium)                     (Turkey)            Luxembourg, Turkey .49,800                   5 04  225,284   3.50
Frank Potter .                Clarence Ells . ....   Antigua and Barbuda', The Bahamas',
(Canada)                      (Guyana)             Barbados', Belize, Canada, Dominica.
Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaicaa,
St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines .    41,872  4.24   280,315  4.36
Jonas H. Haralz .......        Veikko Kantola....... Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway,
(Iceland)                     (Finland)           Sweden .40,025                               4.05  307,855   4.78
Mario Draghi .......           Rodrigo M. Guimaraes . Greece. Italy, Maltaa, Poland, Portugal'. 39.520  4.00  362,048  5.63
(Italy)                       (Portugal)
Jorge Pinto ....              Francisco Vannini5 ... Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,
(Mexico)                      (Nicaragua)         Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama,
Spain, Venezuela .37,071                    3.75   176.944  2.75
Chang-Yuel Lim.      ....... Robert G. Carling . ... Australia, Kiribati, Korea (Republic of),
(Republic of Korea)           (Australia)         New Zealand, Papua New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, Western
Samoa .35,468 3.59 158,521 2.46
Paul Ariman.    ..       ..   Cvitan Dujmovi6 . .    Cyprus. Israel, Netherlands, Romanial,
(Netherlands)                 (Yugoslavia)        Yugoslavia .31,293                           3.17  203,111   3.16
C. R. Krishnaswamy Rao Sahib. . M. Mustafizur Rahman. . Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
(India)                       (Bangladesh)        Sri Lanka.                           31,275  3.16  275,860   429
Fawzi Hamad Al-Sultan .......  Mohamed W. Hosny . . Bahrain', Egypt (Arab Republic of),
(Kuwait)                      (Arab Repubic of    Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Egypt)            Maldives, Oman, Pakistan, Qatara,
Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab
Emirates. Yemen Arab Republic .     30,908  3.13   248,879  3.87
Mourad Benachenhou ......... Salem Mohamed Omeisn Afghanistan, Algeria, Goana, Iran
(Algeria)                     (Libya)             (Islamic Republic of), Libya, Morocco,
Tunisia, Yemen (People's Democratic
Republic of) .30,469                        3.08   119,607  1.86
(continued)



226      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Executive Directors and Alternates                                                                    Appendix 2
of the World Bank and
Their Voting Power (continued)
June 30, 1989
IsRD            IDA
Total  % of    Total   % of
Executive director                       Alternate                  CasUng votes ot           votes  total   votes   total
Eduardo Wiesner.      ........ Pedro Sampaio Ma(an      Brazil, Colombia, Dominican Republic,
(Colombia)                       (Brazil)             Ecuador, Haiti, Philippines, Surinamea.
Trinidad and Tobago .............. 26,724    2.70  204,110   3.17
J. S. A. Funna ...        ... Jabez A. Langley ...... Botswana, Burundi, Ethiopia, The
(Sierra Leone)                   (The Gambia)         Gambia, Guinea, Kenya, Lesotho,
Liberia, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria,
Seychelles', Sierra Leone, Sudan,
Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia,
Zimbabwe ...                         25,623  2.59  215,455   3.35
Zhang Junyi ................ Jin Liqun ....... ... China ......                              25,392  2.57  128,133   1.99
(China)                          (China)
Jobarah E. Suraisry ............ Abdulaziz Al-Sehail .... Saudi Arabia ..                    25,390  2.57  203,813   3.17
(Saudi Arabia)                   (Saudi Arabia)
Raymundo Morales ............ Felix Alberto Camarasa. Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay,
(Peru)                           (Argentina)          Peru, Uruguaya .................. 24,745     2.50  137,391  2.14
Mohd. Ramli Wajib ......         Le Van Chau .Fiji, Indonesia, Lao People's
(Malaysia)                      (Viet Nam)            Democractic Republic, Malaysia,
Myanmarc, Nepal. Singaporea, Thailand,
Tonga, Viet Nam ................. 24.324     2.46  194,015   3.02
Andre Milongo .........            ... Jean-Pierre Le Bouder . . Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape
(People's Republic              (Central African     Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
of the Congo)                    Republic)         Comoros, Congo (People's Republic of
the), Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Equatorial
Guinea, Gabon, Guinea-Bissau,
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Senegal, Somalia, Togo,
Zaire .21,843                                2.21  197,741   3.07
In addition to the executive directors shown in the foregoing list, the following also served after October 31, 1988
Executive director          End of period of service               Executive director               End of period ot service
Mitsukazu Ishikawa .........          June 7, 1989                 Murray A. Sherwin .........                May 31, 1989
(Japan)                                                            (New Zealand)
Robert B. Keating ....        .... May 18, 1989
(United States)
NoTE: Democratc Kampuchea (464 votes in IBRD and 7,826 votes in IDA) and South Africa (7,805 votes in IBRD and 19,940 votes in IDA) did not participate
in the 1988 reguiar election of executive directors
a. Member of the 18RD only.
b. Succeeded by Edgar Ayares (Costa R ca), July 1,1989.
c Formerly Burma.



Appendix 3      227
Officers and Department Directors                                                          Appendix 3
of the World Bank
June 30, 1989
President ..........................................................              Barber B. Conable*
Senior Vice  President, Policy, Planning, and  Research ..............................  W. David  Hopper**
Senior Vice President, Operations  ............................................    Moeen A. Qureshi**
Senior Vice President, Finance . .............................................    Ernest Stern**
Senior Vice President, External Aftairs and Administration . ..........................  Willi A. Wapenhans'*
Finance
Vice President and Controller  ...............................................    Sune B. Carlsson
Vice President ard Treasurer        ..........................                     Donald Roth
Vice President, Financial Policy and Risk Management ............ .. ...............  D. Joseph Wood
Operations
Vice President, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office ........ .. ............  S. Shahid Husain
Vice President, Cotinancing and Financial Advisory Services .......... .. .............  Kunihiko Inakagea
Vice President, Africa Regional Office   .......................                  Edward V. K. Jaycox
Vice President, Asia Regional Office .....................t................... .  Attila Karaosmanoglu
Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Regional Office ....... ..........  Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Policy, Planning, and Research
Vice President, Development Economics and Chief Economist ......... .. .............  Stanley Fischer
Vice President, Sector Policy and Research  .................. ...................  Visvanathan Rajagopalan
Operations Evaluation
Director-General, Operations Evaluation  ........................................  Yves Rovani
Legal
Vice  President and  General  Counsel ........................................     brahim   F. I. Shihata**
Secretary's
Vice President and Secretary  .............................................       Timothy T. Thahane**
External Affairs and Administration
Vice President, Personnel  ...............................................        William J. Cosgrove
Finance
Director,  Cashier's  Department ...............................................  Hywel  M.  Davies
Deputy  Treasurer and  Director, Treasury  Operations ..............................  .  Stephen  0. Eccles
Director, Financial  Operations  Department .................  .....................  Jessica  P. Einhorn
Director,  Investment  Department ..............................................  Bernard  J.  Holland
Director,  Tokyo  Office  .....................................................   Akira  lidab
Director, Loan and Trust Fund Department  ......................................  James H. Jennings
Director, Resource Mobilization Department  .....................................  Basil G. Kavalsky
Director, Risk Management and Financial Policy Department  .........................  D. C. Rao
Operations
Director, Cotinancing  and  Financial Advisory  Services  ..............................  David  R. Bock
Director, Economic Advisory Staff  ............................................   Vinod Dubey
Director,  Central Operations  Department ........................................  Ducksoo  Lee
Director, Operations Staff  ..................................................    Heinz Vergin
Africa Regional Office
Director,  Country  Department  .......................  .......  ..............  M ichael J.  Gillette
Director,  Country  Department  ...........  ....................................  Paul  Isenman
Director,  Country  Department, .   . .......................................     Caio  K. Koch-W eser
Director,  Country  Departm ent ..... ..........................................  Callisto  E.  Madavo
Director, Country Department ...............................................      Sven Sandstrom
Director, Country Department        ..........................                    M. Ismail Serageldin
Director, Technical Department  ..............................................    Hans Wyss
Asia Regional Office
Director,  Country  Department .......................  ........................  Bilsel  Alisbah
Director,  Country  Department ................................................   Shinji  Asanuma
Director,  Country  Department ..................................       .....     Shahid  Javed  Burki
(continued)



228     IBRD/IDA Appendices
Officers and Department Directors                                                           Appendix 3
of the WorloId                Bank          (continued)
June 30, 1989
Director,  Country  Department  ................................................  Russell  J.  Cheetham
Director,  Country  Department  ................................................   Gautam   S.  Kaji
Director, Technical Department . . .................. ....... ................    Amnon Golan
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Regional Office
Director,  Country  Department  ...... . ........................................  Kemal  Dervis
Director,  Country  Department  ................................................  Hans-Eberhard  Kopp
Director,  Country  Department ... ..........  .................................  Eugenio  F.  Lari
Director,  Country  Department .......................... .....................   Everardus  J.  Stoutjesdijk
Director, Technical Department  ..............................................    Abderraouf Bouhaouala
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Director,  Country  Department .......  ..................... ..................  Pieter  P.  Bottelier
Director,  Country  Department .........  ......................................  Armeane  M.  Choksi
Director,  Country  Department  . .............................. ................  Ping-Cheung  Loh
Director,  Country  Department.  .................. ............................  Rainer  B.  Steckhan
Director, Technical Department  ..............................................    Everardo C. Wessels
Policy, Planning, and Research
Director, Internatonal Economics Department .......... ..........................  Jean Baneth
Director, Industry and Energy Department .......................................  Anthony A. Churchill
Executive Secretary, Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research ......... ...  Curtis Farrarc
Director, Population and Human Resources Department .............................  Ann D. Hamilton
Director, Country Economics Department ........... ............................   John A. Holsen
Director, Agriculture and Rural Development ............ . .......................  Michel J. Petit
Director, Planning  and  Budgeting  Department              ......................................  Robert Picciotto
Director, Environment Department ..   ................    ...................     Kenneth Piddington
Director, Infrastructure and Urban Development Department .......  .................  Louis Y. Pouliquen
Director, Strategic Planning and Review Department  ...............................  Alexander Shakow
Director, Economic  Development  Institute  .......................................  Christopher R. Willoughby
Operations Evaluation
Director, Operations Evaluation Department ......................................  Ram Kumar Chopra
Legal
Associate General Counsel ....................  ............................       Hugh N. Scott
External Affairs and Administration
Director, External AHairs Department  ................................. ........  Francisco J. Aguirre-Sacasa
Director, Personnel Operations  Department ......................................  Alberto  de  Capitani
Director, Publications ...........   .........................................    James K. Feather
Director, Personnel Policy Department  ........................................   Ian M. Hume
Director, Health Services Department  ..........................................  Dr. Michael H. K. Irwin
Director, Information. Technology, and Facilities Department  .........................  Harinder S. Kohli
Director.  European  Office .................................................D. Olivier  Latourcade
Auditor General, Internal Auditing Department ....................................  Alan Douglas Legg
Director, General Services Department ...R.............   ......... _ .......     Bichard B. Lynn
Director of Information; and Chief, Media and Communications Division ........... .....  Frank R. Vogl
Chairman, President's Council.
Member, President's CouncP
a. Succeeded by Koc Kashiwaya as of June 30, 1989.
b Succeeded by Nobuaki Kemmochi as of June 30, 1989
c. Succeeded by Alexander von der Oster as of June 6. 1989



Appendix 4        229
Offices of the World Bank                                                                         Appendix 4
June 30, 1989
Headquarters: 1818 H Street, N.W. d.r-,tirr D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
New York Office                    G. David Loos                         The World Bank Mission to the
Special Representative to the           United Nations/New York OHice
United Nations                     747 Third Avenue (26th floor)
New York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.
European Office                    Olivier Latourcade                    The World Bank
Director                             66, avenue d'lena
75116 Paris, France
Geneva Office                       Wolfgang E. Siebeck                  The World Bank
World Bank Representative to         ITC E..  .
United Nations Organizations-         54, rue de Montbrillant
Geneva                                Geneva, Switzerland
(mailing address: P.O.Box 104
1211 Geneva 20 CIC, Switzerland)
Tokyo Office                        Akira lidae                          The World Bank
Director                              Kokusai Building (Room 916)
1-1 Marunouchi 3-chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan
Regional Mission                   Peter Eigen                           The World Bank
in Eastern Africa                Director                              Reinsurance Plaza (5th and 6th floors)
Taita Road
Nairobi, Kenya
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30577)
Regional Mission                    Elkyn Chaparro                       The World Bank
in Western Africa                Chief                                 Corner of Booker Washington & Jacques
AKA Streets
Cocody, Abidjan 01, Cote d'lvoire
r, - l address: B.P. 1850)
Regional Mission                    Philippe E. Annez                    The World Bank
in Thailand                      Chief                                 Udom Vidhya Building (5th floor)
956 Rama IV Road, Sala Daeng
Bangkok 10500, Thailand
Bangladesh                          Francis S. B. L. van Gigch           Resident M ssion
Chief                                The World Bank
3A Paribagh
Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
(mailing address: G.P.O. Box 97)
Benin                               Shigeo Katsu                         The World Bank
Resident Representative              Zone Residentielle de la Radio
Cotonou, Benin
(mailing address: B.P. 03-2112)
Bolivia                            Fernando Mendoza                      Banco Mundial
Resident Representative               Edificio BISA, Piso 9
16 de Julio 1628
La Paz, Bo ivia
(ma ling address. Casilla 8692)
(coent mued)



230      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank                                           (continued)                   Appendix 4
June 30, 1989
Brazil                             George Papadopoulos                   Banco Mundial
Resident Representative              Setor Comercial Sul, Quadra 02
Edificio OK. No. 78
Quarto Andar
Brasilia 70.300, Brazil
Brazil                              George Papadopoulos                  Banco Mundial
Resident Representative              c/o Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
Rua Real Grandeza, 219
Bloco C, Nono Andar
Rio de Janeiro, RJ 24000 Brazil
Brazil                              Edward B. Rice                       Banco Mundial, S/127
Resident Representative               Edificio SUDENE
Cidade Universitaria
50,000 Recife PE. Brazil
Burkina Faso                        Claude R. Delapierre                 The World Bank
Resident Representative              Immeuble BICIA (3eme 6tage)
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
(mailing address: B.P. 622)
Burundi                             Maurice Gervais                      The World Bank
Resident Representative              45, avenue de la Poste
Bujumbura, Burundi
(mailing address: B.P. 2637)
Cameroon                            Raymond Rabeharisoa                  The World Bank
Resident Representative              Bastos
Yaounde, Cameroon
(mailing address: B.P. 1128)
Central African                    Jean-Paul Dailly                      The World Bank
Republic                         Resident Representative               Rue des Missions
Bangui. C.A.R.
(mailing address: B.P. 819)
Chad                                Horst Scheffold                      The World Bank
Resident Representative               P.O. Box 146
N'djamena, Chad
China                               Edwin R. Lim                         The World Bank
Chief                                Xiyuan Hotel Compound
Building No. 3 (3rd floor)
Erligou Xi Jiao
Beijing. China
(mailing address: P.O. Box 9509)
Colombia                            P. Hari Prasad                       Banco Mundial
Resident Representative               Carrera 10, No. 86-21, Piso 3
Bogota D.E., Colombia
(mailing address: Apartado Aereo 10229)
Congo, People's Republic            Mamadou Dia                          The World Bank
of the                           Resident Representative               Avenue Amilcar Cabral
immeuble ARC (5erne etage)
Brazzaville, Congo
(mailing address: B.P. 14536)



Appendix 4        231
Ethiopia                            Michael Paysonb                       The World Bank
Resident Representative               l.B.T.E. New Telecommunications
Building (1st floor)
Churchill Road
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 5515)
Ghana                               Seung Hong Choi                       The World Bank
Resident Representative               69 Eighth Avenue Extension
Northridge Residential Area
Accra, Ghana
(mailing address: P.O. Box M27)
Guinea                              Vacant                                Banque mondiale
Cite des Nations, Villa 39
Conakry, Guinea
T,j,I, address: B.P. 1420)
Guinea-Bissau                       Yves J. Tencalla                       Banque mondiale
Resident Representative               Rue 7, Apt. 4
Bissau, Guinea-Bissau
(mailing address: P.O. Box 78)
India                               Jochen Kraske                         Resident Mission
Chiet                                 The World Bank
55 Lodi Estate
New Delhi 3, India
(mai ing address: P.O. Box 416)
Indonesia                           Attila Sonmez                         The World Bank
Director                              Jalan Rasuna Said, Kav. B-10 (Suite 301)
Kuningan, Jakarta 12940. Indonesia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 324/JKT)
Madagascar                          Jose A. Brontman                      Banque mondiale
Resident Representative               1, rue Patrice Lumumba
Antananarivo 101, Madagascar
(mailing address: Banque mondiale B P 4140)
Malawi                              John M. Malone                        The World Bank
Resident Representative               Development House
Li ongwe 3. Malawi
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30557)
Mali                                Monique P. Garrity                    The World Bank
Resident Representative               Immeub e CNAR
Rue Square Lumumba
Bamako, Mali
(mailing address: B.P. 1864)
Mauritania                          Sunil Mathrani                        The World Bank
Resident Representative               Vi la No. 30, ILOT A
Quartier Socotim
Nouakchott, Mauritania
(mailing address: B.P. 667)
(continued)



232      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank                                           (continued)                   Appendix 4
June 30, 1989
Mexico                             Marko Volic                           Banco Mundial
Resident Representative               Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Isabel La Catolica No. 51
Primer Piso
Colonia Centro
06006 Mexico City, D.F. Mexico
Nepal                               Nigel Roberts                        The World Bank
Resident Representative              Jyoti Bhawan, Kantipath
Kathmandu, Nepal
(mailing address: P.O. Box 798)
Niger                              Helmut Sanger                         The World Bank
Resident Representative              Immeuble BDRN
Niamey, Niger
(mailing address: Banque mondiale B.P. 12402)
Nigeria                             Tariq Husain                         The World Bank
Resident Representative               Plot 1309A
Karimu Kotun Street
Victoria Island
Lagos, Nigeria
(mailing address: P.O. Box 127)
Pakistan                            Luis de Azcarate                     The World Bank
Chief                                 House #36
Street 1, F6/3
Islamabad, Pakistan
(mailing address: P.O. Box 1025)
Philippines                         Rolando R. Arrivillaga               The World Bank
Resident Representative               Centra Bank of the Philippines
Multi-storey Building, Room 200
Roxas Boulevard
Manila, Philippines
Rwanda                              Melvin J. Loewen                     The World Bank
Resident Representative               Blvd. de la Revolution
BRD Building
Kigali, Rwanda
(mai ing address: P.O. Box 609)
Saudi Arabia                        Roger E. Rowec                       Resident Mission
Director                              The World Bank
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 5900)
Senegal                             Francois-Marie Patorn:               The World Bank
Resident Representative              Immeuble S.D.I.H.
3 Place de l'lndependance
Dakar, Senegal
Somalia                             Brian H. Falconer'                   The World Bank
Resident Representative              Savoy Centre (2nc floor)
Mogadishu, Soma ia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 1825)



Appendix 4              233
Sri Lanka                             Hari C. Aggarwat                       The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon
(DFOC) Build ng
1st Floor
73,15 Galle Road
Colombo 3, Sri Lanka
(mailing address: P.O. Box 1761)
Sudan                                 Abhay Deshpande                        The World Bank
Resident Representative                 AAAID Building
Block 9
East Khartoum, Sucan
(mailing address: P.O. Box 2211)
Tanzania                             Ian C. Porter                           The World Bank
Resident Representative                 N. C. Building (7th floor. B)
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
,   address: P.O. Box 2054)
Togo                                  Emmanuel Mbi                           The World Bank
Resident Representative                 169, rue du 13 janvier
Immeuble BTCI (8eme etage)
Lome, Togo
(mai ing address: B.P. 3915)
Turkey                                James Chatfey                          The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Ataturk Bulvari 211
Gama-Guris
Building Kat 6
06683 Kalvaklidere
Ankara, Turkey
Uganda                                Grant Slade                            The World Bank
Resident Representative                 P.O. Box 4463
Kampala, Uganda
Zaire                                Jerome Chevallier                       The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Building UZB
Avenue des Aviateurs
Kinshasa 1, Repub ic of Zaire
(mailing address: P C. Box 14816)
Zambia                                Uche G. Mbanefo                        The World Bank
Resident Representative                 CMAZ Bui ding
Ben Bella Road
Lusaka, Zambia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 35410)
Zimbabwe                              Mahmud A. Burney                       The Wor d Bank
Resident Representative                 CABS Centre (12th tloor)
Stanley Avenue
Harare. Zimbabwe
(mailing address: P.C. Box 2960)
a. Succeeded by Nobuaki Kemmochi as of June 30 1989.
b Succeeded by T. James Goering as of July 1 1989.
c Position vacant as ot July 7, 1989.
d. Succeeded by Luciano Borin as ot Ju y 1, 1989



U
The World Bank
Headquarters
1818 H Street, N.W -
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Telephone: (202) 477-1234
Facsimile: (202) 477-6391
Telex: WUI 64145 WORLDBANK
RCA 248423 WORLDBK
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON DC
European Office
66, avenue d'Iena
75116 Paris, France
Telephone (1) 40.69.30.00
Facsimile: (1) 47.20.19.66
Telex: 842-620628
Tokyo Office
Kokusai Building
1-1, Marunouchi 3-chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan
Telephone: (3) 214-5001
Facsimile: (3) 214-3657
Telex: 781-26838
[SSN 0252-2942
ISBN 0-8213-1300-2



