* ~  ~~~~~~~ -                      |- --






THE WORLD BANK
ANNUAL REPORT 1993
The World Bank
!1    Washington, D.C. 20433



2
Photo Credits
Cover: Stuiart Franklin for Magnum
Page 10: Antonia Macedo
Page 107: Curt Carnemnark
Page 115: Curt Carnemark
Page 121. Curt Carneniark
Page 127: Erik Borset
Page 135: Yosef Hadar
Page 139: Curt Carnemark
Cover:
A scene fromn the Sonapur rice market in the
Noakhali district of Bangladesh. Bangladesh liber-
alized grain-trading arrangements in 1992, hereby
increasinig incomes of smaliholder farmers.
Cover design by Joyce C. Petruzzelli
ISSN: 0252-2942
ISBN: 0-8213-2490-X



3
Letter of Transmittal
This Annual Report, which covers the pe-   staff of the Bank. They have been called upon
riod July 1, 1992, to June 30, 1993, has been   to respond to an exceptional volume and range
prepared by the executive directors of both the   of issues faced by an expanded. indeed a now
International Bank for Reconstruction and De-   almost universal, membership while maintain-
velopment (IBRD) and the International De-   ing commitments to ongoing programs. The
velopment Association (IDA) in accordance    board is grateful to the staff and expresses its
with the respective by-laws of the two institu-   profound appreciation.
tions. Lewis T. Preston, president of the IBRD  Annual reports for the International Finance
and IDA and chairman of the boards of exec-   Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment
utive directors, has submitted this Report,   Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the Interna-
together with accompanying administrative   tional Centre for Settlement of Investment
budgets and audited financial statements, to    Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.
the board of governors.
The directors are keenly aware that this has
been a year of extraordinary challenge to the
Executive Directors                         Alternates
Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf                         Ahmed M. Al-Ghannam
Faisal A. Al-Khaled                         Mohamed W. Hosny
Aris Othman                                 Jannes Hutagalung
Mohamed Benhocine                           Arshad Farooq
E. Patrick Coady                            Mark M. Collins, Jr.
John H. Cosgrove                            Bong-Hee Won
Boris G. Fedorov                            Alexander N. Doumnov
Fritz Fischer                               Harald Rehm
Nicolas Flafio                              Julio Nogues
Jean-Daniel Gerber                          Jan Sulmicki
Enzo Grilli                                 Fernando S. Carneiro
Eveline Herfkens                            Ileana lonescu
Bimal Jalan                                 M.A. Syed
Yasuyuki Kawahara                           Kiyoshi Kodera
Jean-Pierre Landau                          Jdr6me Haas
Jean-Pierre Le Bouder                       Ali Bourhane
Jorunn Maehlum                              Helga Jonsdottir
Pedro Malan                                 Marcela P. de Cartagena
O.K. Matambo                                Harry M. Mapondo
David Peretz                                David Stanton
Frank Potter                                Hubert Dean
Bernard Snoy                                Nurcan Akturk
Angel Torres                                Gabriel Castellanos
Wang Liansheng                              Zhang Shengman
August 5, 1993



4
The World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA
The World Bank is a multilateral develop-    ments. commercial banks, export-credit agen-
ment institution whose purpose is to assist   cies, and other multilateral institutions are
its developing member countries further their   increasingly being paired with World Bank
economic and social progress so that their   funds to cofinance projects. The World Bank
people may live better and fuller lives. The    also provides loans to help developing coun-
term "World Bank" refers to two legally and   tries adjust their economic policies and struc-
financially distinct entities: the International   tures in the face of structural problems that
Bank for Reconstruction and Development   threaten continuing development.
(IBRD) and the International Development As-   The  International  Finance  Corporation
sociation (IDA). The IBRD and IDA have   (IFC). an affiliate of the World Bank. seeks to
three related functions: to lend funds. to pro-   promote growth in the private sector of devel-
vide economic advice and technical assistance.   oping countries by mobilizing foreign and do-
and to serve as a catalyst to investment by    mestic capital to invest alongside its own funds
others.                                      in commercial enterprises.
The IBRD finances its lending operations     The  Multilateral  Investment Guarantee
primarily from borrowings in the world capital   Agency (MIGA), also an affiliate of the World
markets. IDA extends assistance to the poor-   Bank, was established in 1988 to encourage
est countries on easier terms, largely from    foreign direct investment in developing coun-
resources provided by its wealthier members.   tries by protecting investors from noncommer-
Funds from  such other sources as govern-   cial risk, especially risk of war or repatriation.



Contents    5
Contents
Letter of Transmittal 3
World Bank, the IFC, and MIGA 4
Glossary  7
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1993 11
Section One. The Executive Board 17
Oversight of Financial and Operating Programs 17
Operations Evaluation and Project Implementation 18
Review of Policy Proposals 18
Development Committee 21
Committees of the Executive Directors 21
Section Two. The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective 25
Industrialized Countries 25
Developing Countries 28
Trends in External Debt and Progress of Debt Strategies 30
Net Financial Flows and Access to Capital Markets 32
Primary-commodity Market Developments 33
Trends in World Trade 35
Section Three. The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993 37
Implementing the Bank's Poverty-reduction Strategy 37
Human-resource Development 42
The Environment 45
Private-sector Development 52
Changes in Housing Policy 54
Tenth Replenishment of IDA 56
Portfolio Management 60
Section Four. World Bank Finances 65
IBRD Financial Highlights 65
Financial Policies 65
Loans 66
Liquid-assets Management 67
Borrowings and Liability Management 67
IDA Finances 70
Cofinancing 70
Disbursements by Source of Supply 79
Section Five. World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID 85
Operations Evaluation 85
Internal Auditing 86
Economic Development Institute 87
Research at the World Bank 90
Technical Assistance 92



6   Contents
Interagency Cooperation 93
The Administrative Budget, Personnel, and Administration 99
International Finance Corporation 101
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 103
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes 104
Section Six. 1993 Regional Perspectives  105
Africa 105
East Asia and Pacific 113
South Asia 119
Europe and Central Asia 125
Latin America and the Caribbean 132
Middle East and North Africa 138
Section Seven. Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1993  145
Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1991-93 165
Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1993, by Region 166
IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and Region, June 30,
1993 168
Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1993, by Sector 170
Statement of IBRD Loans Approved during Fiscal Year 1993 176
Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1993 180
IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor, June 30, 1993
185
Financial Statements of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 189
Financial Statements of the International Development Association and the Special Fund
Administered by IDA 211
IBRD/IDA Appendices 227
1   Governors and Alternates of the World Bank  228
2    Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank and Their Voting Power 232
3    Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank  234
4    Offices of the World Bank  237
5    Development Committee Communiqiues. Fiscal 1993  243
Index 248
Boxes
Bank's Response to Changing Borrower Demands 12
3-1   Refining Country-assistance Strategies for Poverty Reduction  38
3-2   Old Commitments Fulfilled. New Ones Made  43
3-3  Investing in Health  46
3-4   The Bank's Role in the Electric Power Sector and in Energy Efficiency and
Conservation 49
3-5   Water-resources Management 50
3-6   Financial-sector Reform in Indonesia  55
3-7   Measuring the Bank's Development Effectiveness  61
3-8   Reporting on Portfolio Management in Fiscal Year 1992  63
4-1   Modifications in the IBRD's Negative-pledge Policy  66
6-1   Cotton Crisis in the Sahel 108
6-2   Trends in Income Distribution and Poverty  136



7
Glossary
Agenda 21  The main operational product of   Development Committee  This committee is
the United Nations Conference on Environ-    known formally as the Joint Ministerial Com-
ment and Development (UNCED). Agenda 21,   mittee of the Boards of Governors of the World
is an ambitious action plan covering over 100    Bank and the International Monetary Fund on
program  areas (climate, desertification. sus-   the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing
tainable agriculture, for example) integrating    Countries. Established in October 1974, the
environment and development, to be sup-   committee currently consists of twenty-two
ported by new and additional financial re-   members. generally Ministers of Finance, ap-
sources, improved access on favorable terms    pointed for periods of two years by one of the
to environmentally sound technology, and    countries or a group of countries that desig-
strengthened institutional capacity in develop-   nates a member of the Bank's or the Interna-
ing countries. States were called upon to pre-   tional Monetary Fund's board of executive
pare national sustainable development plans    directors. The committee is required to advise
outlining their own environmental problems as   and report to the boards of governors of the
well as their strategies, programs, and prior-   two institutions on all aspects of the broad
ities for implementing Agenda 21. UNCED    question of the transfer of real resources to
agreed that financing should be assembled to   developing countries and to make suggestions
support these programs through a variety of   for their implementation.
existing, rather than new, funding mecha-
nisms.                                       Dublin Statement The January 1992 "Interna-
tional Conference on Water and the Envi-
Central-bank facility  A facility used by the    ronment: Development Issues for the 21st Cen-
IBRD to raise short-term United States-dollar   tury" in Dublin called for new approaches to
debt by offering to central banks and other   the assessment. development, and manage-
government organizations of member coun-   ment of freshwater resources. The conference
tries a one-year, United States-dollar denomi-   report set out recommendations for action at
nated variable-rate instrument. The interest   local, national, and international levels based
rate is adjusted monthly on the yield of the    on four guiding principles. First, the effective
one-year U.S. Treasury bill plus a spread.   management of water resources demands a
holistic approach linking social and economic
Committee of the Whole  The Committee of   development with protection of natural ecosys-
the Whole is a committee made up of all  tems, including land and water linkages across
executive directors; it has traditionally served    catchment areas or groundwater aquifers; sec-
as a forum in which preliminary discussion of   ond, water development and management
issues takes place before they are taken up by    should be based on a participatory approach,
the executive board. It is also the forum in   involving users, planners, and policymakers at
which the executive directors act as a prepara-   all levels: third, women play a central part in
tory body for the work of the Development   the provision, management, and safeguarding
Committee.                                   of water; and fourth, water has an economic
value in all its competing uses and should be
Currency swaps  Currency swaps are used by   recognized as an economic good.
the IBRD as a liability-management tool and
essentially involve an exchange of a stream of   "Enhanced" Toronto terms  A menu of Paris
principal and interest payments in one cur-   Club concessions for low-income countries,
rency for a stream in another currency. The   initiated in 1991, comprises two options pro-
IBRD uses currency swaps to obtain borrow-    viding for deeper debt reduction plus the non-
ings in the ultimately desired "target" cur-   concessional option from  the old Toronto
rency at below cost of a market borrowing in   terms. The concessional options amount to 50
that currency.                               percent forgiveness in present-value terms on



8   Glossary
debt-service payments falling due during the    appoints a deputy, who is usually a top-level
consolidation period. Enhanced Toronto terms    civil servant from  the country's Ministry of
also provide for a third nonconcessional op-    Finance, Foreign Affairs, or from its bilateral
tion: consolidation at market rates, with a    aid agency. The replenishment agreements ne-
repayment period of twenty-five years. includ-    gotiated among the deputies are presented to
ing a fourteen-year grace period. This option    the executive directors of IDA, who, in turn,
was adopted by the United States and some    submit a report to the board of governors for
smaller creditor countries that were, at the    final decision. The IDA deputies meet as often
time, unable to adopt debt cancellation for    as necessary to discuss IDA replenishments
non-ODA debt.                                  and related matters.
Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS)    LIBOR  (London  Interbank  Offered  Rate)
FIAS was established in 1986 by the Interna-    LIBOR is the rate at which major banks in
tional Finance Corporation. It is now jointly    London are willing to lend in a specific cur-
operated by the IFC, the Multilateral Invest-   rency or currency unit to other banks. It is
ment Guarantee Agency, and the World Bank.    used as a base rate for many international
FIAS advises developing countries, at the re-   interest-rate transactions.
quest of their governments, on how to attract
productive foreign direct investment. After    Low-income countries  Countries with a GNP
studying the investment climate in a country,    per capita of $635 or less as of 1991.
FIAS helps officials or agencies responsible for
foreign investment define their objectives and    Middle-income countries  Countries with  a
develop the policies, regulations, and institu-    GNP per capita of more than $635 but less than
tions needed to encourage foreign direct in-    $7,911 as of 1991.
vestment that will be beneficial to the country.
FIAS also conducts research on issues raised    Negative-pledge clause  Negative-pledge clauses
in the course of its advisory work and orga-    are concerned with the granting of security
nizes seminars and conferences that bring to-   interests by a borrower over its assets to its
gether officials, foreign investors, and experts   creditors. By the terms of such a clause, the
to discuss issues related to foreign investment.   borrower agrees with a creditor or group of
creditors to restrictions on its granting, or
G-7 countries  Canada, France. Germany, It-   otherwise permitting to exist, securitv interests
aly, Japan. the United Kingdom, and the    in favor of other creditors. Negative-pledge
United States.                                 clauses are usually standard in Bank loan doc-
uments. They may be waived on a case-by-
Headroom   The IBRD's Articles of Agree-    case basis, however.
ment require that total debt outstanding and
disbursed, including guarantees. not exceed    Ofricial development assistance (ODA)  Finan-
the total value of subscribed capital, reserves.   cial aid to developing countries and multilat-
and surplus. This defines the IBRD's statutory    eral institutions provided by official agencies,
lending limit. The difference between that limit   or by their executive agencies. ODA is admin-
and actual total debt outstanding and disbursed    istered with the promotion of the economic
is known as "headroom." The adequacy of the    development and welfare of developing coun-
IBRD's headroom  is reviewed every three    tries as its main objective, is concessional in
years under current policy.                    character, and contains a grant element of at
least 25 percent.
Houston terms These refer to the major
change, introduced by the Paris Club at its    Paris Club  The Paris Club is the name given
September 1990 meeting, in the treatment of   to the ad hoc meetings of creditor governments
severely indebted middle-income countries.   that, since 1956, have arranged, when neces-
Debtor countries are able to repay consoli-   sary, for the renegotiation of debt owed to
dated ODA loans with twenty-year maturity,    official creditors or guaranteed  by  them.
including a ten-year grace period. Consoli-   (Debts to commercial banks are renegotiated
dated export credits and official loans other    with committees of the banks involved.) The
than ODA  will be repaid with fifteen-year    World Bank is not a member of the Paris Club.
maturity, including up to eight years' grace.
Social-action programs Social-action programs
IDA deputies  Representatives of IDA donor    and social funds consist of multisectoral oper-
countries at the negotiations on replenishments   ations that mobilize several sources of financ-
of IDA funds. Each of IDA's donor countries   ing to fund special interventions and targeted



Glossary   9
projects seeking to alleviate the social costs of   Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
adjustment. as well as poverty in general. The    Bank, the IFC, and MIGA provided the frame-
project components that typically get financed    work for technical cooperation between the
include public works, severance payments,    Bank Group and the Soviet Union and its
retraining, and schemes in nutrition, primary   republics during the transitional period prior to
health. and primary education. While the ob-   membership. Technical cooperation, provided
jectives and project content of social-action    on a grant basis, was funded by a $30 million
programs and social funds are similar. they   transfer from the IBRD's fiscal 1991 net in-
differ in their institutional set-up. Social funds    come. Only Belarus. Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan.
finance small, demand-driven subprojects and    and the Russian Federation signed technical
often bypass existing bureaucratic systems and    cooperation agreements. Commitments under
procedures: funding commitments are often   the program ceased in fiscal 1992.
based on the evaluation of project proposals
prepared according to predetermined selection    Toronto terms  Toronto terms refer to a menu
criteria. Social-action program subprojects are    of options that can be chosen to reduce official
typically  appraised  by  the  World  Bank.   debt in low-income, debt-distressed countries.
Whereas social funds are most often parastatal   The terms. agreed upon in September 1988
quasi-financial institutions, social-action pro-   (following agreement in principle at the eco-
grams generally cover a broader array of insti-   nomic summit held in Toronto three months
tutional arrangements, such as quasi-autono-    earlier), include reduced interest, very long
mous project units or integration into sectoral   grace and repayment periods (at commercial
ministries.                                   rates). or partial write-offs of debt-service ob-
ligations during the consolidation period (with
Social fund  (See social-action programs)    the rest rescheduled at commercial rates and
shorter maturities), or a combination of these
SPA-eligible country  Country eligibility is de-   options.
termined on the basis of poverty (countries
cannot be eligible for IBRD loans), indebted-    Trinidad terms  Trinidad terms represent a
ness (countries have to have projected debt-   deepening (over Toronto terms) of concession-
service ratios of 30 percent or more), and    ality in existing debt-relief measures. Proposed
efforts to adjust (countries have to be currently    by John Major. then United Kingdom Chancel-
implementing a policy-reform program that is   lor of the Exchequer. at the Commonwealth
endorsed and normally supported by the Bank    Finance Ministers' Conference in September
and the International Monetary Fund, and    1990, these terms would reduce the stock of
agreement has to be reached on a policy frame-   outstanding debt owed to Paris Club creditors
work paper).                                  by two thirds. An important aspect of the
proposed terms is that they would apply to the
Special drawing rights (SDRs) The special   entire stock of eligible debt rather than to the
drawing right is a reserve asset created in 1968    maturities falling due within a near-term con-
by the International Monetary Fund for use bv    solidation period.
its members and certain prescribed institu-
tions, among which are multilateral develop-    Vehicle currency  A currency in which the
ment banks and the Bank for International    Bank borrows and simultaneously enters into
Settlements. Its value is calculated daily by    a currency swap in order to convert the
using a weighted basket of the currencies of the    "vehicle"-currency liability into a liability de-
G-5 countries (France. Germany. Japan. the    nominated in another currency (a so-called
United Kingdom. and the United States).       "target" currency).
Technical Cooperation Agreement The agree-
ment, approved in October 1991, between the



10
Gl RL'S    i                                                     :
I -A~/
Stiet  ta omnt-upotdsho  ea   igtn_amia_rmasoilpito vie,    rtin r
graefo   inetn  moei  il'e>cto  hni  ov'



11
Overview of World Bank Activities
in Fiscal 1993
"Poverty  reduction,"  the  president and    value of IDA's ninth replenishment in real terms.
chairman of the executive board of the World    Donor negotiators agreed that IDA should con-
Bank said in April 1993, "must be the bench-    tinue to focus on three main objectives to sup-
mark against which [the Bank's] performance    port economic development in the poorest coun-
as a development institution is judged." The    tries: poverty reduction, economic adjustment
Bank's poverty-reduction strategy remains un-    and growth, and environmental protection and
changed: to promote a pattern of growth that    improvement.
enables the poor to participate through their       Working with its borrowers, the Bank is
labor and to support investment in the poor    increasingly placing its two-part poverty-re-
through expanded access to health, education,    duction strategy at the center of its overall
and other social services.                        country-assistance strategies. It is using all
The international community confirmed the    available  instruments-the  policy  dialogue.
focus of the Bank's poverty-reduction strategy    lending operations, and analytical work-to
during the past vear by reaching an agree-    ensure that the strategy is implemented.
ment on a tenth replenishment of the Interna-       As documented in a recent report to the
tional Development Association's (IDA) re-    executive directors, the Bank is making tangi-
sources (IDA-10) for the period fiscal 1994-96.    ble progress in  implementing  its poverty-
The replenishment. equivalent to SDR13 bil-   reduction strategy. A crucial element of its
lion (or $18 billion equivalent) maintains the    poverty-reduction efforts is the formulation of
Operational and Financial Overview, Fiscal 1989-93
(millions of US dollars unless otherwise noted; fiscal years)
Item                                  1989         1990        1991         1992         1993
IBRD
Commitmentsa                          16,433      15,180       16,392       15,156       16,945
Gross disbursementsa                  11,310      13,859       11,431       11,666       12,942
Net disbursementsa                     1,921       5,717        2,090        1,818        2,425
New medium- to long-term
borrowings                          9.767       11,481       10,883       11,789       12,676
Net income                             1.094       1,046        1,200        1,645        1,130
Subscribed capital                   115,668     125,262      139,120      152,248      165,589
Statutory lending limit             125.429      137,046      152.327      168,369      183,312
Loans outstanding                    77,942       89,052       90,638      100.810      104,451
Keys ratios
Loans outstanding as a percentage
of lending limit                       62           65           59          60           57
Interest coverage ratio                 1.17        1.17         1.17         1.24         1.16
Liquidity ratio (percent)                52           47          51           48           48
Reserves-to-loans ratio                 10.2        10.8         11.2         11.5         11.4
IDA
Commitments                           4,934        5,522        6.293        6,550        6,751
Gross disbursementSb                  3,597        3,845        4,549        4,765        4.946
Net disbursementsb                    3,404        3,628        4,274        4,441        4,580
a. Excludes loans to the IFC.
b. Includes disbursements from the Special Fund.



12    Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1993
The Bank's Response to Changing Borrower Demands
In recent years, a growing number of countries    ing such activities. The Mediterranean Environ-
have restructured their economies and adminis-    mental Technical Assistance Program. Asia's
trations. Others are now in the process of imple-    Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Pro-
menting structural reforms. In addition, support   gram, and Africa's Agricultural Services Initia-
to countries changing from command to market   tive are prime examples of this new approach.
economies, as well as those in political transition.  * Bank lending has moved increasingly from
has entailed important shifts in the Bank's work.    clearly defined hardware activities (construction
At the same time, the demand for Bank services    and irrigation, for example) into less tangible
has become more complex for many borrowers,   issues, such as institutional development, that
The Bank's response to these changing circum-    lead to enhanced local capacity to face develop-
stances can be illustrated in several ways.    ment problems. These issues tvpically require
* The comprehensiveness of Bank services    significant staff inputs at both the design and
has increased compared with a few years ago.    supervision stages. demand relatively small loan
Better linkages are being sought between macro-    amounts (primarily to finance technical assis-
economic and sector reform and poverty reduc-   tance), and thereby tend to be costly in terms of
tion, and new development challenges (the envi-   resources per dollar lent. Their potential impact
ronment, for example) are being integrated into    on long-term sustainable development, however,
mainstream Bank operational work. Poverty as-    can be significant.
sessments are new tools extensively used across  * As the macro reforms have matured in many
the Bank to quantify the extent and nature of    borrowers (Chile, Indonesia, Mexico. and Mo-
poverty and identify constraints to poverty re-   rocco, for example), there has been a sizable shift
duction. Similarly, more comprehensive analyses    from adjustment lending with a commensurate
of private-sector development requirements is   need to build investment pipelines. Much of this
being undertaken throughout the Bank.          effort has been placed on developing human-
* Regional approaches to development prob-    resource projects as a direct attempt to alleviate
lems are beginning to be promoted, follow-    poverty.
ing the pivotal role of donor resources in launch-
country-specific "poverty assessments." The    improve its capacity to take account of social.
findings of poverty assessments are helpful in    cultural, resettlement, and rehabilitation issues
designing assistance strategies in support of   in project design and implementation. Supervi-
government poverty-reduction efforts. During    sion missions were undertaken of approxi-
fiscal 1993. nine poverty assessments were    mately 135 projects in the Bank's active port-
completed, increasing their number to twenty-    folio with resettlement components to ensure
seven. Completed poverty assessments have    that project implementation was being carried
caused a number of the Bank's country-assis-    out consistent with loan and credit agreements
tance strategies to be modified in important    and with Bank guidelines.
ways that more effectively target assistance to     One of the principal ways in which the Bank
the poor and disadvantaged groups.                helps member countries to improve their envi-
World Development Report /992 identified    ronmental management is by assisting in the
key linkages that exist between development    elaboration and implementation of national
and the environment. In line with the report's    environmental-action  plans (EAPs). EAPs,
conclusions, efforts to encourage borrowers to    which provide a basis for the Bank's dialogue
capitalize on the positive links between pov-    with borrowers on environmental issues, de-
erty alleviation and sound environmental poli-   scribe a country's major environmental con-
cies-while redressing the environmental dam-    cerns and problems and formulate policies and
age arising from  poorly  conceived  growth    actions to address whatever problems are iden-
strategies-figure prominently among the pri-   tified. By the end of fiscal 1993. a substantial
orities for the Bank.                             number of IDA-borrowing countries had com-
During fiscal 1993. the Bank elaborated en-    pleted. or were in advanced stages of complet-
vironmental strategies for several kev regions    ing. their EAPs, as required under the terms of
and countries: expanded its research on a    the ninth agreement to replenish IDA's re-
broad range of environmental topics; contin-    sources (IDA-9): EAPs are under preparation
ued to integrate environmental concerns in its   in virtually all other IDA countries and are
country-policy dialogue, economic and sector    expected to be completed during fiscal 1994.
work, and lending operations: and undertook a       Investment in human resources is at the
series of internal reviews of its operations to    heart of the Bank's development-assistance



Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1993    13
World Bank Adjustment Operations, Fiscal 1993
(millions of US dollars)
World Bank
financing
Country                              Proiect                        IBRD       IDA        Total
Sector-adjustment loans
Albania         Agriculture-sector adjustment                        -         20.0       20.0
Argentina       Public-enterprise reform 11                       300.0         -        300.0
Bangladesh      Industry-sector adjustment 11                        -        100.0      100.0
Bangladesh      Industry-sector adjustment 11 (supplement)           -         3.5         3.5
Honduras        Energy-sector adjustment (supplement)                -         33.1       33.1
India           Social safety nets                                   -        500.0      500.0
India           External sector and investment-liberalization
program                                         300.0         -       300.0
Jamaica         Private-sector development                          75.0        -         75.0
Kenya           Education-sector adjustment (supplement)             -        52.1        52.1
Madagascar      Public-sector adjustment (supplement)                -          1.4        1.4
Mauritania      Public-enterprise sector adjustment (supplement)     -          2.2        2.2
Peru            Privatization adjustment                          250.0         -        250.0
Poland          Agriculture-sector adjustment                     300.0         -        300.0
Sri Lanka       Public manufacturing enterprise adjustment
(supplement)                                      -          5.8        5.8
Tanzania        Financial-sector adjustment (supplement)             -         11.3       11.3
Uganda          Financial-sector adjustment                          -        100.0      100.0
Zambia          Privatization and industrial reform (supplement)     -         20.9       20.9
Zambia          Privatization and industrial reform 11               -        100.0      100.0
Total                                                          1,225.0      950.3    2.175.3
Structural-adjustment loans
Argentina       Financial-sector adjustment                       400.0         -        400.0
Bolivia         Structural adjustment (supplement)                   -         11.1       11.1
Costa Rica      Structural adjustment III                          100.0        -        100.0
Ethiopia        Structural adjustment                                -        250.0      250.0
Ghana           Private investment promotion (supplement)            -          6.5        6.5
Guatemala       Economic modernization                             120.0        -        120.0
Guinea          Structural adjustment 11 (supplement)                -          0.1        0.1
Guyana          Structural-adjustment (supplement)                   -          3.5        3.5
Malawi          Entrepreneurship development and drought
recovery (supplement)                             -          5.9        5.9
Nicaragua       Economic recovery (supplement)                       -          8.5        8.5
Peru            Structural adjustment (supplement)                 150.0        -        150.0
Philippines     Economic integration                              200.0         -        200.0
Poland          Enterprise and financial-sector adjustment        450.0         -        450.0
Sierra Leone    Reconstruction import (supplement)                   -         0.3         0.3
Uganda          Structural adjustment (supplement)                   -          1.4        1.4
Zimbabwe        Structural adjustment 11                             -        125.0      125.0
Total                                                          1,420.0      412.3    1,832.3
Grand total                                                        2,645.0    1,362.6    4,007.6
NOTE: Totals do not include S450 million to Argentina for debt and debt-service reduction.
- Zero.
strategy for the 1990s. It addresses the objec-    enhancing the contribution of women to devel-
tives of poverty reduction through intensified     opment and building national capacity to de-
support of effective primary-level services and    sign and implement sound environmental poli-
lays the foundation  for efficient economic    cies.
growth through investments in human capital          The rapidly increasing involvement of the
and transfers of scientific and technological    Bank in lending for social and human develop-
knowledge and practice. It is also essential to    ment provides a good indication of the growing



14   Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1993
awareness of social programs as good invest-   ongoing projects and at achieving an appropri-
ments. Bank lending for human-development   ate balance between implementation and the
programs increased from an average of $1.1    preparation of new operations. Following sev-
billion a year in fiscal 1987-89 to $3 billion in   eral discussions on the task-force report, the
1990-92. and to $3.8 billion in fiscal 1993.   Bank's executive directors endorsed a pro-
Investment lending for human-resource devel-   gram of actions designed to strengthen portfo-
opment accounted for 16 percent of total Bank    lio-performance management. The set of ac-
lending in fiscal 1993. up from 5 percent in the   tions-some mandatory, some discretionary-
early 1980s.                                 is based on  new  and existing practices,
Three priority areas underlie the Bank's   supported by more efficient and client-oriented
operations in support of private-sector devel-   business practices and processes, and intended
opment: systemic reform to improve the busi-   to progressively reorient the Bank culture
ness environment and promote entrepreneurial   towards more effective and consistent empha-
activity: public-enterprise restructuring and    sis on the sustainable development impact of
privatization; and financial-sector develop-    Bank-assisted operations.
ment.                                           Another assessment, this one of the Bank's
Together with member governments and the    deployment of professional skills, led to an
International Finance Corporation. the Bank is   organizational restructuring  that aimed at
carrying out private-sector assessments that   providing enhanced support and leadership in
aim at improving Bank Group assistance to the    key poverty-related thematic areas (human-
private sector. By the end of the fiscal year,   resource development, finance and private-
eleven assessments had been essentially com-    sector development, and environmentally sus-
pleted. The Bank supports public-sector re-   tainable development) and at consolidating
structuring or privatization in the context of its   research activities to improve their coordina-
broader goals of economic development and    tion across macroeconomic, thematic, and sec-
poverty reduction. During 1991 and 1992, some    toral lines. Three new vice presidencies were
110 investment operations and fifty-nine ad-   established for the three thematic areas. They
justment operations with components address-   are charged with providing policy guidance,
ing privatization or the restructuring of public   operational support, and the dissemination of
enterprises had been approved. Particularly    "best practices" to the Bank's six operational
noteworthy was assistance provided to Rus-   regions. and with ensuring that the Bank is
sia's mass privatization program. involving    equipped to provide leadership-fiom a global
some 24,000 enterprises, through a $90 million    perspective-on its thematic and sectoral ob-
Bank loan.                                    jectives.
In fiscal 1993. a number of institutional as-  Fiscal year 1993 saw the Bank welcome
sessments were conducted to enhance the    eleven additional republics of the former So-
Bank's potential to assist its members more    viet Union. as well as the two remaining Baltic
effectively. Chief among them was an assess-   states, as members. The Bank geared up to
ment of the Bank's portfolio by the Task Force   face the challenges of assisting the countries of
on Portfolio Management, chaired by Willi   Europe and Central Asia in transition through
Wapenhans, a senior manager of the Bank with   additions to regional staff, including the estab-
many years of operational experience. The   lishment of resident missions in Albania. Ka-
task force found that although more than 75    zakhstan, Latvia. Ukraine. and Uzbekistan
percent of Bank-assisted  projects demon-   (see accompanying box on the Bank's re-
strated good performance during implementa-    sponse to changing borrower demands). The
tion, there had been a decline in the quality of   Bank deployed its resources so as to maintain
the portfolio over the past decade. The decline    maximum flexibility. Project preparation, as
was caused in part, the task force concluded,   well as economic and sector work, has been
by international economic and country-specific    designed to promote reform and to mobilize
factors. It was also caused in part, however. by    resources rapidly in support of reform efforts.
factors more specific to the Bank. chief among    In Poland, for example. the Bank accelerated
them being the strong attention the Bank paid   the preparation of adjustment operations in the
to new lending commitments at the expense of   areas of agriculture and financial-sector and
effective implementation following project ap-   enterprise reform. Financial-sector adjustment
proval.                                       operations were being prepared in Romania
The task force concluded that the status of   and Bulgaria. and activities simultaneously ad-
the Bank's portfolio could be improved and its   dressing enterprise and financial-sector issues
services to borrowers strengthened through a    were initiated in Kazakhstan, Kvrgyzstan,
wide variety of changes aimed at giving in-   Russia, and the Baltic countries. An important
creased attention to the implementation of   lending program  was begun in Central and



Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1993   15
IBRD and IDA Lending to the Poorest Countries, Fiscal 1984-93
(US$ millions)
F   IDA amount                     IBRD amount
4,126.6   5,1078   5,368.6   5,999.3   5,792.5    5,921.3
5,838.8     7,28.5       4,114.0       4,860.7      4,964.2       4,035.3
1984-88        1989         1990          1991          1992          1993
annual
average        Total        Total         Total        Total          Total
9.965.5      12,436.2      9,482.6      10,860.0      10,756.8       9,956.6
Note: The poorest countries are defined as those with a per capita income of $635 or less in 1991
U.S. dollars.
Eastern Europe to support the system of social   $450 million, was approved in support of Ar-
assistance, and a special "policy hub" was    gentina's debt and debt-service reduction pro-
established in Budapest to focus on social   gram.
safety net issues across countries.             Assistance to the poorest countries-those
Total lending to countries of the Europe    with a per capita gross national product of $635
and Central Asia region during fiscal 1993    or less (in terms of 1991 United States dollars)
amounted to $3,844 million and included initial   totaled $9,956.6 million: $4,035.3 million from
loans to Albania. Armenia. Estonia. Kyr-   the IBRD and $5,921.3 million from IDA (see
gyzstan, Latvia. Lithuania. Moldova. Russia,   accompanying figure).
and Ukraine.                                    Net disbursements from the IBRD to mem-
Lending by the Bank to all borrowers during    ber countries totaled $2,425 million, up $607
fiscal 1993 amounted to $23,695.9 million:    million from the previous year's total. IDA's
$16,944.5 million by the IBRD and $6,751.4   net disbursements were up $139 million, to
million by IDA. Adjustment lending totaled    $4.580 million.
$4,008 million, or 17 percent of total commit-  Fiscal 1993 saw the Debt-reduction Facility
ments (see accompanying table). One loan, for   for IDA-only Countries, in partnership with



16   Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 1993
cofinancing assistance from a number of bilat-   Tajikistan joined on June 4, 1993. and the
eral donors, sharply increase its operations.    Federated States of Micronesia joined on
The facility was established in 1990 in recogni-   June 24, 1993. The Czech and Slovak Federal
tion of the absence of adequate mechanisms    Republic (Czechoslovakia) ceased to be a
for easing the burden of external commercial   member and was succeeded by the Czech
debt owed by IDA-only countries. The facility    Republic and the Slovak Republic effective
was financed by the transfer to it of $100   January 1. 1993. The Socialist Federal Repub-
million of the IBRD's net income for fiscal   lic of Yugoslavia (Yugoslavia) ceased to be a
1989. Facility resources are made available on    member and was succeeded by Croatia and
a grant basis-normally up to a limit of $10    Slovenia effective February 25. 1993. bringing
million to any one country-to allow for the   total membership in the IBRD to 176. At the
maximum possible impact in reducing a coun-   end of the fiscal year. action was pending on
try's external commercial debt.              membership in the IBRD for Bosnia-Herze-
Five operations, totaling about $45 million in   govina, Eritrea. Former Yugoslav Republic of
facility  funds, have  been  completed-for    Macedonia, and the Federal Republic of Yugo-
Mozambique and Niger in fiscal 1991 and for   slavia.
Bolivia, Guyana, and Uganda in fiscal 1993. At  Kazakhstan became a member of IDA on
an average cost of $0.12 per dollar of debt.   July 23. 1992, Latvia became a member on
these operations have extinguished 89 percent   August II. 1992, Kyrgyzstan became a mem-
of the commercial debt of these countries.   ber on September 24. 1992, Uzbekistan be-
Facility operations are currently under prepa-   came a member on September 24. 1992. Portu-
ration for Albania, Nicaragua, Sao Tome and    gal became a member on December 29. 1992,
Principe, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, and Zambia.   the Marshall Islands became a member on
The IBRD  borrowed  the equivalent of   January 19, 1993. Tajikistan became a member
$12.676 million in the world's financial mar-   on June 4. 1993. and the Federated States of
kets. Net income was $1,130 million.         Micronesia became a member on June 24.
Lithuania joined the IBRD on July 6, 1992,   1993. Czechoslovakia ceased to be a member
Belarus joined on July 10, 1992, Kazakhstan    and was succeeded by the Czech Republic and
joined on July 23, 1992, the Republic of Geor-   the Slovak Republic effective January 1, 1993.
gia joined on August 7. 1992. Latvia joined on    Yugoslavia ceased to be a member and was
August 11. 1992, Moldovajoined on August 12.   succeeded by Croatia and Slovenia effective
1992. Ukraine joined on September 3. 1992.   February 25, 1993. bringing total membership
Armenia joined on September 16, 1992. Azer-   in IDA to 152. At the end of the fiscal year,
baijan joined on September 18. 1992, Kyr-   action was pending on membership in IDA for
gyzstan joined on September 18, 1992, Uz-   Armenia, Eritrea, Georgia, Moldova, Namibia,
bekistan joined  on  September 21, 1992,   Turkmenistan. Ukraine, and the Federal Re-
Turkmenistan joined on September 22, 1992,   public of Yugoslavia.



17
Section One
The Executive Board
Under the Articles of Agreement of the    sources for the coming year. Second, through
Bank. all the powers of the Bank are vested in   its review of evaluations of completed Bank
a board of governors, consisting of one gover-   projects and the Bank's experience in individ-
nor from each member country. With the ex-    ual sectors and with particular policies, the
ception of certain powers specifically reserved    board ensures that the Bank and member coun-
to them  by the Articles of Agreement, the   tries can benefit from the lessons of experi-
governors of the Bank have delegated their   ence. Finally, through its review of specific
authority to a board of executive directors that   policy proposals, either annually (for example.
performs its duties on a full-time basis at the   the allocation of net income, staff compensa-
Bank's headquarters. The size of the board   tion. the environment) or periodically (for ex-
was increased on November 1, 1992 from    ample, the Bank's financial policies, lending
twenty-two to twenty-four executive directors   terms, sectoral priorities), the board deter-
to take into account the expanded membership    mines the direction of Bank policies.
of the Bank. As provided for in the Articles of  In addition, through its approval of lending
Agreement, five of the executive directors are    operations and its review  of the Bank's
appointed by the five members having the    country-assistance strategies, the board over-
largest number of shares of capital stock, while   sees the Bank's lending program.
the rest are elected by the governors represent-  Since December 1992, the board has worked
ing the other member countries. Each execu-    under new procedures that are intended to
tive director appoints an alternate. Formal   strengthen its role in policy matters while, at
votes by the executive directors are rare since   the same time, allowing for more lending oper-
most decisions of the board are reached by    ations to be adopted under streamlined proce-
consensus.                                    dures.
The president of the Bank is the chairman of   Oversight of Financial and
the executive directors. The president is also
the chief of the operating staff of the Bank and    Operating Programs
conducts, under the direction of the executive  In fulfilling its responsibilities to oversee the
directors, the ordinary business of the Bank.   IBRD and IDA financial and operating pro-
The executive directors are responsible for the    grams. the executive directors approved, at the
conduct of the general operations of the Bank.   start of the fiscal year and against the back-
which includes deciding on Bank policy in the    ground of a borrowing plan, resolutions autho-
framework of the Articles of Agreement and    rizing borrowings and liability management for
approving all loan and credit proposals.      the full fiscal year. This program, which was
The executive directors are also responsible   reviewed by the board on a quarterly basis.
for presenting to the board of governors an    was carried out according to agreed broad
audit of accounts, an administrative budget.   parameters. In accordance with the simplified
the Annutal Report on the operations and poli-   budget-review cycle endorsed by the board in
cies of the World Bank. and any other matters   fiscal 1992. the executive directors met on
that, in their judgment require submission to   three occasions to deal with various aspects of
the board of governors. Matters may be sub-   the budget process. In mid year, the executive
mitted to the board of governors at its annual   directors met as a Committee of the Whole to
meetings or at any time during the year.      discuss the medium-term  planning directions
The executive board exercises its authority.   (fiscal 1994-96) for the Bank. Near the end of
under the Articles of Agreement. in three   the fiscal year, the board approved the fiscal
general areas. First, through its annual over-   year 1994 operating budget and set indicative
sight of the financial and operating programs.   IBRD lending for fiscal 1994 at between $17
and administrative budgets, the board deter-   billion and $19.5 billion, with an indicative IDA
mines the allocation of financial and staff re-   lending program of 5.2 billion in special draw-



18   The Executive Board
ing rights (SDRs). They also participated in a    operations, sector policies, development eco-
colloquium  with senior management during    nomics, and administration.
which views were exchanged on the con-           Finiance. In fiscal year 1993. the board was
straints faced by the Bank in its lending pro-    particularly concerned with issues related to
gram.                                          IDA, especially those related to the associa-
The executive board also considered the    tion's tenth replenishment (IDA-10). In the
allocation of net income from fiscal year 1992    months preceding the final agreement on IDA-
and approved the addition of $250 million of    10. the board received four briefings on the
net income of the IBRD to the general reserve    status of the IDA deputies' negotiations. When
so as to achieve the IBRD's reserves target and    the negotiations were completed. the board
to cover the estimated cost of a waiver-for all   approved the final report-Additions to IDA
payment periods beginning in fiscal 1993-of    Resources: Tenth Replenishment-and sub-
thirty-five basis points on the interest rate    mitted it. without meeting, to the board of
charged to those borrowers that have serviced    governors of the association for a vote.' The
all their loans from  the IBRD  in a timely   report was subsequently approved by the
manner. The executive directors also recom-    Bank's governors. The executive board also
mended to the governors that the equivalent of   reviewed the status of ongoing IDA operations
$300 million in SDRs be transferred to IDA     in a report on the association's policies. oper-
during the year. The remaining $1,095 million    ations, and finances in the second year (fiscal
was allocated to the surplus account, including    1992) of the ninth replenishment.
a further $375 million equivalent to be trans-   The board considered a proposal to intro-
ferred to IDA when the tenth replenishment of   duce a pilot program of single-currency loans
the association becomes effective.             to respond to the needs expressed by some
borrowers for a choice of terms to help reduce
Operations Evaluation and                      the currency and interest-rate risks attached to
Project Implementation                         their IBRD loans.' Although the currency-pool
In order to fulfill its responsibility to review    loan would remain predominant, the board
project evaluations and proposals for future    approved the pilot program, limited to the
evaluation activities, the board continued to    equivalent of $3 billion over two years. that
give particular attention to the Operations    would offer borrowers single-currency loans in
Evaluation Department (OED). The OED. un-    United States dollars, yen, deutsche mark,
der the direction of a director-general. is linked    French francs, pounds sterling, or in a combi-
administratively to the Bank's president, but is   nation of these currencies.
directly responsible to the executive directors.  As in recent years. the board continued to be
The board considered the OED report on its   concerned with issues related to the IBRD's
work program and staff budget for fiscal 1993.   practices with respect to managing its portfolio
the current status of the department's work,    and to countries in arrears. In a series of
and the report on operations evaluation. The    meetings, the executive directors considered
executive board also discussed the OED's an-   the IBRD's fiscal 1993 provisioning and re-
nual review of evaluation results and agreed    serve requirements and approved raising pro-
that the review should be published for distri-   visions to 3 percent of disbursed and outstand-
bution outside the Bank.                       ing loans and the present value of guarantees,
In addition. the executive directors consid-    accumulating provisions at 3 percent of the
ered the "Annual Report on Portfolio Perfor-    growth in the overall portfolio, and increasing
mance" for fiscal 1992. which has replaced the    the reserves-to-loans target to the 13 percent-
"Annual Report on Project Implementation    to-14 percent range for fiscal 1994-95, subject
and Supervision".' There was broad agree-   to annual reviews.4
ment that the country focus of the report was    In addition to considering these specific fi-
useful in assessing operations under implemen-    nancial policies, the executive directors fol-
tation. It was agreed that future analysis of   lowed closely the status of the IBRD's borrow-
operations under implementation would be    ing program through regular market briefings
deepened further and that an approach paper    and quarterly reviews of funding-operations
for the following year's report would be taken    reports.
up by the executive board's Joint Audit Com-     Operationis. In fiscal year 1993, the execu-
mittee.                                        tive board dealt with several issues fundamen-
Review of Policv Proposals
The executive board reviewed several policy    2 For details, see page 63.
-For details. see pages 5S60.
proposals during the fiscal year covering most    3For details, see page 65.
areas of Bank activities, including finance,   4 For details, see page 65.



Review of Policy Proposals  19
tal to the Bank's operational priorities and     The role of the environment in the Bank's
strategies. A central concern of the board was    operations remained an important issue for the
the status of the management and performance    board. The executive directors discussed the
of the Bank's portfolio. Beginning with con-    annual report on the Bank's environmental
sideration of an internal task-force report   activities covering fiscal year 1992 and agreed
on portfolio management, the board consid-   that the report, as modified at the meeting,
ered. over a period of many months, different    would be transmitted to the Development
elements of the Bank's portfolio manage-    Committee for information and would be pub-
ment-effective implementation, portfolio per-   lished. The board also held a seminar on the
formance and country-assistance strategies, in-   first annual review of the experience with the
ternal staffing  and  budgetary  issues, the    environmental-assessment process, which was
evaluation function, and concrete steps for   formally initiated by the Bank in October,
follow-up action.5                              1989.' The board was also briefed on the par-
The board reaffirmed the importance of pov-   ticipants' meetings held in December 1992 and
erty reduction as an integrating theme in nearly    May 1993 of the Global Environment Facility.
all Bank assistance in its discussion of a prog-    The board considered in a series of informal
ress report on implementing the Bank's pover-    meetings, briefings. and board meetings the
ty-reduction strategy.6                        status of the implementation of the Bank-
In the area of private-sector development,   assisted Sardar Sarovar (Narmada) Projects in
the executive directors met as a Committee of   India and subsequent actions related to envi-
the Whole to discuss a report on the legal   ronment and resettlement issues on which con-
framework for the treatment of foreign invest-   tinued Bank involvement hinged.'
ment. This document, which was prepared by       The board carefully followed the develop-
an internal task force established by the Bank's    ments in the international economic and polit-
president in response to a request of the De-   ical environment. Throughout the year. the
velopment Committee, was aimed at providing    board held briefings, seminars, and regular
host countries with information on the essen-    meetings on developments in the countries of
tial legal requirements of a secure and predict-   the former Soviet Union and the Bank's assis-
able investment climate. In order to further   tance strategies to those countries, was briefed
strengthen the Bank Group's activities in pro-    on energy work and the development of new
moting foreign direct investment, the execu-    aid-coordination groups for countries in the
tive directors of the Bank (and the IFC and    Europe and Central Asia region, and held a
MIGA, as well) approved the business plan    seminar on trade issues affecting the countries
and fiscal 1993 budget for the Foreign Invest-   of the former Soviet Union.
ment Advisory Service (FIAS) as a program        The board also followed the development
jointly administered by the three institutions    strategies of many  member countries by,
that make up the World Bank Group. The    among other things, reviewing the country-
directors also discussed, as a Committee of the    assistance strategies of fifty-one IBRD  and
Whole, the role, activities. and priorities of the    IDA borrowers. The directors were also regu-
Bank's Cofinancing and Financial Advisory   larlv provided information on the activities and
Services (CFS). whose mission is to strengthen    progress of the increasing number of consulta-
the Bank's role in catalyzing financial resource    tive and aid groups chaired by the Bank at the
flows to developing countries from  external   request of the recipient countries (see Table
sources. both official and private.            1-1) and on the meetings of the Consultative
The board examined the Bank's negative-    Group for International Agricultural Research.
pledge policy with respect to lending for in-    The board also took up the membership issue
vestments and, given the special situation of   of the former Czechoslovakia and former So-
the countries in transition to a market economy    cialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and
approved a proposal permitting the Bank to   recommended the succession of membership
grant a general waiver of the negative-pledge    of new states. In addition. the board held a
clause on a country-by-country basis for all   seminar on Argentina's successful privatiza-
transactions falling within prescribed parame-   tion program. Directors also approved a spe-
ters.'                                         cial emergency-assistance grant to aid relief
In the area of adjustment lending, the board    efforts in Somalia that included an exceptional
built on its consideration. in fiscal 1992, of the
third report on adjustment lending by review-
ing staff operational directives on adjustment  For details, see pages 60-64.
lending that provide an overview of adjustment    v For details, see page 66.
lending and its general rationale and set out m  For details, see page 48.
detail operational processes and procedures.    For details, see page 48.



20    The Executive Board
Table 1-1. Aid Coordination Group Meetings Chaired by the World Bank
in Fiscal 1993
(consortia. consultative groups. and aid groups)
Date                                          Country                                 Location
1992
July 16-17                    Indonesia consultative group                          Paris
October 28-30                  Bolivia consultative group                           Paris
November 23-24                 Ethiopia consultative group                          Paris
December 2-3                   Zimbabwe consultative group                          Paris
December 8-10                  Mozambique consultative group                        Paris
December 14                    Kazakhstan consultative group                        Paris
December 15                    Kyrgyzstan consultative group                        Paris
December 16                    Azerbaijan pre-consultative group                    Paris
December 16                    Uzbekistan pre-consultative group                    Paris
1993
January 28-29                  Jordan consultative group                            Paris
April I                        El Salvador consultative group                       Paris
April 2                        Nicaragua consultative group                         Paris
April 6-7                      Zambia consultative group                            Paris
April 27-28                    Bangladesh aid group                                 Paris
May 10-11                      Romania consultative group                           Brussels
May 12-13                      Bulgaria consultative group                          Brussels
May 14                         Caribbean Group for Cooperation in                   Barbados
Economic Development ad hoc
advisory committee
May 24                         Belarus pre-consultative group                       Paris
May 25                         Armenia pre-consultative group                       Paris
May 27-28                      Uganda consultative group                            Paris
June 1-2                       Papua New Guinea consultative group                  Hong Kong
June 8-9                       Russia consultative group                            Paris
June 18                        Sri Lanka aid group                                  Paris
June 21-22                     Peru consultative group                              Paris
June 24-25                     Ghana consultative group                             Paris
June 29-30                     Indonesia consultative group                         Paris
NOTE: The meeting of the Pakistan consortium. scheduled for April 22-23, was postponed.
contribution of $10 million to the World Food    included reports on the Bank's role in the
Programme to make more effective efforts to    electric-power sector,"' in housing,"' and in
reduce loss of life and provide the basis for    water-resources management.'2 and on imple-
economic recovery, as well as a contribution of    mentation  experience of the  'training-and-
$7 million to the United Nations Children's    visit" agricultural-extension system.
Fund and $3 million to the World Health             In recognition of the importance of the inter-
Organisation for medicines, medical services,    national economic environment on develop-
equipment, and logistical support.                ment prospects, the board discussed reports on
In addition to approving all IBRD loans and    the global economic prospects of developing
IDA credits, the board monitored the progress    countries, was briefed on the contents of the
of the Bank's overall lending program through     Bank publication, World Debt Tables, and
regular briefings with senior management. In    sponsored a two-day colloquium on the lessons
addition, the board held semiannual discus-    of development that could be learned from the
sions of its own work program, as recom-    experience of the East Asian economies. The
mended by the Executive Directors' Steering    board also considered the outline and final
Committee, covering fiscal year 1993.             draft of World Development Report 1993.
Sector policies and development economics.
In regular board sessions, meetings of the
Committee of the Whole, and in seminars. a         ,For detais, see page 49.
number of sector reports covering Bank poli-       ' For details, see page 54.
cies and "best practice" were reviewed. These      2 For details, see page 50.



Committees of the Executive Directors  21
which examined the interplay between human    holders in overseeing the soundness of the
health, health policy, and economic develop-    Bank's financial practices and the adequacy of
ment.3                                       the work of the operations-evaluation and in-
Administration. The board continued to be   ternal-audit units. The committee provides a
active in terms of setting major policies for the    channel through which the internal and exter-
Bank's administration. In fiscal year 1993. it   nal auditors can communicate with the execu-
was involved in issues of staff benefits. includ-   tive directors.
ing eligibility for expatriate benefits and a   In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal
review of the tax allowance. As it does each    1993. the committee nominated a firm of pri-
year, the executive directors considered a re-    vate, independent, internationally established
view of staff compensation and approved an    accountants to conduct the annual audits of the
annual salary adjustment. The board was also    Bank. The committee reviewed the scope of
briefed on a United Nations report on policy   the independent accountants' examination and
coordination among UN agencies.               their annual audited financial statements. The
New board members were briefed on the    committee also held its annual executive ses-
major issues facing, and initiatives being un-   sion with the external auditors without man-
dertaken by. the Bank's main organizational   agement participation to discuss the auditors'
units. The board was also briefed on the status   findings and recommended actions.
of the Bank's operational work in the six regions.  Through regular meetings with the Bank's
senior financial officers, the committee helped
Development Committee                        to provide assurance to the executive board
The executive directors were actively in-   that the financial affairs of the Bank were
volved with the Development Committee, as-   properly conducted. In this regard, the com-
sisting committee members in preparing for   mittee reviewed and endorsed recommenda-
their meetings, considering the draft provi-   tions pertaining to the fiscal 1993 implementa-
sional agenda, and discussing the president's   tion  of the  IBRD's policy  on  loan-loss
reports and background papers that were used    provisioning. It was also briefed on the status
as the basis for the ministers' discussions. In    of the current IBRD loan portfolio. The com-
addition, several months prior to each meeting,   mittee also reviewed and endorsed preliminary
the executive directors met as a Committee of   recommendations regarding the annual alloca-
the Whole to discuss the preliminary agenda   tion of IBRD net income. In this connection.
and the outlines for the background papers in   the committee engaged in in-depth discussions
order to ensure that the main issues and con-   concerning the principles for the use of IBRD
cerns of committee members were reflected in   surplus. As part of its continuing review of the
the documentation.                            situation of countries in arrears, the committee
In preparing for the committee's semiannual   discussed both the approach to workouts in
meetings, the board discussed a range of pa-   countries in arrears and also the application of
pers and reports that touched on many issues   the IBRD's exposure guidelines. Further, the
of importance to the Bank, including resource    committee endorsed two proposals prior to
flows, trade policy, the environment, and    their approval by the board: one to introduce
private-sector development. Papers for the    single-currency loans as an additional IBRD
September meetings included one on resource   loan instrument and another to revise the
flows to developing countries, one on trade-   IBRD's policy relating to the granting of waiv-
policy developments, and a report on the out-   ers to eligible borrowers under the negative-
come of the United Nations Conference on    pledge clause.
Environment and Development. The papers         As part of its oversight responsibility for the
for the meetings that began in late April 1993   Internal Audit Department (LAD), the commit-
included one on developing-country access to   tee held its second annual executive session
private capital flows and a progress report on    with the auditor general. In addition, it under-
private-sector development.'4 The Executive    took its annual review of the work program of
Directors' Steering Committee reviewed the   the IAD. Through its informal Subcommittee on
communiques released by the Development   IAD Reports. it examined specific audit reports
Committee following its semiannual meetings   to determine whether the department had per-
and made suggestions to ensure that the    formed its functions adequately and efficiently.
board's work program was responsive to the    The committee reviewed and endorsed the rec-
directions set out by the committee.          ommendations of the subcommittee.
Committees of the Executive Directors
Joint Audit Committee. Established in 1970.   '3 For details, see page 46.
the Joint Audit Committee represents share-   '4 For details, see page 52.



22   The Executive Board
Further to its oversight function, the corn-   directors. Angel Torres has served as chairman
mittee also undertook its annual review of the    of the committee since December 1992.
work program of the OED. In addition. the       Committee on Personnzel Policy Issues. The
committee reviewed numerous papers issued    committee, which was established in 1980, is
by the OED as part of an ongoing effort to   charged with keeping under continuing review,
identify problems or policy issues for consid-    and, where appropriate, advising the executive
eration by the executive directors. Its informal   directors on, staff compensation and other
Subcommittee on OED Reports examined spe-   significant personnel-policy  issues. It also
cific products of the department to determine    maintains close liaison with the executive di-
whether the department had performed its   rectors of the International Monetary Fund
functions adequately and whether appropriate   (IMF) on these issues, bearing in mind the
systems were in place to ensure that its find-   general practice of parallelism between the two
ings were being disseminated and utilized. The   institutions.
subcommittee's recommendations were subse-      During the course of the year, the committee
quently reviewed and endorsed. In light of the    issued a report on eligibility for expatriate
recommendations of the portfolio-management   benefits in which a majority of committee
task force, the committee also addressed the    members recommended a change from  the
issue of a broadened mandate for the OED and    current visa-based policy to one based on
submitted its recommendations to the execu-    nationality. Bank management is in the process
tive directors."                              of reviewing the current policv.
The committee consists of eight executive     The committee was instrumental in initiating
directors. Pedro S. Malan has served as chair-    a pilot program for the temporary employment
man of the committee since January 1993.      of nationals from developing countries. Under
Comrlmittee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget   this program, a small number of officials from
Practices. The committee was established in   developing countries would be recruited to
1986 to examine aspects of the Bank's business    work in the Bank for a fixed term, at the end of
processes, administrative policies, standards.   which they would be expected to return to
and budget practices that significantly affect   their countries. The program will provide offi-
the cost-effectiveness of its operations.     cials with hands-on experience working in the
For the second time since its inception. the    Bank, allow them  to become familiar with
committee reviewed the Bank's operational-    Bank practices and procedures, provide the
travel policy. It concluded that, in order to    Bank with staff with practical experience with
reduce travel costs, a number of changes in the   the problems of developing countries, and en-
policy were called for. Its recommendations to   hance the Bank's multicultural nature. It is
this effect made up part of a report forwarded    expected that the pilot program would employ
to the president, who, in August 1992, an-   ten to fifteen people in its first year. The first
nounced changes in the policy that incorpo-    candidates are scheduled to be recruited during
rated several of the committee's main recoin-   the first half of fiscal 1994.
mendations. The changes became effective on     Addressing concerns that have arisen about
January 1, 1993.                             the effect of fluctuation in the value of the
In 1992, the committee endorsed a revised    United States dollar on Bank pensions that are
budget system for the Bank. The revised sys-   converted into "home" currencies, the com-
tem took effect with the fiscal 1994 budget   mittee reviewed the results of a study of the
cycle, which began immediately following ap-   current pension-conversion formula. At the
proval of the fiscal 1993 budget. Under the    committee's request, management is currently
revised system. the committee was given by    conducting an in-depth review of a proposal
the board the additional responsibilities of re-   that would dampen exchange-rate volatility
viewing the planning-directions paper (the first   and produce smoother, more stable home-
document for discussion by the executive di-   currency pension growth over time.
rectors in the budget cycle) and the mid-year   Other significant matters considered by
review of the World Bank's programs and    the committee were the Bank's work-family
budgets. Accordingly, during the year the com-   agenda, the recruitment process, procedures
mittee reviewed both the planning-directions   for senior appointments, and the 1993 compen-
paper and mid-year review and subsequently   sation review.
submitted its reports thereon to the executive  The committee consists of eight executive
directors. In line with its work program, the    directors. Jean-Pierre Le Bouder has served as
committee also reviewed the preceding year's   chairman since January 1993.
work program and budget retrospective.
The Committee on Cost Effectiveness and
Budget Practices consists of eight executive    15 For details, see page 63.



Committees of the Executive Directors   23
Committee on Directors' Administrative    Whole meeting. followed by the setting of
Matters. The Committee on Directors' Ad-    Bank policy at a regular board meeting. A
ministrative Matters was established in 1968 to   summing-up by the chairman would reflect the
consider administrative matters relating to ex-   board's decision on the recommendations.
ecutive directors, alternates, advisers. and    The board also decided to systematically
their staff. The committee submits its reports   review policies in each sector, taking stock of
and recommendations to the board of execu-    experience and providing new policy direc-
tive directors for its decision.             tions where needed. The Executive Directors'
The committee is responsible for assisting    Steering Committee is working with Bank
executive directors in the formulation and im-   management to develop an inventory and a
plementation of new administrative policies    board-review schedule.
and changes in existing policies. Matters taken  2. Board reviews of the Bantk's assistance
up during the fiscal year included official rep-   strategies for its borrowving countries. The
resentation of executive directors at the 1992    Bank's country-assistance strategies for each
annual meetings: regulations relating to exec-    of its borrowing members will be reviewed
utive directors and alternates adopted pursuant   regularly  (approximately  once  every  two
to section 13 of the by-laws of the Bank,   years) by the board. Specific proposals for
remuneration of advisers: compensation of ex-   each year's discussions are developed in con-
ecutive directors' assistants: executive direc-   sultation with the Executive Directors' Steer-
tors' travel to member countries outside their   ing Committee.
constituencies; staffing in executive directors'  Documentation for country-assistance strat-
offices: projected moves of executive direc-   egy discussions covers the country's historical
tors' offices; the status of the main complex    perspective and recent economic performance,
rehabilitation project; progress of the IFC's   its external environment, and the Bank's assis-
headquarters-building project: travel policy for   tance strategy for the country. It reports on
executive directors, alternates, and directors'   how the Bank's strategy relates to the coun-
advisers and assistants: smoking in Bank    try's development objectives and policies and
Group buildings: and parking policy.          on the main objectives of the strategy. Past and
The committee coordinates many of its rec-   current lending programs are summarized, and
ommendations with a similar committee estab-    potential future trends in lending are projected.
lished by the executive directors of the IMF.   3. Coverage oq' the external environment
In making its recommendations, the commit-   in board reports and discuissions. The board
tee tries to maintain a balance between the    agreed that the impact of the external economic
organizational and administrative objectives of   environment on developing countries should be
the institution and the unique circumstances    given greater emphasis in board reports and
faced by the executive directors in discharging    deliberations. This emphasis is to go beyond
their dual responsibilities.                  major annual publications, such as World De-
The committee consists of six executive    v-elopment Report and Global Economic Pros-
directors. John Cosgrove has served as chair-   pects. and is to be included in sector reviews,
man since December 1992.                      country-assistance strategy papers, and, where
Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures.   relevant, individual operations.
The ad hoc committee was established in Feb-    4. The use of streamlined procedures in
ruary 1991 to review the functioning and pro-    approving lending operations. In the light of
cedures of the executive board and to report on   increased board attention to policy formulation
ways to conduct the board's work more effi-   and implementation, and the initiation  of
ciently so as to enable the board to perform    country-assistance strategy discussions for all
better its role in making Bank policy. In Au-    Bank borrowers, the board has expanded the
gust 1992, the executive directors approved the    use of streamlined project-approval proce-
committee's report. and subsequently, the ex-   dures. Under these procedures, lending oper-
tensive, far-reaching changes that were recom-   ations would normally be approved without
mended were phased in and put into effect on    board discussion on the basis of a prior board
December 1, 1992. The changes cover five    discussion of a country-assistance strategy.
main areas:                                   Adjustment, debt-reduction, and lending oper-
1. General and sector-policy reviews. For   ations deemed by Bank management to have
all general policy and sector-policy papers, the    particular policy interest, special features, or
board is now involved earlier in policy formu-    which significantly deviate from a previously
lation. A two-step formula is now applied, for   discussed country-assistance strategy frame-
example, for papers with complex or poten-    work are approved under existing regular pro-
tially controversial proposals: discussion of an    cedures. Although executive directors retain
"approach" paper in a Committee of the   the right to request that any item be considered



24   The Executive Board
under regular procedures, all other lending    ceeded by Moises Naim, who served as chair-
operations are intended to be taken up under   man until the conclusion of the committee's
streamlined procedures allowing for their ap-   work program.
proval without board discussion.               Executive Directors  Steering Committee.
The committee also looked at the increasing    The Executive Directors' Steering Committee,
number of documents regularly provided to the    an informal advisory body of executive direc-
directors for information or discussion and   tors composed of the dean. Frank Potter. and
found that many could be issued less fre-   the codean. Ibrahim Al-Assaf, of the board.
quently. be provided electronically. or be dis-   and the chairpersons of the other standing
continued without impairing the board's over-   board committees. meets monthly to consult
sight responsibility.                        on. and review with the Bank's management.
5. The conduct of board meelings. Given   the executive directors' work program. The
the number of board meetings that are possible   committee also provides a consultative frame-
in a given year, as well as the number and    work on various board issues. In addition, the
variety of issues that were previously taken up    committee reviews the Development Commit-
by the board. the ad hoc committee concluded    tee's communiques to ensure that the implica-
that no improvement in the board's effective-   tions for the executive directors' work pro-
ness was possible without reducing the number   gram are fully considered. The committee has
of agenda items that are formally-and ex-   also taken a leading role in ensuring the effi-
tensively-discussed under the previous ar-   cient implementation of the recommendations
rangements and without rationalizing board    of the Ad Hoc Committee on Board Proce-
practices. The recommendations summarized    dures. The committee consists of six executive
above were designed to address some of the    directors. Frank Potter, has served as chair-
constraints to effectiveness.                man since February 1993.
The ad hoc committee consisted of four       The meetings of committees of the executive
executive directors. Jonas H. Haralz served as    board are open to participation by all executive
chairman until August 1991 when he was suc-   directors.



25
Section Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
The world economy began to show signs of   greatly from country to country), indicating
recovering from the recent slowdown in 1992,   debt distress.
as the overall gross domestic product (GDP)    * Aggregate net resource flows to develop-
growth rate rose a modest 1.3 percent, up from    ing countries increased sharply, led by a huge
the feeble 0.5 percent of the previous year.   rise in private loans in the form of bond financ-
Growth in the developing countries (excluding   ing toward a number of countries. Official
the special case of the Central and East Euro-   development assistance increased modestly in
pean and former Soviet Union (FSU) econo-   nominal terms, and advances in foreign direct
mies in transition) led the way. For the second   investment (FDI) were both robust (up nearly
year in a row, their rate of growth (4.5 percent   14 percent) and broadbased.
in 1992) outpaced that of the major industrial-  * In contrast with the generally encouraging
ized countries by three percentage points.  trends in growth. debt, and resource flows, the
Developing-country growth was led by the    primary-commodity arena was a dreary scene.
countries of the East Asia region (up 8.9 per-   Except for producers of tea. vegetable oil, or
cent and paced by China's leap in output of 12   copper, 1992 was a bad year. In fact, the index
percent) and the Middle East, which "benefit-   of nonoil primary commodities fell to a post-
ed" from the stimulus of reconstruction ef-   World War II low.
forts. In sharp contrast, output in the republics  * On the trade front, stagnation in the Uru-
of the former Soviet Union plummeted by    guay Round negotiations stood in sharp con-
about 20 percent. Declines in Central and   trast to the acceleration-for the first time
Eastern Europe abated, however, and Po-   since 1988-in the volume of merchandise
land's economy actually grew for the first time    trade, which received a boost from economic
since undergoing "shock therapy."            recovery in North America and strong import
In other developments during the year:     demand in the developing countries of Latin
* Debt stocks of developing countries (as   America and East Asia.
expressed in United States-dollar terms) grew
for the third consecutive year, although the   Industrialized Countries
debt-to-gross national product (GNP) and the   The downturn in economic activity in the
debt service-to-exports ratios both declined.   industrialized countries continued during 1992,
The increase in the stock of debt was primarily    with overall real growth in GDP among the
the result of active commercial borrowing by   twenty-four member countries of the Organi-
East Asian countries and a large influx of   sation for Economic Co-operation and Devel-
guaranteed export credits to the republics of   opment (OECD) estimated at about 1.6 per-
the FSU.                                     cent, up from the 0.2 percent figure of the
* Debt and debt-service reduction opera-   previous year. Unemployment rates increased
tions were concluded with Nigeria and the   further during the year, to more than 8 percent.
Philippines. while agreements in principle were  There were distinct differences in the cycli-
reached between commercial creditors and Ar-   cal positions across OECD countries. In most
gentina, Brazil, and Peru. Heavily indebted,   of the countries that entered first into the
middle-income countries were generally suc-   current slowdown, such as Australia, Canada,
cessful in restructuring their official debts.  New Zealand. Norway, the United Kingdom.
Many heavilv indebted low-income coun-   and the United States, a slow recovery began
tries, however-despite a flurry of arrange-   during the year or appears to be imminent. In
ments on their behalf-continued to have debt-   contrast, tentative signs that the Japanese
service obligations that are well in excess of   economy may have stopped slowing have only
sustainable levels. The average ratio of actual   just appeared. Most continental European
to scheduled debt service was estimated at   countries went into the downturn later and are
about 50 percent in 1992 (although it varies   showing few signs of emerging from it quickly.



26   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Against this background of weak activity    erty markets, and increasing unemployment,
and high and rising unemployment, the process    until early 1992, also contributed to significant
of OECD-wide disinflation, which began in   consumer caution. By mid 1992, the lowering
1990, continued. One notable feature is that    of interest rates had eased the debt burden
manufacturing producer prices in most coun-    significantly. thereby supporting progressively
tries are close to stability and have even fallen    stronger growth in the third and fourth quar-
in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France. Japan,   ters. Growth also reflected the benefits of
and the Netherlands-countries that have re-    considerable restructuring in many sectors.
cently experienced effective appreciations of   The current-account balance of the United
their exchange rates. Prices of services and    States again moved into large deficit in 1992, as
rents, however. have shown less deceleration.    cyclical factors and Gulf war-related transfers,
The process of unwinding excessive debt    which had contributed to a decline in the
positions acquired during the asset-market    deficit during the previous year. were reversed
booms of the second half of the 1980s led    or were no longer at work.
households and firms in many countries. nota-    As in the United States, recovery in Canada
bly Australia. Canada. Japan. some Nordic    was much weaker than in previous post-
countries, the  United  Kingdom, and  the    recession instances. and GDP rose by only 0.9
United States, to retrench their spending. In    percent. Employment remained flat through-
many countries, banks have been faced with a    out the year. and the rate of unemployment
need to restore profitability and reserves in the    rose to more than II percent, up one percent-
wake of heavy losses, deteriorating asset qual-   age point from the previous year. In contrast,
ity, and new  internationally agreed capital-   until recently, recovery in the United Kingdom
adequacy requirements. This has prompted    remained elusive, as economic activity eased
them to increase lending margins and to adopt   by 0.6 percent and unemployment rose to
a more cautious stance in respect of demands    nearly 10 percent.
for credit.                                      In Japan, both investment and savings de-
Since the autumn of 1992. short-term inter-   clined sharply as a result of a decline in asset
est rates have remained low in the United    prices and associated balance-sheet problems.
States and have fallen slightly in Japan to an    Profits fell sharply, and bankruptcy rates rose
historic low (see Figure 2-1). Following the    as tight labor-market conditions eased consid-
floating of the lira and the pound sterling.    erably. Although falling interest rates and the
interest rates have also fallen markedly in Italy   fiscal-stimulus package of August 1992, with a
and the United Kingdom, albeit in the former   larger one proposed in April 1993. are expected
country oniv to around the levels prevailing    to help contain recessionary forces, substantial
before the European currency unrest in the    uncertainties (including those about the dura-
summer of 1992. Within Europe. which expe-   tion of the dampening effects of asset deflation)
rienced high short-term rates over the past two    remain. Japan's current-account surplus in-
years, short rates in Germany began to fall   creased steadily throughout 1992, reaching a
during the second half of 1992.                record level in absolute terms, though not
Long-term interest rates began to fall during    relative to GNP. Factors underlying this rise
the second half of 1992 in most OECD coun-   included sharp reductions in domestic demand,
tries, as inflation expectations receded and    lower world commodity prices, and the appre-
major medium-term  fiscal-consolidation pro-    ciation of the yen in 1991-92. which induced a
grams were unveiled in Germany and the    rise in the dollar value of the country's ex-
United States. Nonetheless, while long rates of   ports.
between 6 percent and slightly above 7 percent   Developments in Germany were dominated
are below the averages that prevailed since    by the increased strain brought about by the
1980 in many countries, they remained rela-    expansionary fiscal policy that followed unifi-
tively high when judged in a longer historical    cation and the tight monetary policies that
context.                                       were subsequently adopted. Domestic demand
Events in the mnajor induistrialized countries.   was restrained by high interest rates, which,
The GDP growth rate of the United States    along with cost pressures, also weakened the
gradually accelerated during 1992 and reached    export-oriented manufacturing sector and af-
2.1 percent for the year (see Table 2-1). The    fected competitiveness. Continuing strength in
initial sluggishness of the recovery was largely   the construction and service sector supported
the result of restrained demand, as households    activity in Germany's eastern Lander, but the
and businesses sought to reduce the debts they    recovery there of industrial output was much
had accumulated in the late 1980s. Depressed    weaker than expected, in part because of the
private-sector net worth. associated  with    pressure on costs that resulted from  rapid
weaknesses in housing and commercial prop-    growth in wages relative to productivity. While



Industrialized Countries    27
Figure 2-1. Nominal Six-month LIBOR Rates, 1985-92
(annual percentages)
10
9
8
8          ~~~U.S. dollar.
7
6~~~~~~~~~~. \ \                        / Yen   \\
5             **4* ... ,;0 =,., ........\t
4
3
1985        1986         1987        1988         1989        1990         1991        1992
Source: IMF and OECD.
Table 2-1. G-7 Countries: Output, Inflation, Investment, and Unemployment, 1982-92
(average annual percentage change; unemployment rates in percent)
G-7 country                        1982-92        1991        1992a       1982-92        1991        1992'
Real GNP or GDPb                     GNP or GDP deflatorb
Canada                               2.7          -1.7          0.9          4.2          2.7         1.0
France                               2.2           0.7          1.3          5.5          3.0         2.3
Germanyc                             2.5           3.7          2.0          2.9          4.4         5.4
Italy                                2.4            1.3         0.9          9.4          7.4         4.8
Japan                                4.1           4.0          1.3          1.5          2.2         1.9
United Kingdom                       2.2          -2.2        -0.6          5.8          6.4          4.4
United States                        2.6         -1.2          2.1          4.1          4.0          2.7
Aggregate weighted average           2.8           0.7          1.6          3.4          3.9         2.9
Gross fixed investment'                 Unemployment rated
Canada                               2.4          -3.7        -0.6           9.8         10.2        11.2
France                               2.4         -1.5         -2.3          9.6           9.4        10.2
Germany                              5.0           6.5          4.6          7.3          4.4         4.8
Italy                                2.4           0.6        -1.4          10.8          9.9        10.5
Japan                                5.7           3.0        - 1.1          2.5          2.1         2.2
United Kingdom                       4.2          -9.9        -0.6          9.2           8.7         9.9
United States                        1.8          -8.5          5.5          7.1         6.6          7.3
Aggregate weighted average           4.4          -3.1          2.2          7.0          6.3         6.9
a. Preliminary.
b. GNP for Germany, Japan, and the United States; GDP for others.
c. Germany, western Ldnder through 1991: unified, 1992.
d. German data refer to western Ldnder only.
SOURCE: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).



28    The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Table 2-2. Low- and Middle-income Economies: Growth of GDP and GDP Per Capita,
1981-92
(average annuai percentage change unless otherwise noted)
GDP                              1991
GDP
Region or income group             1981-88  1989  1990  1991        l992'           (US$ billions)
Low- and middle-income economies   3.3   3.1    1.5  -0.2           -0.2               4.546
By regional group
Sub-Saharan Africab                  1.8   3.8    1.6   1.8           1.8                178
East Asiac                           8.7   6.1    6.4   7.1           8.9              1.059
South Asiad                          5.4   5.1   5.5   1.8            4.8                335
Middle East and North Africa'        0.4   2.9   2.8   2.2            4.0                463
Europe and Central Asia'             2.9   2.2  -1.7  -8.5          -14.0              1,335
Latin America and the Caribbeang     2.1   0.9   0.0   3.3            2.3              1,176
By inco,ne group
Low-income economiesh                6.3   5.0   4.7   4.2            7.2              1,026
Middle-income economies'             2.5   2.5   0.4  -1.8           -3.9              3,520
a. Preliminary.
b. Excludes South Africa.
c. American Samoa, Cambodia, China, Fiji. Guam. Indonesia. Kiribati. Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic
Republic. Macao, Malaysia. Mongolia, Myanmar, New Caladonia and Pacific Islands' Trust Territory, Papua New Guinea,
the Philippines. Solomon Islands, Thailand, Tonga. Vanuatu, Viet Nam, and Western Samoa.
d. Afghanistan, Bangladesh. Bhutan, India, Maldives. Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
e. Algeria. Bahrain, Egypt, Islamic Republic of Iran. Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Syrian
Arab Republic. Tunisia, and Yemen.
unified Germany's growth rate rose to 2.0              Since the turmoil in the European exchange
percent from  its 1991 level of 0.8 percent.    market at the end of 1992, the pound sterling
activity in Germany's western Lander weak-    and the Italian lira were suspended from  the
ened sharply in 1992.                               ERM, four other currencies realigned under
Other European  countries were also ad-    market pressure. and three Nordic currencies
versely affected by tight monetary conditions    that had been pegged to the European currency
and by a general deterioration in the economic    unit began to float. This crisis led to increases
climate. Economic growth in France was a    in the latter part of 1992 in short-term  interest
weaker-than-expected 1.3 percent for 1992, and      rates in many European countries in support of
real fixed investment declined by more than I    their currencies. Generally, however, both
percent as a result of high real interest rates.    short-term and long-term interest rates tended
Inflation was at record lows, and although the    to decline in most industrial countries as a
export sector showed improvement early in    result of weak growth, declining inflation, and
1992, indicators of consumer confidence re-    growing expectation of fiscal deficit reduction
mained weak, and unemployment rose to his-    in some industrial countries.
torically high levels bv the end of the year.
Increasing unemployment and declining con-    Developing Countries
sumer confidence were features of develop-             In 1992, aggregate growth of the developing
ments in 1992 in Italy, as well. Weakening          countries-excluding the countries in transi-
domestic demand was somewhat offset by im-    tion in Central and Eastern Europe and the
proved competitiveness of the export sector in      FSU, which form  a unique group-was 4.7
the second part of the year. which stemmed          percent, some three percentage points higher
from  the elimination of wage indexation and        (for the second consecutive year) than the
the lira's withdrawal from  the exchange-rate    growth  of the  major industrial countries.
mechanism  (ERM). Industrial production re-    Growth of almost 5 percent in the traditional
mained weak, however, and overall output    universe of developing countries can be attrib-
growth for 1992 was only 0.9 percent. In the    uted to continued rapid growth in East Asia
smaller industrial countries, average growth    and reconstruction in the Middle East follow-
remained below  I percent, partly the result of    ing the abatement of hostilities there. In addi-
faltering demand in Germany (and elsewhere in    tion, significant amounts of private external
most of Europe) that weakened key export    capital flows into a number of Latin American
markets for a number of countries.                  countries allowed domestic demand to grow



Developing Countries    29
1991                       GDP per capita
population
(millions)   1982-88     1989     1990      1991     l992'    Region or income group
4,502           1.3       1.2    -0.4       -2.1     -2.0      Low- and middle-income economies
By regional group
489         -1.2        0.7     -1.5      -1.3      -1.2    Sub-Saharan Africab
1,668          6.9       4.4       4.7       5.4       7.2     East Asiac
1,153          3.1       2.9       3.4     -0.3        2.8     South Asiad
245         -2.8       -0.2     -0.4      -0.9        1.0    Middle East and North Africa'
501           2.0       1.4    -2.5       -9.2     - 14.6    Europe and Central Asia'
446           0.0      -1.0     -1.9        1.5      0.5     Latin America and the Caribbeang
By income group
3,127          4.2        2.9      2.7       2.2       5.2     Low-income economiesh
1,375          0.7       0.9    -1.2       -3.4      -5.4      Middle-income economies'
f. Republics of the former Soviet Union, republics of former Yugoslavia, Albania, Bulgaria. Czechoslovakia. Gibraltar.
Greece, Hungary, Isle of Man. Malta. Poland. Portugal, Romania. and Turkey.
g. All American and Caribbean economies south of the United States, except Cuba.
h. Economies with a GNP per capita of S635 or less in 1991.
i. Economies with a GNP per capita of more than $635 but less than $7,910 in 1991.
substantially, and some of these countries ex-       In South Asia, GDP grew  by 4.8 percent.
perienced their fastest growth in GDP since the    compared with a meager 2.4 percent in 1991.
onset of the debt crisis in 1982. Although terms    Growth in India accelerated in response to a
of trade in 1992 were not favorable to commod-    number of adjustment policies aimed at stimu-
ity-exporting developing countries, lower in-    lating private-sector activity. India's turnabout
terest rates in major currencies tended to offset    was a remarkable achievement in that the
this negative effect in countries with large    country had experienced its lowest growth in a
external debt. Overall, however, growth of all    decade only twelve months earlier. Sound fi-
developing countries, including those of Cen-    nancial policies and ongoing structural reforms
tral and Eastern Europe and the republics of    also produced high growth rates in Pakistan
the former Soviet Union. was slightly negative    and  Bangladesh: a devastating  flood-the
in 1992 (see Table 2-2).                           worst in many decades-that struck Pakistan
Growth of GDP in East Asia of 9 percent in   in September 1992 inflicted widespread dam-
1992 reflected mainly an increase in China's    age to crops and infrastructure and will un-
growth rate of 12 percent. Rapid growth has    doubtedly slow the country's growth in 1993.
been a result of the shift to China, since 1989,     The abatement of hostilities in the Middle
of many production facilities from  more ma-    East and the ensuing reconstruction efforts
ture economies in the region that are seeking to    have allowed the economies in that region to
take advantage of lower production costs. In    regain  some  growth  momentum-even  as
addition, there has been a strong increase in    growth rates were decelerating in most of
China's fixed capital formation, the result of    Europe and the price of oil was declining.
the government's move toward market mech-    Growth in GDP was particularly high in Jor-
anisms that have boosted the confidence of    dan. which had performed dismally in 1991 in
foreign investors. With China serving as a    the wake of the Gulf war. Structural reforms
"growth pole" and with a strong recovery of    and liberalization in trade and exchange sys-
import growth in the United States, the tradi-   tems also resulted in continuing strong growth
tional East Asian exporting economies were    in Iran. In many North African countries.
also able to accelerate their growth in 1992.    however, growth was slow  for a variety of
There were a few exceptions. notably in the    reasons: Egypt was in the process of adjusting
Philippines, where  a stabilization  program       its fiscal imbalances, and Algeria continued to
aimed at correcting severe external imbalances    be plagued by political instability. Although
was the main cause of virtual stagnation.          Morocco suffered from a poor harvest. it was



30   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
able, due to the success of its adjustment   to control most imports through a system of
process over the past few years, to declare full   administrative allocations of scarce foreign ex-
convertibility of its currency.                change, usually at highly subsidized rates. De-
Sub-Saharan Africa's growth performance    velopments in other republics of the FSU were
continued to be poor. Among the reasons were    not more encouraging, and their aggregate out-
a severe drought in the southern tier of coun-    put is estimated to have contracted by about 20
tries, extremely poor world prices for coffee    percent. The decline in the output of other
and cocoa, and an escalation of hostilities in    countries in transition in Central and Eastern
Angola, Liberia. Somalia. and Zaire. Most    Europe was less than in 1991: in Poland. pos-
countries in the region continued to endure   itive real growth took place during 1992.
declining per capita incomes. Decline was par-    Trends in External Debt and Progress of
ticularly pronounced in Malawi. Zambia. and
Zimbabwe, where the drought was the worst in    Debt Strategies
a generation, and in Somalia and Zaire. where    Long-term external debt of the developing
levels of civil strife escalated. The decline in   countries, expressed in United States-dollar
coffee and cocoa prices to their lowest levels   terms, increased by about $80 billion from its
since 1975 adversely affected a number of coun-    1991 level to reach $1.4 trillion, continuing the
tries that are heavily reliant on the export of   three-year trend of rising debt stocks in nomi-
these commodities. In Burundi. for example.    nal terms (see Table 2-3). The increase in debt
earnings from coffee exports dropped by 30    stock was caused primarily by active borrow-
percent despite virtually unchanged volume.    ing in the financial markets by East Asian
Latin America's GDP growth decelerated to    countries and by a large influx of guaranteed
2.3 percent from 3.3 percent in 1991, mainly    export credits to the countries of the FSU,
the result of Brazil's poor performance. The    combined with a deferment of their principal
aggregate growth rate accelerated in the rest of   repayments. To a lesser extent, the deprecia-
Latin America as countries' stabilization and    tion of the United States dollar also contrib-
reform efforts bore fruit, and Argentina. Chile,    uted to the increase in the debt stock. Despite
and Venezuela experienced their fastest GDP    the increase, the debt-to-GNP ratio for devel-
growth rates in a decade. External private    oping countries in the aggregate remained at
capital flowed into these three countries and    around 31 percent. and the debt service-to-
Mexico in the amount of about $40 billion,   exports ratio actually declined from its 1991
allowing imports to grow rapidly (by as much    level by more than three percentage points to
as 40 percent in Venezuela) even as their   reach 18 percent. This brightening picture was
reserve assets also grew at high rates. The    a continuation of the downward trend in the
rapid growth of imports by Latin American    two ratios of the past few  years-a trend
countries significantly  strengthened the re-   resulting from  improved export performance
gional ties between North and South America.    and successful debt and debt-service reduction
In sharp contrast with the rest of the devel-   (DDSR) operations.
oping world, the decline of income in the        Aggregate figures. however. mask signifi-
Europe and Central Asia region accelerated    cant differences across regions. In East Asia
further (to 14 percent) as many economies    and the Pacific, external debt continued to
pursued dramatic structural adjustments fol-   grow quickly, mainly the result of continued
lowing the disintegration of the Soviet Union:    access by many countries in the region to
in addition, some countries were entangled in    world capital markets. The external debt of the
regional and civil conflicts. In the Russian    various republics of the FSU is also estimated
Federation, all but a few prices (energy, cer-   to have increased, by around 20 percent. In
tain medicines, precious metals. and freight    other regions, debt levels grew  relatively
and transportation  tariffs were exceptions)   slowly  as  lending, especially  by  private
were liberalized in early 1992. However, the    sources, was limited and as the urge for any
effects  of  liberalization  were  somewhat   increase was constrained by already substan-
blunted because production of many goods   tial debt-service obligations.
remained highly concentrated. The wholesale      Official forgiveness of developing-country
price of oil, which was raised sevenfold in May    debt, including forgiveness by Arab creditors,
1992, doubled again in September. Despite   totaled about $6.5 billion. The reduction in
significant progress in the area of privatization.    private debt was due mostly to otficially sup-
formidable legal, regulatory, and other obsta-    ported comprehensive DDSR operations, mar-
cles to the emergence of an efficient private    ket buybacks, and debt-equity swaps. Offi-
market economy persisted. Steps were also    cially supported DDSR operations in Nigeria
taken to liberalize trade and foreign-exchange    and the Philippines reduced the face value of
regimes-although the government continued    their debt by about $4.7 billion. Market buy-



Trends in External Debt and Progress of Debt Strategies    31
Table 2-3. Low- and Middle-income Economies: Long-term Debt and Debt Service,
Selected Years, 1987-92
(billions of US dollars and percentages)
All low- and          Severely indebted.
middle-income            middle-income
economies                economies           Sub-Saharan Africa
Item                           1987      1991     1992"    1987   1991   1992'   1987   1991   19921
Debt outstanding              1,160.3  1,288.1  1,367.0  466.6  469.0  469.4  135.0  160.9  162.6
Official (%)                  45.2      51.7     51.9   38.0   47.5   49.2   59.3   68.5   71.8
Private (%                     54.8     48.3     48.1   62.0   52.5   50.8   40.7   31.5   28.2
Debt as % of GNP                 34.4     31.2      30.8   59.0   41.1   37.3   59.9   59.8   58.4
Debt service                    143.6    154.3    153.8   45.2   46.4   52.0    9.4   11.4   12.3
Interest payments                58.7     63.8      58.8   24.2   20.6   17.7    4.3    5.8    6.2
Official (%)                   28.3     35.7     41.7   20.7   35.1   46.8   40.1   47.0   42.6
Private (%)                    71.7     64.3     58.3   79.3   64.9   53.2   59.9   53.0   57.4
Principal repayments             84.9     90.5      95.0   21.0   25.7   34.3    5.1    5.5    6.1
Official (%l                   27.3     30.9      32.5   37.1   36.6   31.8   28.7   42.7   42.9
Private (%)                    72.7     69.1     67.5   62.9   63.4   68.2   71.3   57.3   57.1
Debt-service ratio (%)b          24.6     21.7      18.2   37.9   31.4   33.2   20.2   16.8   15.7
Average interest rate on
new commitments (%)C            6.4      6.6      n.a.    7.0    7.4    n.a.    4.5    3.8    n.a.
Official (%)                    5.0      5.7      n.a.    5.9    7.0    n.a.    3.4    3.5    n.a.
Private (%)                     7.6      7.7      n.a.    7.8    8.0    n.a.    8.0    7.5    n.a.
Disbursements                   121.6    132.9    151.8   35.1   27.7   35.1   11.1    8.4    9.3
Official (%)                   41.4     42.2     40.7   43.7   45.0   47.7   63.1   69.8   75.2
Private (%)                    58.6     57.8     59.3   56.3   55.0   52.3   36.9   30.2   24.8
Net resource flows on
long-term lendingd             36.7     42.4     56.8   14.1    2.0    0.9    6.0    2.9    3.1
Net transfers on long-term
lending'                     -21.9   -21.4       -2.0  -10.1  - 18.7  -16.9    1.8  -2.9   -3.0
n.a. Not available.
a. Preliminary.
b. Debt service as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
c. Covers the countries reporting to the World Bank Debtor Reporting System.
d. Disbursements minus (actual) principal repayments.
e. Net resource flows minus (actual) interest payments.
SOURCE: World Bank.
backs are estimated to have reduced develop-    of the FSU  reached an agreement with the
ing countries' external debt by as much as $7.9       Paris Club in April 1993 to reschedule $15
billion, an amount almost entirely accounted          billion, an amount that covers almost all of the
for by Mexico's $7.1 billion DDSR operation.    debt service due in 1993: Gabon signed restruc-
Debt-equity swaps, which had plunged from a           turing agreements with both its private and
peak of $9 billion in 1990 to $2 billion in 1991,    official creditors: and Argentina and  Brazil
are estimated to have remained at that level in    reached  restructuring  agreements  with  the
calendar 1992. despite a $1 billion swap ar-    Paris Clib for a total of $6.3 billion under
rangement in Argentina as part of its privatiza-    which the amortization schedule for restruc-
tion program.                                         tured debt was extended, thereby reducing the
Middle-income developing countries contin-    need for further rescheduling. The severely
ued to make progress in debt restructuring, and       indebted. lower-middle-income  countries of
substantial declines in their debt stock and          Cameroon. Ecuador, Guatemala, Jamaica. Jor-
debt-service  ratios  occurred: After several    dan, and Morocco continued to negotiate spe-
deferral agreements during 1992. the republics        cial agreements with the Paris Club for a con-



32    The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
solidated amount of about $3.3 billion under    Five operations, involving about $45 million in
the 'Houston terms."                               facility funds, have been completed for Bo-
Commercial-bank   DDSR   operations  in   livia,  Guyana.  Mozambique,  Niger.  and
middle-income countries also  continued  in    Uganda. These operations extinguished $623
1992. Operations in Nigeria and the Philippines    million of principal in external commercial
(phase II) restructured a total of almost $10    debt, or about 89 percent of the commercial
billion in commercial debt. Argentina, sup-    debt of these countries. Another six opera-
ported by a World Bank commitment of $450    tions-for Albania, Nicaragua, Sao Tome and
million, also reached a DDSR agreement with    Principe, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, and Zam-
its commercial banks that will reduce its com-    bia-are under preparation, and several other
mercial debt by about $11 billion. or 37 percent    countries have expressed interest in using the
of the face value of the eligible principal debt    facility for DDSR operations.
and past interest due. In addition, Bulgaria
proposed a DDSR agreement to its commercial-    Net Financial Flows and Access to
bank creditors, and Brazil, the developing    Capital Markets
world's largest debtor, reached an agreement         In 1992, aggregate net resource flows to
in principle with its creditor banks (an arrange-    developing countries-that is, net flows of
ment is expected to be concluded during 1993).   long-term  debt and grants, excluding tech-
Countries with protracted arrears also made    nical assistance, and equity investment (FDI
some progress. The government of Peru, for    and portfolio equity investment)-increased
example, signed an agreement for new borrow-    by about $20 billion, to reach $136 billion (see
ing from its commercial creditors of up to $1.5    Table 2-4). Aggregate long-term  net resource
billion, after having cleared existing arrears.   transiers to developing countries, including
Severely indebted, low-income countries,    the service of external resources (interest on
however, continued to face grave debt-burden    debt and profits on equity investment), in-
problems, and debt ratios remained unsustain-    creased by about $58 billion, up by more than
ably high for many. The aggregate debt-to-    $20 billion over 1991's total. Profit increases.
exports and debt-to-GNP ratios of this group of    which depressed net transfers on equity, were
countries are estimated at 411 percent and 113    more than offset by a reduction-resulting
percent, respectively. Paris Club official cred-    primarily from falling United States-dollar in-
itors extended "enhanced Toronto terms" to    terest rates-in  interest payments on debt.
Ethiopia, Guinea, Honduras, Mali, Maurita-    Aggregate net transfers accounted for 1.2 per-
nia, Mozambique, and Sierra Leone. In addi-    cent of developing-country GNP as compared
tion, the Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only    with 0.9 percent in 1991. While the rise in
Countries saw a sharp increase in operations    aggregate net flows was similar in magnitude to
cofinanced with a number of bilateral donors.    that of 1991, its composition was different:
Table 24. Long-term Financial Flows to Developing Countries, 1985-92
(billions of US dollars)
Item                                   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992a
Long-term aggregate net resource flows   73.4   64.8   68.0   76.1   82.7   98.0   115.2   135.8
Official development finance         40.7   45.1   44.8   41.8   42.4   58.8    59.4    62.0
Official grants                    16.1   16.7   17.5   19.1   19.9  28.2    31.3    31.1
Net official loans                 24.6   28.4   27.2   22.7   22.5   30.6    28.2    30.9
Bilateral                        11.8   13.3   12.7   11.6   10.7   15.8    13.8    13.4
Multilateral                     12.8   15.0   14.5   11.1   11.8  14.8    14.4    17.5
Net private loans                    21.8    9.8    9.5   14.5   13.5   11.4    14.2    25.9
Commercial banks                    8.5    1.7    1.6    9.4    6.3  -4.1        3.9    n.a.
Bonds                               6.0    1.5    1.0    3.9    4.5    3.2       7.6    n.a.
Others                              7.3    6.6    6.9    1.2   2.7   12.3        2.7    n.a.
Foreign direct investment            11.0    9.9   13.7   19.7  23.3   24.0    33.9    38.3
Portfolio equity investmentb         n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    3.5    3.8    7.6     9.6
Long-term aggregate net transfers'      3.0   -3.2   -1.9   -2.9    8.1   24.4    37.7    58.0
n.a. Not available.
a. Preliminary.
b. World Bank staff estimates available since 1989 only.
c. Long-term aggregate net resource flows minus interest payments and reinvested and remitted profits.
SOURCE: World Debt Tables, 1992-93.



Primary-commodity Market Developments   33
In 1991. the increase was caused mainly by the    flows. Most low-income countries, however.
sharp rise in equity flows, both FDI and port-   did not attract international investors and were
folio: the sole source of the increase in 1992   thus unable to participate in the recent surge in
was private loans, particularly in the form of   private flows. As a result, their aggregate net
bond financing. Net transfers on equity and    resource flows stagnated. leaving them primar-
grants are estimated to have stagnated in 1992.   ily dependent on official financing to meet their
Official development assistance (ODA)-of-   financing requirements.
ficial loans and grants from bilateral and mul-
tilateral sources-continued its nominal up-    Primary-commodity Market
ward trend over the past three years and    Developments
reached an estimated $62 billion. In real terms,  Deteriorating economic conditions in the in-
however. ODA has declined from its 1990 peak    dustrial countries and the FSU set the stage for
by over 3 percent: grants continued to decline,   further declines in primary-commodity prices
while official loans recovered slightly. ODA as   in 1992. The index of nonoil primary-commod-
a percentage of industrialized-country donors'   ity prices in nominal dollars in 1992. on aver-
GNP has remained at about 0.35 since 1985.   age. was 4.5 percent lower than in 1991 (see
Forgiveness of ODA debt in 1992. including    Table 2-5). In terms of constant 1990 dollars
further forgiveness by Arab creditors (which    (using as the deflator the unit-value index of
was substantial in 1990 and 1991), amounted to    exports of manufactured goods from the five
an estimated $4 billion.                       largest industrialized countries to the develop-
Foreign direct investment in 1992 expanded    ing countries), the 1992 index was at a level 50
beyond its traditional target of East Asia (In-    percent below its long-term average-the low-
donesia, Malavsia, and Thailand) as well as the    est point in the post-war period. Most of the
historical (pre-1982) markets in Latin America    declines in primary-commodity prices took
(Argentina. Brazil. Mexico. and Venezuela)    place during the latter part of 1992, particularly
and reached other developing countries such    in the fourth quarter, when pessimism about
as China. Egypt. and Nigeria. Factors contrib-   the economic outlook in the industrial coun-
uting to the increase in FDI during 1992 in-   tries was at its peak. The index recovered
cluded improved macroeconomic performance    slightly in the first quarter of 1993. but a clear
in many countries, more welcoming regulatory    upward trend is not yet visible. The downward
regimes, and privatization programs. Net flows    pressure affected all commodity groups except
of FDI in 1992 amounted to about $38 billion,   for timber and some fats and oils. Timber
14 percent higher than in 1991 and about 60    prices soared in the early months of 1993.
percent higher than in 1990. The rapid increase  Weaker demand and relatively good har-
in the stock of FDI, however, translated into    vests resulted in a 1.7 percent decline in the
larger profit remittances, resulting in a net FDI    cereals-price index in 1992. World grain pro-
transfer of about $20 billion, which is about the    duction reached a record level by increasing an
same as that in 1991.                          estimated 3.2 percent in 1992/93. In the bever-
Portfolio equity flows, channeled mainly    ages group, coffee and cocoa prices declined
through external stock offerings in the form of   further from  the already low  levels of the
depository receipts, as well as direct equity    preceding year: in contrast, tea prices rose.
purchases and country funds. which had dou-    The decline in coffee prices during the first half
bled in 1991, grew almost 30 percent in 1992 to    of 1992 was caused mainly by increased pro-
stand at $9.6 billion. Portfolio debt flows.   duction and exports from Brazil and Colombia
which had also doubled in 1991, continued to   in the wake of the July 1989 suspension of the
grow strongly as a result of bond issuances and    quota system, which was operating under the
reached an estimated $19 billion. In particular.   International Coffee Agreement. Subsequently.
Latin American companies, such as Mexico's   prices rose on the expectation of a lower
state-owned oil company and several conimer-    1992/93 crop in several Central American coun-
cial banks in the region, continued to tap    tries and Mexico, a possible decline in the
international financial markets. Private portfo-    1993/94 Brazilian crop, and restraints being
lio flows-both equity and debt-represented a    exercised on exports by Colombia, C6te
major source of external financing. These    d'lvoire, and Indonesia. Cocoa prices remained
gross portfolio flows are estimated to have    low because of generally good cocoa crops and
reached $27 billion in 1992.                   reduced chocolate consumption in Europe and
Trends in net resource flows, however, dif-   the United States. Drought and low producer
fered quite substantially among regions and    prices reduced tea production in India. Kenya.
income groups. Generally, middle-income de-    Malawi. and Sri Lanka. Imports of tea by the
veloping countries managed to attract private   republics of the FSU were somewhat higher
equity financing in the form of FDI or portfolio   than in the previous year.



34   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
Table 2-5. Commodity Prices, 1985-92
(average annual percentage change)
Commodity price                   1985-90     1990      1991       1992
In current-dollar terms
Food and beverages               -1.0       -7.9       -2.8      -6.4
Nonfood agriculture                3.5        1.0      -0.9     -11.9
Metals and minerals               7.9       -7.1       -9.0      -2.4
Total nonoil                     2.5      -6.4       -4.0       -4.5
Petroleum                          1.5       30.7     -18.8      -0.2
In real termsa
Total nonoil                     -4.9      -11.4       -6.0       -8.4
Petroleum                        -4.6        23.6    -20.4       -4.5
In special drawing rights (SDR)
Total nonoil                     -3.1      -11.5       -4.8      -6.1
Petroleum                        -3.1        23.6     -19.4      -2.0
NOTE: Weights in the commodity price indexes are commodity exports of all developing countries.
a. Deflated by unit-value index of manufactures exports from the G-5 countries (France, Germany, Japan. the United
Kingdom, and the United States) to the developing countries.
SOURCE: World Bank.
Prices of vegetable oils and meals exhibited    supplies resulted from increased exports from
divergent trends. Palm-oil and  coconut-oil   the republics of the FSU. weaker demand
prices remained generally higher in 1992 be-    resulting from  the economic downturn. rela-
cause of weather-related production shortfalls,   tively uninterrupted production (except for
shortages of rapeseed oil (a substitute product),   copper), and the failure of major producers to
and low stocks of palm oil. The lower-than-    cut production. Copper fared better than other
expected oil content of the soybean harvest    base metals because of major supply problems
boosted vegetable-oil prices despite expecta-   in Zaire and Zambia, phenomenal demand
tions of large crops in the United States and    growth in China, and occasional fears that a
Brazil. Improved demand for vegetable meals,    major labor strike would take place in Chile (it
caused by increased demand for livestock feed    didn't). The large outflow of exports from the
in expectation of economic recovery, kept    republics of the FSU  particularly depressed
their prices steady. Sugar prices rose early in    aluminum and nickel prices. Weakness in the
the year but subsequently declined to end the    German and Japanese automobile industries
year little changed.                             contributed to lower prices for lead, zinc. iron
Cotton prices were kept at low levels during    ore. and steel.
most of the year because of sluggish import        Crude-oil prices, which generallv moved up-
demand from  Europe and Japan and good    ward during the first half of 1992, turned down-
prospects for production in the northern hemi-    ward in the second half. For the year as a
sphere. However. the market balance im-    whole. the price was little changed from the
proved significantly towards the end of the    previous year. The first-half price increases
year when adverse weather and insect damage    were spurred bv concerns about United Na-
reduced cotton production in Central Asia,   tions sanctions against Iraq. reduced Iranian
China, and Pakistan. resulting in a I million-    production and exports, increased demand in
ton  shortfall in world  production  for the    the United States, and the intention on the part
1992/93 crop year. Natural-rubber prices re-    of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
mained relativelv stable, partly thanks to    Countries (OPEC) to limit production for the
buffer-stock purchases by the International    rest of the year. The second half declines
Natural Rubber Organization.                     reflected poor demand resulting from the mild
Metals and minerals prices collapsed during    winter in the northern hemisphere and the
the second half of 1992 amid growing pessi-   economic downturn, increases in OPEC pro-
mism  over worldwide economic prospects.    duction, and the resulting buildup of stocks.
Prior to the collapse. speculative activities-    The return of Kuwait's production to near
partly based on expectations of impending    pre-war levels accounted for a large part of
economic recovery-boosted  prices tempo-    OPEC production increases in 1992. Petroleum
rarily. However, prices fell sharply when these    output by OPEC  producers averaged 23.95
expectations were not met. Throughout the    million barrels a day (bid) in 1992, an increase
year, metals markets were characterized by    of about I million b/d over the previous year.
excess supplies to varying degrees. Excess    This was more than enough to offset declines



Trends in World Trade    35
in non-OPEC production. mostly in the repub-    was laigely attributable to the economic recov-
lies of the FSU. Towards the end of 1992.    ery in North America and to the continuing
OPEC  production  stood  at 25 million b/d.    strong import demand in Latin America and
which prompted calls within the organization        Asia (excluding Japan). which was well above
for tighter production controls. World petro-    the world average. By contrast. the external
leum  consumption  increased 0.8 percent in    trade of the republics of the FSU continued to
1992. as sharp declines in consumption in the    decline sharply. Exports and imports of the
republics of the FSU and Central and Eastern    low-income and middle-income economies. ex-
Europe were more than compensated for by    cluding the FSU. grew by 5.8 percent and 7.2
increases in the  industrial and  developing        percent. respectively. compared xvith 8 percent
countries, notably in the East Asia region.         and 9.4 percent. respectively, in 1991.
In value terms. world merchandise trade
Trends in World Trade                               increased  by 5.s  percent. a significant im-
In 1992, for the first time since 1988. the      provement over the meager 1.5 percent rate of
growth  rate of the volume of merchandise    growth in 1991, to reach $3,700 billion. Among
trade accelerated. The growth rate. estimated    the leading traders. China recorded the stron-
at 4.6 percent. was about 1.6 percentage points    gest expansion in both exports and imports.
higher than that in 1991 (see Table 2-6) and    followed by Malaysia and Brazil (for exports)
about three percentage points higher than the    and Mexico. Portugal. and Saudi Arabia (for
growth of world output. The growth of trade    imports). France replaced Japan as the third
Table 2-6. Selected Trade-performance Indicators, 1965-92
taverage annual percentage change)
Country group and indicator        1965-90   1980-90    1990     1991    1992'
Lou o,cl admiddle-income cou0triesN
Import volume                      4.4       0.8       8.1      9.4      7.2
Export volume                      3.1       3.9       4.7       8.0     5.8
Terms of trade                      1.3     -3.6       2.7    -3.6    -2.1
Sub-Salharan Africac
Import volume                      1.1      -4.1      2-.6       2.4     3.2
Export volume                      1.6       2.3      10.5      9.1      5.6
Terms of trade                    -0.7      -5.3       2.6    -11.9   -5.1
Asia
Import volume                      6.4       7.1       6.5      16.5     9.4
Export volume                      7.9       9.7       8.3      13.1    11.2
Terms of trade                    -0.5      -1.6      -0.1       1.6   -2.8
Europeb
Import volume                      4.1       2.5       2.4   -15.0   -0.8
Export volume                      6.1       3.8      -2.5   -12.9       0.5
Terms of trade                    -1.7       0.5    -10.7       10.4     0.0
Middle East and NVorth Africa
Import volume                      7.1      -4.0      19.1    -0.3       8.1
Export volume                     -0.5      -1.8       5.2      24.6   -2.I
Terms of trade                     5.7      -7.4      20.8   -17.0   -2.5
Latin America and the Caribbean
Import volume                       1.4     - 2.5     10.2      15.4    11.7
Export volume                      1.6       2.9      -2.9       5.0     5.6
Terms of trade                     0.8      -3.0       6.3    -6.2    -1.7
Memorandum itemn
World export volume                4.9       4.2       4.3       3.0     4.6
NOTE: Trade voliumes measLured in constant 1987 prices and exchange rates. Terms of trade are calculated as the ratio of
export price to import price.
n.a. Not available.
a. Estimate.
b. Excluding the republics of the former Soviet Union.
c. Excludes Republic of South Africa.
SOURCE: World Bank.



36   The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
leading importer behind the United States and    American Free Trade Agreement and the
Germany as a result of a decline in the value of   twentv-nine framework agreements signed be-
Japan's imports.                             tween the United States and countries of the
The value of commercial-services exports is   Latin America and the Caribbean region under
estimated by the General Agreement on Tariffs   the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative). In
and Trade to have increased by 8 percent-    East Asia, existing regional arrangements be-
more than 2 percentage points faster than    came the focus of new attention by the Asso-
merchandise exports-and to have reached    ciation of Southeast Asian Nations, and dis-
$960 billion in 1992. The rebound in tourism    cussions started on new formal arrangements.
and transportation services after the Gulf war   The European Community widened the scope
was the main contributor to the increase.    of its trading agreements, reaching out to coun-
In 1992, many developing countries contin-   tries of the European Free Trade Association,
ued on the path of trade liberalization, while   to Central and East European countries, and,
the Uruguay Round remained deadlocked and    possibly, to countries of the Maghreb. In Af-
the risks from further postponement grew as   rica, economic-reform efforts being carried out
various deadlines passed. Concurrent with the    by a growing number of countries have im-
lack of direction and increasing uncertainty at   proved the prospects and opportunities for
the multilateral level, bilateral trade tensions   regional economic integration, particularly to
also escalated as a result of protectionist pres-   harmonize tax and trade policies within the
sures that often accompany economic reces-   region and to reduce barriers to the movement
sion. Negotiations over regional trade arrange-   of production and goods across borders. Prog-
ments. however, became widespread among    ress was made toward the establishment of an
both the industrial and developing countries.   African  Economic  Community  under the
Regionalism became fashionable in the Amer-   Abuja Treaty signed in 1990. The Abuja Treaty
icas, both among developing countries (MER-   calls for coordination, harmonization, and pro-
COSUR. for example) and between the devel-   gressive integration of the activities of existing
oping south and the industrial north  (as   subregional groups as an intermediate step
suggested by interest in accession to the North   towards a continental community.



37
Section Three
The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
Implementing the Bank's                      situation, the government's commitment to
Poverty-reduction Strategy                   poverty reduction, and the nature of the avail-
able data.
The fundamental objective of the World       The findings of poverty assessments have
Bank remains sustainable povertv reduction.   been helpful in designing assistance strategies
As the president of the Bank and the chairman   that support government efforts to promote
of its executive board has said, poverty reduc-   efficient growth, expand access to social serv-
tion is the benchmark against which the insti-   ices, and strengthen safety nets. The poverty
tution's performance must be judged.         assessment for India, for example, concluded
Underpinning this objective is a two-part   that further poverty reduction would require
strategy for reducing poverty that was pro-   that far-reaching structural reforms be imple-
posed in World Development Report 1990. The    mented to promote growth and efficient labor
first element is to promote broad-based eco-   demand, that access by the poor to social-
nomic growth that makes efficient use of the    sector programs be improved. and that the
poor's most abundant asset, labor. The second    effectiveness of targeted programs and safety
element involves ensuring widespread access to   nets be heightened. As a result. Bank re-
basic social services to improve the well being    sources are increasingly being used to help
of the poor and to enable them to participate   stabilize and restructure the economy, and the
fully in the growth of the economy. The strategy    share of projects that supports the develop-
also emphasizes the need to provide safety nets    ment of India's social sector now amounts to
to protect the most vulnerable groups.       about 20 percent of Bank commitments to that
In 1991, policies were adopted by the Bank    country, up from less than I percent ten years
that aimed at fully integrating the strategy into   ago.
Bank operations. A year later, an operational  During fiscal 1993, nine poverty assessments
directive on poverty reduction and a "best-   were completed, increasing their number to
practices" handbook were prepared and dis-   twenty-seven. This number includes two "up-
tributed to Bank staff to help guide them in   dated" assessments (for Indonesia and the
implementing the poverty-reduction strategy.    Philippines). Poverty-assessment updates are
A report prepared by the Bank in fiscal 1993'   used to refine existing poverty-reduction strat-
concludes that:                              egies (see Box 3-1).
* although developing countries have made    Country-specific policy analysis on poverty
substantial progress in reducing poverty over   goes beyond the realm of poverty assessments
the past three decades, there was a loss of   and includes poverty-related country eco-
momentum during the 1980s; and that          nomic and sector work (CESW) and research
* the Bank has made progress in ensuring    and policy work. Most of the CESW  poverty
that its assistance strategies support and com-   analysis is found in sectoral reports that cover
plement efforts by countries to reduce poverty.   human-resource development and food secur-
A crucial element of the Bank's poverty-   ity and, to a lesser extent, population, environ-
reduction efforts is the formulation of country-   ment. and women-in-development issues. Dur-
specific "poverty assessments." A poverty as-   ing fiscal year 1992, approximately  fifty
sessment provides the basis for a collaborative    sectoral studies, covering the education sector.
approach to poverty reduction by country of-   as well as the health. population, and nutrition
ficials and the Bank. It also helps to establish    sector, were completed.
the agenda of issues for the policy dialogue   Progress in  implementing  the  poverty-
between the government and the Bank and    reduction strategy is clearly visible in Bank-
between the government and agencies of the
international donor community. The scope of a  World Bank. 1993. Imnplementing the World Batik's Strat-
poverty assessment necessarily varies from    egy to Rede e PoverrY-Progress and Challenges. Wash-
country to country, depending on the country    ington. D.C.



38    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
Box 3-1. Refining Country-assistance Strategies for Poverty Reduction
The first Indonesia poverty assessment con-   increase the accuracy and efficiency of targeting.
cluded that poverty is decreasing and that, as it   The Bank's country strategy aims to reduce any
becomes more localized. the potential gains from    remaining trade and domestic distortions and
targeting are increasing. The update of the as-   focuses on promoting growth and expanding ac-
sessment continues to investigate the issues of    cess to basic services in the outer islands.
targeting and the pricing of public goods.       The update of the Philippines assessment con-
First, it demonstrates how regional targeting of    cludes that policies for broad-based growth. in-
development resources can reduce poverty with    cluding macroeconomic stability, internationally
the help of regional poverty profiles. Second, it   competitive prices. market-exchange rates, and
evaluates the incidence of public subsidies for    public-expenditure reforms, have helped to re-
education, health, and petroleum products and    duce poverty. The assessment suggests that fur-
assesses the scope for shifting public spending    ther steps should be taken, including reforming
towards the poor. Third, it analyzes how prices   taxes, restructuring public employment, and
have influenced the distribution of benefits from    reforming energy prices and institutions. It
publicly provided education and health services    also recommends introducing specific targeted
and examines how price discrimination might    projects in the areas of nutrition, maternal and
result in better targeting of the poor. Fourth, it   child health, and the urban environment to en-
makes extensive use of the household-level data   sure a supply of clean water and to improve the
sets collected by the government and looks at    health of the urban poor.
ways to improve the database on poverty to
wide statistics on new lending. While shares of    enteen adjustment operations included specific
lending for agriculture and rural development    poverty-reduction measures.
and for water supply and sanitation-two sec-        In its assistance to countries that are prepar-
tors that are among the key targets of poverty-    ing adjustment programs, the Bank works with
reduction efforts-has remained roughly con-    them to (a) design the phasing of programs to
stant recently. lending for human-resource    accommodate the needs of the poor, (b) give
development has increased about fivefold (by    priority to relative price changes in favor of the
dollar amount) since the early 1980s. It in-    poor early in the reform  process. (c) secure
creased from 5 percent of total Bank lending in    adequate resources for the provision of basic
fiscal 1981-83 to 15 percent in fiscal 1991-93    social services aimed at the poor, and (d)
(see Table 3-1).                                  design social safety nets into economic-reform
A second measure, the program of targeted    programs. These efforts better position the
interventions (PTI), counts investment opera-    poor to be major beneficiaries of the economic
tions that include a specific mechanism  for    growth and associated employment opportuni-
reaching the poor or in which the participation    ties that are facilitated by the implementation
of the poor significantly exceeds the propor-    of adjustment programs.
tion of the poor in the population as a whole.      Even in countries where adjustment lending
Estimates for the PTI during fiscal 1993 indi-    does not have an explicit poverty-reduction
cate that 26 percent of Bankwide investment    focus, the Bank's social-development efforts
lending (and 40 percent of IDA  investment    are taking place alongside adjustment lending.
lending) fell within this category (see Table    In Tanzania. for example, where a financial
3-2). In fiscal 1992, fifty-eight projects, whose    sector-adjustment credit does not have an ex-
total value amounted to 24 percent of Bank-    plicit poverty-focused condition. the Bank is
wide investment lending (and 40 percent of    supporting investments aimed directly at the
IDA investment lending), were included in the    poor in agriculture, health, nutrition, and edu-
PTI.2                                             cation.
Bank lending for sector adjustment and            The Bank is also increasingly tailoring its
structural adjustment increasingly supports the    operations to the needs and preferences of
establishment of social safety nets and the    beneficiaries, because programs and projects
protection of public spending for basic social    are more likely to be successful when the
services. The share of adjustment lending that    intended beneficiaries participate in their de-
addresses social issues climbed from 5 percent    sign and implementation. Indeed, the Bank is
in fiscal 1984-86 to 50 percent in fiscal 1990-92.
In fiscal year 1992, eighteen of thirty-two ad-    2These numbers reflect a revision of fiscal 1992 figures
justment operations included specific poverty-      published in Implementing the World Bank's Strategy to
reduction measures. In fiscal 1993, six of sev-    Reduce Poverty-Progress amd Challenges.



mplemenfing the Bank's Poverty-reduction Strategy    39
Table 3-1. Average Annual Lending to Poverty-focused Sectors, Fiscal 1981-93a
1981-83             1987-89              1991-93
(USS tmilli/ons)
Human-resource development                      659                1,059                3,494
Education                                     603                  756                2,047
Population, health, and nutrition              56                  303                1.447
Agriculture and rural development             3,513                3,638                3.623
Water supply and sewerage                       596                  765                1.097
Total Bank lending                         13,261               19,421               22,696
As shaare of Beoo1k lending (%)
Human-resource development                        5                    5                   15
Agriculture and rural development                26                   19                   16
Water supply and sanitation                       4                    4                    5
a. Refers to average annual lending during the period indicated.
working to ensure that the broad participation     Zambia's Social Recovery Project, for in-
of the poor in the design, as well as the imple-    stance, looked to local and technical-assistance
mentation. of projects becomes the norm for its    NGOs as project partners from its inception.
operations. Governments and project agencies    The project. approved in 1991. was the first
are also being encouraged to place greater em-    Bank operation in Zambia's social sector since
phasis on participation. on involving nongov-    1982. It was developed to respond to urgent
ernmental organizations, and on carrying out    needs and to operate on a demand-driven basis
beneficiary assessments. These initiatives are   in which community groups present potential
particularly important because they give the    subprojects for consideration. Projects are se-
poor a voice in poverty-focused operations.      lected on the basis of specific criteria such as
There are several reasons why governments   the inclusion of beneficiaries who are poor or
may find participatory approaches producing   w*ho belong to vulnerable groups. In addition.
net benefits, despite some economic and polit-   responsible local subproject committees must
ical costs: (a) more accurate and representative    he able to complete the projects effectively
information about the needs, priorities, and    without significant technical assistance from
capabilities of local people and about the im-    outside the community. Priority is given to
pact of government initiatives and programs:    projects that improve nutrition, health, and the
(hI adaptation of programs to meet local con-    educational status of women and children, as
ditions so that scarce resources can be em-    well as to those that are submitted by commu-
ployed more effectively: (c) delivery of better    nity groups or NGOs with a proven capacity.
quality  andl  demand-responisive  services:    To ensure project sustainability and local in-
(d) mobilization of local resources to augment    volvement, communities contribute to project
or even substitute for scarce governmental    costs with labor, materials. or cash.
resources: and te) increased public recognition    Beneficiary assessments. which evaluate the
of governmental achievements and legitimacy.    sociocultural conditions of the beneficiary pop-
Rigorous empirical evidence is scant but    ulation on the basis of interviews with benefi-
nevertheless positive about the benefits of par-    ciaries. aim at ensuring that benefits are reach-
ticipation  in relation to development effec-    ing intended groups and that projects are
tiveness. A  review  in  1987 bv the Bank's    providing the right kind of infrastructure and
Operations Evaluation Department of forty-two    services to meet beneficiary needs. The Bank
Bank-assisted  irrigation  projects concluded    is supporting a growing number of these as-
that the economic rates of return were consis-    sessments. which at-e conducted by local per-
tently higher for those projects that involved    sonnel, with orientation provided by the Bank.
farmers in planning and management of the    Twenty beneficiary  assessments were com-
irrigation systems. A  study by the LUnited    pleted in fiscal 1992 and fiscal 1993 and covered
States Agency for International Development    a wide iange of sectors, including health, pop-
of fifty-two projects in various sectors in 1990    ulation, education. and food security. The expe-
showed a positive correlation between partici-   rience with completed beneficiary assessments
pation and project success. The correlation    indicates that they have helped to improve the
between participation and success was almost    design of projects and sectoral policies.
as strong as between the availability of finance   The Bank's progress report states that the
and success.                                     key challenges in poverty reduction in the



40    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
Table 3-2. Lending for the Program of Targeted Interventions, Fiscal 1993
(millions of US dollars)
Region and country     Project name                                    IBRD    IDA      Total
Africa
Burkina Faso         Food Security and Nutrition                       -       7.5      7.5
Burundi              Social Action                                     -       10.4    10.4
Cape Verde           Transport and Infrastructure                      -       12.5    12.5
Chad                 Basic Education                                   -       19.3     19.3
Gambia, The          Agricultural Services                             -       12.3    12.3
Ghana                National Livestock Services                       -      22.5    22.5
Ghana                Urban Transport                                   -      76.2    76.2
Ghana                Primary School Development                        -      65.1    65.1
Guinea-Bissau        Social Sector                                     -       8.8      8.8
Kenya                Emergency Drought Recovery                        -      20.0    20.0
Madagascar           Food Security and Nutrition                       -      21.3    21.3
Madagascar           Rural Financial Technical Assistance              -       3.7      3.7
Malawi               Agricultural Services                             -      45.8    45.8
Malawi               Rural Financial Services                          -      25.0    25.0
Mauritania           Construction Capacity and Employment              -       12.0    12.0
Mozambique           Rural Rehabilitation                              -       20.0    20.0
Senegal              Second Human-resources Development                -      40.0    40.0
Sierra Leone         Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation            -      26.0    26.0
Sierra Leone         Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance              -      45.0    45.0
Uganda               Primary Education and Teacher Development         -      52.6    52.6
Zambia               Education Rehabilitation                          -       32.0    32.0
Total                                                                 -     578.0   578.0
East Asia and Pacific
China                Sichuan Agricultural Development                  -      147.0   147.0
Indonesia            Groundwater Development                          54.0      -      54.0
Indonesia            Third Community Health and Nutrition             93.5      -      93.5
Indonesia            Water and Sanitation for Low-income Communities   80.0     -      80.0
Malaysia             Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector    141.0      -      141.0
Papua New Guinea    Population and Family Planning                     6.9      -       6.9
Philippines          Second Irrigation Operation Support              51.3      -      51.3
Philippines          Urban Health and Nutrition                        -      70.0    70.0
Total                                                              426.7   217.0   643.7
Souti Asia
Bangladesh           Female Secondary Education Assistance             -      68.0    68.0
India                Bihar Plateau Development                         -      117.0    117.0
India                Karnataka Rural Water Supply and Environmental    -      92.0    92.0
Sanitation
India                National Leprosy Elimination                      -      85.0    85.0
India                Second Integrated Child Development Services      -      194.0   194.0
India                Uttar Pradesh Basic Education                     -      165.0   165.0
India                Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation             -      54.7    54.7
India                Rubber                                            -      92.0    92.0
Pakistan             Balochistan Primary Education                     -      106.0    106.0
Pakistan             Northern Resource Management                      -      28.8    28.8
Pakistan             Second Family Health                              -      48.0    48.0
Sri Lanka            Community Water Supply and Sanitation             -      24.3    24.3
Total                                                                     1,074.8  1,074.8



Implementing the Bank's Poverty-reduction Strategy   41
Region and country      Project name                                IBRD      IDA     Total
Europe and Central Asia
Albania               Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot                -        2.4      2.4
Armenia               Institution Building                          12.0      -       12.0
Hungary               Pension Administration and Health Insurance  132.0      -      132.0
Russia                Employment Services and Social Protection     70.0      -       70.0
Turkey                East Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation        77.0      -       77.0
Turkey                Employment and Training                       67.0      -       67.0
Turkey                Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction  285.0     -      285.0
Total                                                            643.0      2.4    645.4
Latin America and the Caribbean
Bolivia               Integrated Child Development                   -       50.7     50.7
Bolivia               Second Social Investment Fund                  -       40.0     40.0
Brazil                Second Northeast Basic Education             212.0      -      212.0
Brazil                Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution
Control                                    145.0      -      145.0
Brazil                Water Quality and Pollution Control-
Sao Paulo/Parana                          245.0       -      245.0
Chile                 Health Sector Reform                          90.0      -       90.0
Colombia              Municipal Health Services                     50.0      -       50.0
Costa Rica            Second Water Supply and Sewerage              26.0      -       26.0
Ecuador               Second Social Development                     70.0      -       70.0
Guatemala             Social Investment Fund                        20.0      -       20.0
Honduras              Nutrition and Health                           -       25.0     25.0
Jamaica               Reform of Secondary Education                 32.0      -       32.0
Mexico                Initial Education                             80.0      -       80.0
Mexico                Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement    174.0      -      174.0
Nicaragua             Social Investment Fund                         -       25.0     25.0
Paraguay              Third Rural Water Supply and Sanitation       23.0      -       23.0
Venezuela             Endemic Disease Control                       94.0      -       94.0
Total                                                           1,261.0    140.7  1,401.7
Middle East and North Africa
Algeria               Housing Completion and Sector Development    200.0      -      200.0
Egypt                 Basic Education Improvement                    -       55.5     55.5
Egypt                 Matruh Resource Management                     -       22.0     22.0
Iran, Islamic
Republic of         Primary Health Care and Family Planning      141.4      -      141.4
Jordan                Health Management                             20.0      -       20.0
Morocco               Land Development for Low-income Families     130.0      -      130.0
Yemen                 Basic Education                                -       19.7     19.7
Yemen                 Family Health                                  -       26.6     26.6
Total                                                            491.4    123.8    615.2
Grand total                                                    2,822.1  2,136.7  4.958.8
PTI as a percent of investment lending                            20.4    39.7      25.8
- Zero.
NOTE: For the purpose of this table. investment lending' is defined as all lending save for adjustment and debt and
debt-service reduction operations.



42   The World Bank Fiscal Year 1993
years ahead are to extend and deepen poverty-    knowledge and practice. It is also essential to
reduction efforts by both developing countries    enhancing the contribution of women to devel-
and the Bank.                                  opment and building national capacitv to de-
The main challenge facing developing coun-    sign and implement sound environmental poli-
tries is to resume the rapid rate of poverty    cies.
reduction that had taken place in earlier years.  The Bank's 1987 reorganizationi marked a
In countries where there has been little prog-   turning point in its involvement in human de-
ress in reducing poverty, the report advocates    velopment. The reorganization created special
that policies be adopted to restore the climate    divisions for human-resource  development
for sustainable growth and human-resource    that generated a steady, rapid growth of the
development. Countries that have achieved    sector. in terms of both volume of lending and
considerable success in reducing poverty need    number of projects. as well as analysis
to continue policies that promote an efficient    and research. Additional organizational steps.
and equitable pattern of growth as well as to   taken  in  October  1992. strengthened  the
implement specific interventions that reach the    Bank's ability to deliver high-quality and rele-
remaining poor. These are challenges facing    vant services to its borrowers by establishiinga
countries that are committed to reducing pov-    vice presidency for Human Resources Devel-
erty and that "own" the projects that have    opment and Operations Policy. The new vice
poverty reduction as a goal-a prerequisite to    presidency Ia) coordinates policies of. and
sustainable poverty-reduction operations.      provides operational support to. the Bank's six
The main challenges facing the Bank are the    operational regions in the field of human-
completion of its poverty-assessment work as   resource development and (b) provides guid-
scheduled, the incorporation of their results   ance to the regions on operational policy.
into country-assistance strategies, the need to  The rapidly increasing involvement of the
intensify analytic work that supports its policy    Bank in lending for social and human develop-
dialogue with borrowing countries. and to find    ment provides a good indication of the growing
the appropriate staff skill mix so as to take full   awareness of social programs as good invest-
advantage of the Bank's poverty-reduction fo-    ments. Bank lending for human-development
cus. Recruitment efforts in fiscal 1994 are    programs increased fi-om an average of $1.1
being directed at identified areas of shortage,   billion a year in fiscal 1987-89 to $3 billion in
including those in the social sciences and pop-    1990-92. and to $3.8 billion in fiscal 1993. For
ulation and human resources.                   the same years. the number of projects has
At the operational level, indicators for track-    increased from twenty-six to forty-five and to
ing the impact of poverty-reduction interven-    fifty-seven. Current investment lending for
tions are being developed to provide a more    human-resource development has nearly qulin-
systematic basis for evaluating a project's ef-   tupled since the early 1980s-from 5 percent of
fectiveness and  for fine-tuning  its design    total Bank lending (fiscal 1981-83) to 14 per-
throughout the project cycle. These evalua-    cent (fiscal 1990-92) and to 16 percent (fiscal
tions are particularly important in the case of    1993). In expanding its lending for human-
safety-net measures that are increasingly being    resource development, the Bank has fulfilled
used to direct support quickly to the poor.    the commitments made during the tenure of
Another challenge facing the Bank is involv-    Barber Conable as president of the Bank (see
ing beneficiaries more extensively during the    Box 3-2).
project cycle. This will require Bank staff to be  In tandem with an expanded volume of lend-
trained and examples of "best practice" to be    ing. lending objectives have evolved-from  a
disseminated.                                  relatively narrow emphasis on physical infra-
The Bank will issue annual progress reports   structure to sectorwide and policy-based strat-
on its povertv-reduction  strategy  that are    egies. This evolution was driven by the need to
based on the evaluation of on-the-ground re-    address the social consequences of the macro-
sults of operational work.                     economic crisis in many countries in the 1980s
and by the accumulating evidence that a coher-
Human-resource Development                     ent and effective framework for social policy is
Investment in human resources is at the    essential to sustain economic progress. Inten-
heart of the Bank's development-assistance    sified support for basic services to reduce
strategy in the 1990s. It addresses the objec-    poverty and a focus on building experience in
tives of poverty reduction through intensified    new areas of lending resulted.
support of effective primary-level services and  Over the past two decades, Bank lending for
lavs the foundation for efficient economic    human-resource development has largely been
growth through investments in human capital    committed for education, and its focus has
and transfers of scientific and technological    been towards development of basic education.



Human-resource Deve opment   43
Box 3-2. Old Commitments Fulflled, New Ones Made
In March 1990. Barber Conable. the seventh        Two other commitments made by Mr. Con-
president of the World Bank. pledged that the    able-to increase lending for population, health.
Bank would double its lending for education over    and nutrition to an annual average $800 million
the next three years to an annual figure of more    over the period fiscal 1990-92 and to increase
than $1.5 billion. Lending for education in fiscal    support for freestanding environmental projects
years 1991. 1992. and 1993 totaled $2.3 billion,   to nearly $1.3 billion-were met in years previous
$1.9 billion, and $2.0 billion, respectively. for an    to fiscal 1993.
annual average of slightly more than $2 billion.  In July 1992. Lewis Preston, Mr. Conable's
Mr. Conable also committed the Bank to a    successor as World Bank president. wrote, in a
tripling of lending for primary education during    letter to 1.400 parliamentarians from twenty-six
the same (fiscal 1991-93) three-year period. Such    countries about future lending by the Bank in
lending, he said, would account for between 30    support of population. health, and nutrition. Dur-
percent and 40 percent of total education lending.    ing the period fiscal 1993-95, he noted that the
Primary education investments by the Bank    Bank planned a "further substantial increase'
amounted to $1,114 million (49 percent of the    over the previous three years-in both dollar-
total) in fiscal 1991. $792 million (42 percent of    volume terms and as a share of total IBRD and
the total) in fiscal 1992. and $1.011 million (50    IDA lending to the sector. In addition, he pro-
percent of the total) in fiscal 1993.          jected that IBRD and IDA lending for primary
The Bank's president also projected that lend-    health would be in excess of 5 percent of total
ing for primary health care might rise from about   lending over the same period.
3 percent to about 5 percent of total Bank lending  As for future commitments in support of edu-
within a three-to-four-year period. In fiscal 1991.    cation, Mr. Preston wrote that they. too. would
$1,221 million in Bank funds supported primary    increase in the fiscal year 1993-95 period over
health care (5.4 percent of total Bank lending).   levels attained during the previous three years,
Such lending eased somewhat in fiscal 1992 ($745    and that assistance to basic education would rise
million, or 3.4 percent of the total) before rising    above the 42 percent mark achieved in fiscal
again in fiscal 1993 ($1.325 million. or 5.6 percent    1992.
of the total).
Lending for education has increased from  an    amounted to $1,812 million for twenty-five
average $700 million during the 1980s to an    projects.
average $1,907 million during the first four         The widening context for population activi-
years of the 1990s. In fiscal 1993, thirtv-two     ties since they began in 1970-integration with
projects, with total commitments of $2,006    health and nutrition in 1980 and with other
million, were approved.                            social-sector operations since 1987-has been
Lending for education has evolved towards    associated at each stage with considerable ex-
supporting broad-based education reforms and       pansion  in the volume of lending and the
policy-based lending. In this way, Bank lend-    number of projects. In the 1970s. lending aver-
ing focuses on and helps to address weak-    aged  $30 million  a year: from  fiscal 1980
nesses in the sector's institutional environment    through fiscal 1987. $50 million: from  fiscal
in order to strengthen a government's long-    1988 to  1992. $164 million. In fiscal 1993.
term policy framework for education. Further,    population projects or population components
a concern with both access and equity charac-    in other social-sector projects amounted to
terizes Bank lending for- education: strategies    $181.1 million.
to target girls and women, the poor. and dis-        The expansion of Bank lending for popula-
advantaged gr-oups nowv underscore its educa-    tion has been the result of several factors. The
tion operations. There is also expanding inter-    demand environment has changed, and many
est in nonformal education and early childhood     countries that previously refused to support
development. Three projects approved during    family planning have begun to do so for a
fiscal 1993, for instance. are targeted at the    variety of reasons. In some cases-Nigeria, for
development of preschool children.                 example-countries that used to maintain that
Bank lending for population. health, and    economic development required more people
nutrition (PHN) has expanded even more rap-    have come to recognize that the costs of pro-
idly. Average yearly lending to this sector    viding them  with education, health care, and
during the 1980s was $207 million, while lend-    jobs are beyond governments' means. Other
ing during fiscal 1991-93 has averaged $1,447    countries have not officially embraced compre-
million. In fiscal 1993, Bank lending for PHN      hensive population policies but recognize the



44   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
importance to maternal and child health of    short-term and long-term povertv-reduction in-
spacing births and limiting f'amily size: in these    terventions with measures to address immedi-
countries, aspects of family planning are inte-    ately the high rate of malnutrition found among
grated into the overall delivery of health serv-    children under the age of five. Project imple-
ices. In addition, the country focus put into    mentation is centered on nongovernmental or-
place during the Bank's 1987 reorganization    ganizations, community groups, and the pri-
has increased the understanding bv Bank staff    vate sector with their proven skills in efficient
of the institutions, attitudes, and capacities of    delivery of programs for the most vulnerable
borrowing countries: as a result, lending strat-    groups. While food supplements are being pro-
egies that are better suited to individual coun-    vided to malnourished children, community
tries have been developed.                       nutrition-education and IEC (information. ed-
Lending for health increasingly emphasizes    ucation, communications) campaigns on ways
strengthening capacity for formulating health   to best feed infants and young children and on
policy, program  planning, and management    how  to become aware of iodine-deficiency
and includes the participation of beneficiaries    disorders also are receiving high priority. Ulti-
and nongovernmental organizations in project    mately. the project's community-nutrition pro-
preparation. Greater attention is also being    gram  will enable households to make more
given to women's health and its effect on the    efficient use of resources available to them so
health and welfare of families. to selected    as to prevent the occurence of chronic malnu-
priority diseases (AIDS. in particular), and to   trition among their children.
the financing and management of the health         It is increasingly realized not only that in-
sector, including hospitals.                     vesting in human-resource development is
Projects are increasingly being designed to    good economics but also that investments that
emphasize safe motherhood in view of the high    give specific consideration to women's issues
maternal mortality that persists in many coun-    have consistently high rates of return.
tries but which is preventable by improved         Educated people-especially educated wo-
prenatal and delivery care, as well as family    men-bring benefits to society as a whole. For
planning. For example. a health and nutrition    example. educated women have healthier chil-
project in Honduras will benefit an estimated    dren. In Africa. one of five children dies before
120.000 women through income transfers, in   the age of five if the mother has no education.
the form of food coupons, and increased ac-    The probability is more than halved for chil-
cess to preventive health services, especially    dren whose mothers have seven years of edu-
nutrition and family-planning education. It will   cation. Educating women matters more for
also provide comprehensive prenatal and post-   children's health (and indeed. children's edu-
natal care, scheduled screening and treatment    cation) than educating men. From  a social
for risk factors, and support for optimal breast-    point of view. returns are greater from invest-
feeding practices. At the end of fiscal 1993.   ing more in girls' education than in boys'.
more than seventy projects with "safe mother-    Manv studies show that mothers channel more
hood" components were under implementa-    of their own income to expenditures on chil-
tion as compared with nine in fiscal 1986.       dren than do fathers, and in virtually all soci-
Since 1987. the Bank has expanded its direct    eties. women are more heavily involved in the
lending for nutrition operations eighteenfold-    immediate care of children and in the critical
from $50 million in total project costs for fiscal    decisions about food, sanitation, and general
1987-89 to $900 million in 1990-92. and to $357    nurturing. all of which affect children's health
million in fiscal 1993. These amounts do not    and development.
include nutrition components in structural-       It is also true that educated women have
adjustment and sectoral-adjustment projects or    fewer children. In South Asia. women with no
food-t'or-work operations. Of the twenty-five    education have seven children, on average:
projects in the fiscal 1993 population. health,    women with seven or more years of education
and nutrition portfolio. fourteen include nutri-    have fewer than four.
tion components. The new generation of nutri-      The Bank's women-in-development (WID)
tion projects is often designed in the context of    initiative-designed to address women s needs
overall poverty-reduction strategies and em-    in economic and sector work and in the lending
phasizes the provision of nutrition services    program-has been identified, since 1987. as
targeted to reach the poor and disadvantaged    having a "special operational emphasis. "The
groups and children under the age of three and    aim is to integrate gender aspects in the Bank's
their mothers.                                   operational and sectoral work. Those efforts
The Madagascar Food Security and Nutri-    during the past year showed significant progress.
tion Project, approved in fiscal 1993. is char-    Preliminary estimates indicate that about 45
acteristic of such projects, as it combines both    percent of all projects approved during the



The Environment   45
year contained gender-specific action and in-    Well-formulated policy objectives and good
terventions, Up from 38 percent in fiscal year   technical project design will yield desired out-
1992 (and up from  II percent in fiscal year    comes only through effective implementation,
1988, WID's first full year of special opera-    however.  Performance  ratings  of  Bank-
tional emphasis).                              supported human-development projects have
Slightly more than nine out of ten projects in   been consistently above average. While the
the population, health. and nutrition sector    rapid expansion and the increasing complexity
contained project-specific actions or condi-   of the social-sector project portfolio have led
tions designed to help women, while 83 percent   to some recent deterioration in portfolio per-
of projects that addressed emplovment, train-   formance. the proportion of projects facing
ing. and labor-market issues had WID compo-    significant implementation problems is still be-
nents. Two of three education projects and    low  the Bankwide average. Inevitably, how-
three of five projects in the agriculture sector    ever, as the portfolio expands into new areas
addressed WID concerns.                        and supports new objectives, new implemen-
A recent review reveals a markedi improve-   tation challenges arise. The extent to which
ment in the quality and design of gender-   they are addressed effectively will be a key
specific activities in recently approved pro-   factor determining the futLre impact of Bank
jects. This  improvement  is expected  to   lending ftor human development.
contribute to ensuring successful implementa-
tion and to bridging the gap between project    The Environment
intent-as reflected in its objectives, activities.  The United Nations Conference on Environ-
and measures-and what actually happens on    ment and Development (UNCED). which took
the ground.                                    place in June 1992, provided added impetus to
The Bank's large, diverse lending program    the efforts of the Bank and its borrowing
for human-resource development is served by    member countries to protect the environment
an operationally focused program of research    and promote sustainable development.
and policy work that has been explicitlv de-     In the Bank, a new. vice presidencv for
signed to help the Bank improve operational    Environmentally  Sustainable  Development
practice by addressing gaps in knowledge    (ESD) was established to develop a more effec-
about "what works."  'with what benefits."   tive Bank response to the challenge of achiev-
and "at what cost": disseminating knowledge    ing environmentally sustainable and equitable
about best practices: and fostering collegial    development. The vice presidency. which in-
exchange and a shared sense of purpose among    cludes an Environmental Department. an Ag-
staff dispersed throughout the Bank.           riculture and Natural Resources Department,
Policy work provides analytical underpin-    and a Transport. Water. and Urban Develop-
ning for lending in new areas and the treatment    ment Department. is responsible for support-
of priority issues such as the relative roles of   ing the Bank's operational departments in de-
government and private providers in the social   livering quality assistance to member countries:
sectors. the efficiency of public provision of   identifying, codifying. and disseminating best
services, and the management of services. This    practices and lessons of experience: and pro-
policy work draws upon the lessons of opera-    viding overall coordination with official and
tional experience, from studies by the Bank    private agencies contributing to (or interested
and outside sources. and from the contribu-   in) the Bank's operational and policy work.
tions of scholars and polickmakers from devel-   During fiscal 1993. the Bank elaborated en-
oping cotintries. often in policy seminars orga-    vironmental strategies for several regions and
nized jointly  with  the  Bank's  Economic    countries. expanded research on a broad range
Development Institute,                         of environmental topics, and continued im-
Several policy and best-practice papers from  proving the integration of environmental con-
the wvork program have been discussed by the    cerns in its country-policy dialogue, economic
Bank's executive directors: primary education    and sector work. and lending operations.
(fiscal 1990). vocational training (fiscal 1991).  Regional strategies were developed for Asia.
faamilv planning (fiscal 1992'. and health (fiscal    Central and Eastern Europe. and the Sahelian
1993). the subject of World Development Re-    countries of sub-Saharan Africa.
poirt 1993 (see Box 3-3). Best-practice papers   The Bank's environmental strategy report
on women in development. micronutrients.   for Asia ftound that environmental problems
and women's health: policy papers on higher    are pervasive in all Asian countries and that
education and secondary education: a sector    countries in both South Asia and East Asia
review  of Bank work on population; and a    face increasing urban-industrial pollution. at-
sector policy paper on education are at various    mospheric emissions, soil erosion, land degra-
stages of preparation.                         dation. and loss of biodiversity. The social



46    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
Box 3-3. Investing in Health
Countries at all levels of income have achieved    improve their own health. Growth policies (in-
great advances in health. Although the likelihood    cluding, where necessary, economic-adjustment
that a child in a developing country will die    policies) that ensure income gains for the poor
before reaching the age of five remains an unac-    are essential. So, too. is expanded investment in
ceptably high one in ten. today's level is less than    education, particularly of girls.
half that of 1960. Declines in poverty have al-  The second is to redirect government spending
lowed households to increase consumption of the    on health. Too much is spent on specialized care
food, clean water, and shelter necessary for good    in tertiary facilities that provide too little gain for
health. Rising educational levels have meant that   the money spent. Too little is spent on low-cost.
people are better able to apply new scientific    highly effective programs that most help the
knowledge to promote their own and their fami-   poor. A redirection of about 40 percent of current
lies' health. Health systems have met the demand    government health expenditures could finance
for better health through an expanded supply of    public-health programs and essential clinical
services providing increasingly potent interven-    services that would reduce the burden of disease
tions.                                         in developing countries by more than 20 percent,
Yet in developing countries, and especially for   the equivalent of averting 9 million infant deaths.
the poor in them, there continues to be a heavy  Third, there should be greater private-sector
burden of disease-much of which can be pre-   involvement in health. Government finance of
vented or inexpensively cured. If the under-five    inexpensive, cost-effective services for the poor
mortality rate in developing countries were re-    would leave coverage of a broad range of clinical
duced to the level of the industrialized countries,   services to private finance or to social insurance.
II million fewer children would die each year. At    Government regulation can strengthen private
the same time, increasing numbers of developing    insurance markets by improving incentives for
countries are beginning to face the problems of    wide coverage and cost control. Even for pub-
rising health-system costs now experienced in the    licly financed clinical services, governments can
industrialized countries.                      encourage competition and private-sector in-
World Development Report 1993 advances a    volvement in service supply.
three-pronged approach to government policies
for improving health in developing countries.'  World Bank. 1993. World Development Report 1993.
The first is for governments to foster an eco-  New York: Oxford University Press.
nomic environment that enables households to
costs of environmental degradation have also    commitments by the various governments and
risen in the form of growing health costs and    aid agencies involved. While the action pro-
mortality, loss of productivity. reduced output    gram did not present a list of specific projects,
in national resource-based sectors, and deteri-   it did contain an inventory of major pollution
oration in overall environmental quality.         sources in the countries of Central and Eastern
The Bank's analysis concluded, however,    Europe. an extensive list of locations where
that there was room for optimism-given the    environment-related  public-health  problems
increasing desire of Asian governments to    have been documented, and an indication of
incorporate  environmental concerns among    the types of investment in different subsectors
their development goals and the region's con-    that are likely to be most cost-effective in
tinued  robust economic  performance. The    addressing serious environmental problems.
strategy paper proposed that a combination of    Work on this program  will continue with a
instruments-reformed policies, expansion of    view to developing country strategies within
new  technologies, financial resources, and    the regional framework and identifying invest-
strengthened  public-sector  institutions-be      ment projects.
used to minimize the adverse environmental          A strategy for environmentally sustainable
effects of future demographic. urban, and in-    development was drafted during the year to
dustrial growth.                                  help orient the Bank's assistance to the Sahe-
The Bank also assessed environmental pri-   lian region of sub-Saharan Africa (Burkina
orities in. and proposed an environmental-    Faso, Cape Verde, Chad. The Gambia, Mali,
action program  for, the countries of Central    Mauritania. Niger, and Senegal). Based on the
and Eastern Europe. The objectives of the    findings of a survey of a broad range of issues
program are to facilitate consensus on environ-    specific to that subregion (including rapid pop-
mental priorities within and among countries of    ulation growth. competition for land and wa-
the region and among interested donors and to    ter, land degradation, fisheries depletion, and
endorse a mix of policy, investment, and insti-   river-basin development), the strategic objec-
tutional actions that require complementary    tives proposed are to promote intensification



The Environment  47
of sustainable agricultural-production systems.  The Environmental Program for the Danube
stimulate urban economies and rural-urban    River Basin is a multidonor effort to address
linkages. and improve environmental-manage-   environmental issues and improve the environ-
ment processes-each of which is then broken    mental management in the basin, which in-
down into a number of more specific goals.   cludes parts of Bulgaria. the Czech Republic.
Together with members of the international    Hungary, Romania. and the Slovak Republic.
donor community, the Bank also continued or   The Bank is the responsible executing agency
launched environmental work on several im-   for preinvestment activities funded by the
portant international water bodies, including    Global Environment Facility. During the past
the Mediterranean. Black. and Baltic seas and    year. preinvestment studies were undertaken
the Danube river.                            in six tributary river basins: they will identify
The Mediterranean Environmental Techni-   point and nonpoint sources of pollution of high
cal Assistance Program (METAP). which is  local and regional priority where investments
funded primarily by the Commission of the    can be implemented quickly.
European Communities. the European Invest-     One of the principal ways in which the Bank
ment Bank. the United Nations Development   helps member countries to improve their envi-
Programme, and the World Bank, supports the    ronmental management is by assisting in the
development of environmental projects, the    elaboration and implementation of national
strengthening of environmental-management   environmental-action plans (EAPs). EAPs,
capacity, and the establishment of environ-   which provide a basis for the Bank's dialogue
mentally sound policies among the countries of   with borrowers on environmental issues, de-
the Mediterranean basin. During fiscal 1993,   scribe a country's major environmental con-
the primary focus was on the implementation    cerns and problems and formulate policies and
and completion of the first stage (1990-92) of   actions to address whatever problems are iden-
the program and the initiation of the second   tified. During the negotiations on the ninth
phase, which will extend through 1995. The   replenishment of IDA  resources (IDA-9),
Bank completed seven project-preparation ac-   agreement was reached that all IDA-recipient
tivities, four policy studies, and a number of   countries should complete EAPs by the end of
training events during the year.             the IDA-9 period. EAPs were subsequently
The Program  for Environmental Manage-   initiated for IBRD borrowers, as well.
ment and Protection of the Black Sea, officially  By the end of fiscal 1993. a substantial num-
launched in June 1993, aims to reverse the    ber of IDA-eligible countries, including Alba-
process of environmental degradation and un-   nia. Benin, Burkina Faso. Egypt, The Gambia,
sustainable resource use in the coastal coun-   Ghana. Guinea-Bissau. Honduras, Lesotho,
tries (Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania. Russia.   Madagascar. Maldives. Nicaragua. Nigeria, the
Turkey, and Ukraine) of the Black sea area.   Philippines, Rwanda, and Sri Lanka. had com-
During the past year, the Bank prepared an    pleted  their  national environmental-action
educational brochure, identified a priority in-   plans. National environmental-action plans are
vestment portfolio of thirteen projects, and    under preparation in virtually all other active
carried out an initial survey of biodiversity-   IDA borrowers, and they are expected to be
conservation needs.                          completed during fiscal 1994. National environ-
The Baltic Sea Environment Program  in-   mental-action plans for major IDA borrowers
volves the phased implementation of a long-   such as Bolivia, Burundi, China, India, Nepal,
term program  directed at reducing pollution    and Pakistan are expected to be completed in
affecting the Baltic sea and its catchment area.   early fiscal 1994. Several borrowers from the
Implementation of the program, begun in 1990,   IBRD have also completed EAPs (Botswana.
is coordinated by the Baltic Marine Environ-    Bulgaria, Poland. and Tunisia, for example),
ment Protection Commission (the Helsinki   and EAPs are under way in most other middle-
Commission) with the participation of the four-   income countries.
teen riparian states, international financial in-  As part of the effort to better integrate
stitutions, and  nongovernmental organiza-   environmental concerns into its economic and
tions. A major issue addressed during fiscal   sector work. the Bank is giving increasing
1993 was the preparation of an operational   attention to environmental issues in country
framework for the long-term implementation of   economic memoranda. Examples include re-
the program. The World Bank plans, subject to   cent reports for Central and Eastern Europe,
formal agreement with the concerned govern-   Malaysia, the Pacific islands, Sao Tome and
ments. to undertake the preparation of envi-   Principe, and Thailand.
ronmental projects in each of the three Baltic  A key area of support for improved country
states and of a municipal water and sewerage    environmental management is through the
project in Poland.                           Bank's lending operations. In fiscal 1993,



48   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
twenty-four projects with primarily environ-    A first of what will be annual reviews of the
mental objectives, involving commitments to-   assessment process confirmed the view that
taling $1.99 billion, were approved. (Projects   environment assessment is a valuable tool for
are deemed to be primarily environmental if  identifying project problems as well as a means
either environmental costs or benefits exceed    of solving them. thereby strengthening project
50 percent of total costs or benefits.) In fiscal   performance and sustainability. There was also
1992, nineteen such projects, with commit-   evidence of improved development planning
ments totaling $1.2 billion, were approved.   and environmental management in some case-
Several of the projects-in  Bolivia, Chile,   study countries, as the need to produce an
China, Ghana, and the Republic of Korea-    environment-assessment report for a Bank-
focused primarily on the strengthening of en-   financed project resulted in the adoption of
vironmental institutions or the provision of   national environment-assessment processes.
environmental technical assistance at the na-   The review also concluded that the limited
tional level. In addition, another thirtv projects   capacity of borrowers to carry out environ-
contained significant environmental compo-    mental assessments was one of the main con-
nents.                                        straints to full implementation of the Bank's
Bank operations were approved in both the    environment-assessment directive. It recom-
"brown" and "green" environmental agen-    mended, therefore, that borrower capacity
das. The "brown" agenda refers to the imme-   building, including technical assistance, insti-
diate and most critical environmental problems    tutional support, in-country training, and the
facing cities and includes three main areas-    development of environmental databases, be
energy use and efficiency. urban and industrial   given greater attention so as to help ensure that
pollution control, and urban-environmental   environment-assessment documents adequately
management (most of the energy and pollution-    cover all relevant issues.
control projects address one or more key as-    Another review, this one an independent
pects of urban-environmental management).   review  of the Sardar Sarovar (Narmada)
The "green" agenda, which refers to the pro-   Projects in India, focused attention, among
motion of sustainable natural-resource man-   other things, on the Bank's resettlement poli-
agement and the reduction of resource degra-   cies. which provide that, on resettlement, dis-
dation, which causes loss of productivity.   placed persons should regain at least their
includes agriculture and land management, for-   previous standard of living.
est management, water-resource and water-       The independent review was commissioned
shed management, and marine and coastal-   in 1991 by Barber Conable. then president of
zone management. It also includes biodiversity   the Bank, in the midst of growing controversy
conservation, one of the four programmatic    over the projects. The review team, headed by
areas assigned to the Global Environment Fa-   the former administrator of the United Nations
cility. In addition, the Bank's concern for the    Development Programme, was asked to assess
social aspects of environment has been high-   the implementation of the resettlement and
lighted by the creation during the year of the    rehabilitation and environmental aspects of the
Social Policy and Resettlement Division in the    projects, whose aim was to bring water. elec-
Environment Department to advise on social   tricity, and employment opportunities to one
components of operations.                     of the poorest, most drought-prone regions of
In addition, policy papers were prepared and    western India.
subsequently discussed by the executive board   The report of the review team, which was
in each of these environmental agendas. They    delivered to the Bank in June 1992, identified a
concerned the Bank's role in the electric power    number of deficiencies in the appraisal. imple-
sector, in energy efficiency and conservation.   mentation. and supervision of the projects and
and in water-resources management (see Box    called on the Bank to "step back" from the
3-4 and Box 3-5).                             projects and consider them  afresh. It also
Central to integrating environmental con-   recommended that a review of Bank proce-
cerns into the Bank's activities is the 'Opera-    dures be undertaken to establish whether the
tional Directive on Environmental Assess-    problems found in the case of Sardar Sarovar
ment," which was issued in October 1989. The    were at issue elsewhere.
directive mandates an environmental assess-     In October 1992, the executive directors of
ment for all projects that may have a significant   the Bank met to discuss the independent re-
negative impact on the environment. Those    view's recommendations as well as Bank man-
expected to have significant, sensitive, irre-   agement's proposals for the next steps to be
versible, or diverse impacts are classified as   taken. The directors concurred with the anal-
Category "A' and require a full environmental    vsis of the independent review and, on the
assessment.                                   basis of a detailed action plan worked out with



The Environment   49
Box 3-4. The Bank's Role in the Electric Power Sector and in Energy Efriciency and Conservation
The World Bank is changing the way it does    utilities in the past because it provided countries
business in energy according to two policy papers    with the basic infrastructure needed for produc-
generally endorsed by the executive directors   tion. In recent years. however, the Bank has tried
and published in fiscal 1993.                  to encourage borrowers to make their power
In future lending, the Bank will redouble its   sectors more efficient and financially sustainable.
efforts to achieve fundamental institutional re-  Energy efficiency and conservation. With re-
quirements in the provision of public power.   forms in pricing and institutional arrangements.
These will include more transparent regulation    the Bank will be more able to help developing
and greater openness to private investment and    countries improve energy efficiency and conser-
new financial policies. This will also open the    vation.
way to greater efficiency in the way energy is    The Bank will be more selective about where it
produced and consumed, thereby integrating en-    lends, however. Support will not continue for
vironmental considerations into power-sector    energy-supply projects where poorly performing
planning and investment decisions.              public energy enterprises and governments are
Electric power. The Bank and its borrowers    unwilling to carry out fundamental structural
cannot keep using a "business-as-usual" ap-    reforms that could significantly improve the ways
proach to lending when power-utility perfor-   they do business. To receive new commitments
mance is deteriorating in most developing coun-    from the Bank, governments should clearly show
tries, the policy paper said. Despite the Bank's   they are setting up structural incentives that lead
dialogue with borrowers, overall technical, insti-   to more efficient energy production and use.
tutional, and financial performance of power util-  The Bank will also help improve the way
ities in most developing countries has deterio-    consumers use energy and will assist in identify-
rated.                                          ing. supporting, and promoting demand-side
Future Bank lending for power projects will    management. Developing countries will also be
encourage borrowers to restructure their power    encouraged to adopt more energy-efficient and
sectors by requiring "transparent regulation" of   less-polluting technologies.
power suppliers. That would leave suppliers free  Many countries are reviewing their energy per-
from government interference in the day-to-day    formance in the face of rapidly growing energy
operations of power companies. The new regula-    demand, scarce energy funding. and environmen-
tory framework could then lead to better eco-   tal pressures. Rising complaints from customers
nomic, financial, environmental, and service pol-   and a rethinking of the roles of the government
icies in the power sector.                      and the private sector in energy are adding to this
The least-developed countries will receive    attention.
Bank financing to help improve energy efficiency  A few countries have made gains in energy
through imports of power services, including    efficiency, including China, the Republic of Ko-
consultants, operating contracts, and equipment.   rea, and Malaysia. But many countries still live
The Bank will try to encourage private invest-    up to only two thirds to one half of their potential.
ment in power by financing innovative programs    Simple changes could save countries 20 percent
aimed at attracting private investors. Commer-   to 25 percent of their energy production. With
cialization and corporatization of state-owned    investments in new equipment, others could save
power suppliers will also be supported.         as much as 30 percent to 60 percent.
Bank lending for electric power will focus on   The energy policy paper blamed inefficient
countries that clearly commit themselves to im-    energy use on distorted energy-pricing policies,
proving power performance in line with the new    inappropriate control and regulation of energy
principles, the policy paper added.             enterprises, and protection of energy-using in-
Cumulative Bank lending for power, which    dustries from competition. Other legal. institu-
totaled $45.5 billion at the end of fiscal 1993,   tional, and information barriers to efficient mar-
supported many state-owned monopoly power    ket operations were also noted.
the government of India and the states in-    decision. Indian authorities emphasized that
volved, decided to continue support for the    they remained committed to the full implemen-
projects. That support was contingent, how-    tation  of the government's  previously  an-
ever, on a number of key benchmarks for    nounced action plan covering r-esettlement and
assessing progress being met in the subsequent    rehabilitation of people affected by the project,
six months. (At the end of March 1993, the    as well as to steps to assess and mitigate
government of India requested the Bank to    environmental risks.)
cancel the remaining undisbursed portion of its      Dur-ing the October 1992 meeting, a number
loan for the Sardar Sarovar projects. saving    of directors endorsed the proposal of Bank
that it had decided to complete construction       management to review the Bankwide lessons
work on its own. In advising the Bank of its   learned from  the experience of the Sardar



50    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
Box 3-5. Water-resources Management
During the past year. the Bank prepared a policy    productive activities in an economically viable,
paper on water-resources management that was    environmentally sustainable, and socially equita-
subsequently endorsed by the institution's exec-    ble manner. The new policy approach is designed
utive directors. The paper addresses both water   to help countries achieve these objectives more
conservation  and  water-quality  issues-the    efficiently while sustaining the water environ-
'green"  and  "brown"  aspects  of water-    ment.
resources management-and builds on the les-       The Bank will give priority to countries where
sons of past Bank experience.                   water is scarce or where there are serious water
The policy paper calls for the adoption of a    allocation. service efficiency, or environmental
comprehensive analytical framework for water-    problems. Many of the countries with limited
resources management-suitable for a country's   renewable water resources are in the Middle
needs, resources, and capacities-that treats wa-    East, North Africa, Central Asia, and sub-
ter as an economic good; decentralized manage-    Saharan Africa, where populations are growing
ment and delivery structures; reforms to institu-    fastest. Elsewhere, water scarcity may be less of
tional and regulatory systems; greater reliance on    a problem at the national level but is nevertheless
incentives for efficiency and financial discipline;    severe in watersheds, such as in northern China,
and fuller participation by stakeholders in influ-    western and southern  India, western South
encing policy formulation, design alternatives,    America, and in large parts of Mexico and Paki-
investment choices, and management decisions    stan. For some countries, such as those in Cen-
affecting their communities. The approach is con-    tral and Eastern Europe, pollution is the largest
sistent with the "Dublin Statement" from the    problem affecting water resources.
International Conference on Water and the Envi-  In these countries, through its economic and
ronment in 1992 and with Agenda 21 of the    sector work, lending, and participation in inter-
United Nations Conference on Environment and    national initiatives, the Bank will seek to promote
Development.                                    policy reforms, institutional adaptation and ca-
The benefits expected to result from the appli-    pacity building, environmental protection and
cation of the new water policy include more    restoration, and, when requested, cooperation in
effective industrial-pollution control and ground-    the management of international watercourses.
water protection from industrial effluents; more    Because of the crucial interdependencies among
efficient and accessible water-service delivery    water and other sectors, the Bank will incorpo-
and sewage collection, treatment, and disposal    rate water-resources policy and management is-
(with the ultimate goal of achieving universal    sues in its country-policy dialogues and in the
coverage);  modernized  irrigation  practices,   formulation  of country-assistance  strategies
greater attention to cost recovery, drainage, sa-    where water issues are deemed to be of signifi-
linity control, and investments in small-scale ir-   cance.
rigation; and improvements to the environment     To  help  implement its water resources-
and reduction of poverty through more rigorous    management policy, the Bank is undertaking a
attention to minimizing resettlement, enhancing    range of activities, including the preparation of
biodiversity. and protecting ecosystems in the    guidelines and "best-practices" papers, staff and
design and implementation of water projects.    country training programs, capacity building, and
The Bank's development objective is to reduce    the development of coordination mechanisms for
poverty by supporting country efforts to promote   the water-resources sector. In collaboration with
equitable, efficient, and sustainable develop-    the United Nations Development Programme, a
ment. This entails, among other things, support    guide on capacity building is being proposed for
for the provision of potable water and sanitation    countries interested in formulating water-sector
facilities, as well as flood control and water for  strategies.
Sarovar projects. Subsequently, a task force    submitted to Bank management and subse-
was formed to carry out. in cooperation with    quently to the executive board in the spring of
all regions, an analysis of all projects in the    1994.
Bank's active portfolio with resettlement com-       Emerging lessons from  the Bank's experi-
ponents. which number about 135. to ensure    ence in assisting borrowers to improve their
that project implementation was being carried    environmental activities and capabilities are
out consistent with loan and credit agreements    also drawn from  project-completion reports
and with Bank guidelines. The analysis will   and performance audits and other evaluation
also  recommend  short-term  and  long-term        studies carried out by the Operations Evalua-
strategies to be followed to improve resettle-    tion Department (OED).
ment performance in Bank-assisted operations.        OED's Annual Review of Evaluation Results
The final report of the Bankwide resettle-    for 1991. which was discussed by the executive
ment-review  task force is scheduled to be    directors in October 1992 and published in



The Environment   51
March 1993, gave particular emphasis to the    or. in the case of the United States, of GEF
environmental performance of completed Bank    types of activities identified by the country's
projects. Among the findings of this review    bilateral aid agency.
were the need to improve monitoring of project   All countries with per capita incomes below
environmental impacts and supervision of proj-   $4,000 a year qualify for facility grants. By the
ect environmental components: the apparent    end of June 1993, 113 projects. valued at $727
existence of positive links between strong proj-    million, were in the facility's work program. Of
ect environmental performance and strong    these, thirty-two, amounting to $250 million.
project performance in economic, financial,   had been approved for final implementation.
and institutional terms; the importance of en-   Nongovernmental  organizations  (NGOs)
hancing borrower institutional capacity for en-    have much to contribute to achieving the ob-
vironmental management: and the need to give   jectives of the GEF, and considerable efforts
greater attention to the macroeconomic policy    have been made to involve them in both proj-
framework, which strongly conditions the use    ect work and broader issues. An NGO consul-
and management of natural resources. Many of   tation precedes each semiannual meeting of
the operational shortcomings identif'ied by the    governments. In  addition. several region-
OED review are now being systematically ad-    specific and subject-specific meetings with
dressed by the Bank through the environmental-    NGOs have taken place.
assessment process and other Bank-sponsored      The facility is currently being restructured.
environmental initiatives.                     Participating  governments  ("participants'")
Global Environment Facility. Fiscal 1993    agreed in April 1992 on eight principles to
marked the second full year of activity for the    serve as building blocks beyond the facility's
Global Environment Facility (GEF). The facil-   pilot phase. The principles are: the GEF would
itv was established in 1990 as a three-year pilot   provide additional grant and  concessional
project to provide grants to developing coun-   funding of the agreed incremental costs for
tries aimed at protecting the global environ-    achieving agreed global environmental bene-
ment in ways that are consistent with national   fits: land degradation issues. primarily deserti-
development goals. The resources of the GEF    fication and deforestation. as they relate to the
are available to cover the incremental costs of   focal areas of the facility, would be eligible for
measures to protect the global environment in   funding; the GEF would be available to func-
four areas: global warming, biological diver-   tion as the funding mechanism  for agreed
sity. protection of international waters, and    global environmental conventions, should the
depletion of the ozone layer. Funds from the    parties to those conventions so desire; the
facility are therefore additional to finance pro-   facility would assure the cost effectiveness of
vided by the Bank and other agencies for   its activities in addressing the targeted global
national environment assistance. At UNCED.    environmental issues; the GEF would fund
the facility was listed in Agenda 21 as a source    programs and projects that are country driven
of funds to cover the agreed incremental costs   and consistent with national priorities designed
of activities to achieve global environmental   to support sustainable development: the GEF
benefits. In addition, the GEF was designated,    would build on proven institutional structures,
on an interim  basis. by the conventions on    such as the partnership among the UNDP,
climate change and biodiversity as the interna-    UNEP. and the World Bank, thus avoiding the
tional entity entrusted with the operation of the    creation of new institutions: the facility must
financial mechanism to meet the agreed incre-    be transparent and accountable to contributors
mental costs of activities under those conven-    and beneficiaries alike: and the GEF would
tions. Responsibilitv for implementing facility    have sufficient flexibility to introduce modifi-
projects is shared among the United Nations    cations as the need arises. Efforts are under
Development Programme, the United Nations    way to reach a consensus on the restructured
Environment Programme, and the World Bank.   facility's decisionmaking process and voting
At the end of fiscal 1993. sixty-four coun-    systems. In parallel with discussions on re-
tries, more than two thirds of which are from  structuring, negotiations are taking place on
the developing world, were participating in the    the facility's replenishment. The replenish-
GEF. The number of participants is expected    ment effort was launched in March 1993 and
to grow rapidly as the facility moves toward    continued at a meeting held in Beijing in May
the goal of universal membership. Participants    1993. Three additional meetings are scheduled
have pledged $1.3 billion for the pilot phase: of   during the second half of 1993.
that amount, $813 million was composed of        Evaluation of the pilot phase is central to the
contributions to a "core fund," while the re-   replenishment process. An independent evalu-
mainder was in the form  of cofinancing by    ation of the pilot phase is being undertaken.
donors of projects in the GEF work program     The evaluation is guided by a panel composed



52   The World Bank--Fiscal Year 1993
of eminent scientists, technical experts. and    constraints of' special importatnce to small and
representatives of participating governments.    medium tFirms. B'v the end offiscal 1993. eleven
private-sector assessments had essentiallv
Private-sector Development                       completed the internal-review  process at the
Support by the World Bank Group-the    Bank.'
Bank, the IFC. and MIGA-t;r private-sector         Improving the business environment in the
development (PSD) as a means to promote    countr-ies of Central and Eastern Europe and
growth and etficiency and thereby to reduce    the former Soviet Union (FSU) presents an
poverty has under-gone substantial evolution.    extremely dift'icult challenge because these
Early project lending often focused on creating    countries must create a modern private sector
the infrastr-uctural base to complement indus-    virtually from  scratch. In many countries, a
trial and agricultural development. Adjustment    stable and known n set of rules governing central
lending in the 198X)s expanded this focus by    issues such as investment. taxation. and land
working to establish a macroeconomic frame-    ownership is onlv beginning to emerge. while
work for PSD  of stability and appropriate   the under-lying legal frameworks are anachro-
relative prices. Since 1989. a strategy has been    nisms. unsuited to the needs of a market econ-
incorporated that focuses on improving the    omy. The obstacles to improving the business
business environment, restructuring the public    environment in these economies are deep-
sector and supporting privatization. and re-    seated  anid are not susceptible  to  'quick
forming and developing the financial sector in   fixes." Progress will be slow. but important
developing countries.                           first steps have been taken.
Together. the components of this strategy        Support for the FSU's economic transition
are helping to nurture a healthy private sector.    has been provided under the 1991 Technical
a prerequisite for attracting private capital    Cooperation  Agreement, which  created  a
flows. In Asian and Latin American econo-    Bank-executed technical-assistance trust fund.
mies, for example, well-established corporate    Work financed from  the trust fund laid the
sectors and extensive privatization programs    basis for a dialogue with participating FSU
have provided attractive investment opportu-    governments and for operations dealing with
nities. The bulk of recent increases in foreign    the business environment (as well as with
direct investment-to a level of about $38    privatization  and  financial-sector  develop-
billion in 1992-has been directed to those two    ment). One component of the Bank's $90 mil-
regions. as well as to some transitioning econ-    lion loan to Russia for privatization-implemen-
omies in Central and Eastern Europe.            tation assistance. approved in fiscal 1993. has
Efforts to improve the business environment    been designed  to support the provision of
focus on necessary policy. regulatory, and    business services to small enterprises.
legal reforms: assistance for public-sector re-    In the Latin America and the Caribbean
structuring and privatization involves assis-   region. PSD work now emphasizes 'second-
tance to government in reassessing public-    generation" regulatory and institutional issues
spending priorities and cutting back on unman-    affecting the business envi-onment. Greater
ageable or peripheral activities while fostering    attention is being paid to such issues as the
correctly conceived and implemented privati-    establishment of a regulator-y structure for en-
zation programs: and financial-sector reform    terprises to be privatized. customs retorm.
supports the development of efficient financial    collateral and property-rights problems. export
systems that mobilize savings and channel    Finance and services, capital-markets develop-
them to their most productive end uses.          ment. labor adjtistment in enterprise restruc-
Btunik acti,his io i/np)rove ile  husines.s cnvi-   turing. and strengthening of standards and test-
ronnienit have an increasingly sharper tocus    ing services.
through a program  of private-sector assess-       Pr,omon tionof/bli(-Xse(tor, re.structring has
ments. initiated in fiscal 1992 and carried out in   tended to Focus on trimming overextended
conjunction with the IFC. These assessments.    public sectors and supporting privatization of
designed to contribute to the formulation of    state-owned enterprises and the private-sector
Bank Group country-assistance strategies. an-    delivery of public services. This fbcus has
alvze the structure of. and constraints to. the    begun to shift. however. towards one that also
private sector in given countries and lay out    complements privatization with efforts at up-
concrete steps that can be taken to advance    grading those areas of public-administration
private-sector development. The assessment    that have the potential to affect protbundly the
for Zimbabwe. t'or example, has identified lim-
ited access to land and credit, bureaucratic red  The i,sessmc.its irle oi) Biazil. (ihiim. Indonesi. Kenvy.
tape, inadequate skills and infrastructure. and    N.ic)y Mwuclv  Nigeria. Pol:;nd. SeneL.Il. LIr[igL;ax.
government policies favoring lar-ge industry as   and Zirnihah e.



Private-sector Development   53
growth and efficiencv of the private sector: tax    have promoted private-sector participation in
and customs administration. trade and invest-   sectors previously controlled by the state such
ment pi-omotion. enterprise-support services,    as power (India and Pakistan). distribution of
court administration, and infrastructure plan-    agricultural inputs (Bangladesh). and oil and
ning and provision.                             gas lt3angladesh. India. and Pakistan). Bank
In Bangladesh, for example, courts used to    operations have also supported privatization of
take LIp to fifteen years to process suits brought    state-owned  enterprises in  Nepal and  Sri
by financial institutions against defaulting bor-    Lanka. In East Asia. the Bank is supporting
rowers. With assistance from the Bank. Bang-    efforts to privatize Philippine government-
ladesh enacted legislation establishing special    owned corporations. Several big-ticket items.
commercial courts to handle expeditiously ac-   including the National Steel Corporation and
tions brought by financial institutions against   the Manila Hotel. are being prepared for sale.
defaulting borrowers.                           and the authorities have extended the life of
Governments are also working on strength-    the Asset Privatization Trust, a key public
ening the capacity of public agencies that pro-    entity for managing privatization. uintil Decem-
vide direct services to the private sector. In the    ber 1993. The Bank is also helping the govern-
Philippines. the Board of Investments has re-    ment explore privatization into areas such as
sponsibility for promoting foreign direct (as    energy generation. water-supply and sewerage
well as domestic) investment, but its corporate    corporations, and ports. Bank operations have
culture has led it to foctis on regulatory and    assisted in promoting greater private-sector
control functions. The World Bank Group's    participation  in  the  telecommunications,
Foreign Investment Advisory Service, which    power. and water sectors in Indonesia. In
provides advice on matters related to toreign    Latin America. a $250 million Bank loan to
direct investment, provided the government    Peru is supporting the government's efforts to
with an action plan for institutional and policy    undertake a privatization program that tocuses
changes designed to shift the board's focus    on  mining. hydrocarbons. teiecommunica-
from regulation to promotion of investment.     tions. and other sectors. In addition, loans to
The World Bank Group actively supports    Argentina and Uruguay during fiscal 1993 are
privatization in the context of its broader goals    helping government efforts to privatize public
of economic development and poverty reduc-    enterprises and establish a proper regulatory
tion. During calendar years 1991 and 1992. the    framework.
Bank approved 110 investment operations and        Because the magnitude and urgency of these
fifty-nine adjustment operations with compo-    privatization efforts are unprecedented. the
nents addressing privatization or the restruc-    Bank is approaching them with an openness
turing of public enterprises. The IFC. which    to learning from mistakes and to strengthen-
has made privatization a central and expandling    ing their design as the process unfolds and
element of its investment program, undertook    new atid unforeseen issues arise. With expe-
eighteen privatization transactions during fis-   rience, the Bank is becoming more involved
cal years 1992 and 1993.                        in issues such as the importance of transpar-
Privatization has taken on a special urgency    encv, of dealing with the potential direct
in the countries in transition where it is a    social costs of privatization. and of establish-
cornerstone  of their  transformation  from      ing a post-privatization environment that stim-
command-based to market-based economies.    ulates competition. promotes equity, and in-
In some ot' these countries. privatization has    hibits avoidable concentrations of ownership
proceeded more slowly than anticipated, and    and economic power.
in several, deadlines have been missed. But        Because governments (particularly in Latin
initial experience has proved instructive for    America and Asia) are increasingly allowing
subsequent initiatives. such as the Russian    and encouraging private operators to provide
government's ambitious mass privatization    infrastructure services normaliy handled by
program-the largest privatization effort ever    public agencies, the private provision of infra-
attempted-involving some 24.000 large and    structure is becoming an area of growing activ-
medium-sized  state-owned  enterprises  and    ity by the World Bank Group. The Bank's
many times more small businesses. In Poland.    support for the private provision of infrastruc-
some 100,000 retail businesses were privatized    ture involves a three-part approach focusing on
in the 1990-92 period. while 25,000 small en-    (a) the privatization of public utilities: (b) devel-
terprises in what are now the Czech and Slovak    opment of regulatory frameworks to provide
republics had been sold by the end of 1991.     appropriate mechanisms for pricing privately
The Bank's involvement in privatization ef-   delivered infrastructure services. encouraging
forts in Asia and in Latin America is also well   competition. and. where appropriate. removing
advanced. In South Asia. Bank operations    barriers to entry: and (c) provision of Bank



54   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
financing or partial guarantees to attract addi-   macroeconomic framework and an efficient
tional private capital for infrastructure projects   price regime) to second-generation measures
(as in Pakistan and Jamaica, where Bank lend-   (that aim directly at improving the day-to-day
ing for private power projects during the past   environment in which firms operate). The
two fiscal years has helped mobilize private    Bank has made progress in supporting this
debt and equity capital).                     process, but continues to learn from experi-
Financial-sector refo(rm forms a part of an    ence. Indeed, the more deeply it becomes
integrated sequence of reforms required in   involved in this work, the more it finds itself
many countries to achieve efficient PSD. In the    having to address unforeseen problems and
1980s, governments and the World Bank    complexities.
Group began to place increasing emphasis on     To improve its capacity to support govern-
the need to accompany financial-institution    ments in the design and implementation of a
reform and restructuring with appropriate pol-   second generation of PSD reforms, the Bank
icy reforms (in interest-rate policy, for exam-    Group is looking for ways to (a) understand the
ple). More recently. as more countries liberal-   dynamics of the environment affecting PSD
ized and encountered new problems, increasing    with a view to identifying and then devising
attention has been devoted to a second genera-    ways to eliminate. obviate, or work around
tion of reform focused on creating appropriate    obstacles to implementation: (b) forge links
legal, regulatory, and supervisory structures to   among the various local institutions critical to
realize the full benefits of financial-sector re-   PSD so that, on their own, they can deepen
form.                                         and sustain progress initiated through support
In addition, the Bank is putting greater em-    from  the Bank Group: and (c) learn from
phasis on the need for (a) sector-policy reform    successful country experiences in implement-
in combination with macroeconomic reform    ing PSD reforms and. to the extent possible.
and (b) improvements in financial infrastruc-    help replicate those experiences-tailored to
ture and a strengthening of specific financial   specific country needs-in other countries.
institutions. Because individual financial insti-  In recent years. the Bank's efforts in support
tutions that operate within a distorted financial   of PSD have accelerated rapidly. Typically.
system can themselves become sources of in-   about two thirds of all Bank operations include
efficiency, the Bank's willingness to support   components that explicitly support private-
them  depends in part on progress made in   sector development.
macroeconomic and sector-policy reforms. In
addition, the regulatory framework needs to
provide appropriate prudential safeguards so    At its spring 1993 meeting, the Development
that financial institutions behave responsibly.   Committee reviewed the Bank Group's private-
Technical assistance by the Bank in Russia. for   sector development strategy and welcomed the
instance, has identified gaps between Russian    emergence of a new generation of loans through
banking-sector regulations and international    which the Bank supports policy, regulatory,
norms for accounting, auditing, and financial   and legal reforms. While commending the
reporting, thus establishing an agenda for re-   work already done or in hand, the committee
form. In Indonesia, a $307 million Bank loan is   called on the Bank Group to make even greater
assisting the government in strengthening pru-    progress by promoting small and medium-scale
dential banking regulations, in enforcing imple-   industry  and  the  entrepreneurial role  of
mentation of those regulations, and in promot-    women, encouraging the private sector in de-
ing the competitiveness and efficiency of state   veloping countries (especially  the poorest
commercial banks by subjecting themselves to   among them), and supporting the necessary
the same rules as the private sector (see Box    underpinning of public-sector reforms.
3-6).
Although advances have been made in de-   Changes in Housing Policy
veloping the private sector in the past two     After two decades of experience in working
years, many challenges remain. Private invest-    with developing-country governments on hous-
ment remains sluggish-in many cases despite   ing policy and in lending for housing, the World
intensive adjustment efforts-in a number of   Bank has determined that future assistance to
developing  countries, particularly  in  sub-   the sector should be predicated on a broader
Saharan Africa and South Asia.                perspective of the housing sector rather than on
The implication for the World Bank Group    a limited perspective of a single housing project
of these developments is that it must help    or finance institution.
accelerate the evolutionary process, already    This new  focus is the result of insights
begun, leading from  first-generation adjust-   gained through the institution's initial empha-
ment measures (that focus on creating a stable   sis on physical provision of low-cost housing



Changes in Housing Policy    55
Box 3-6. Financial-sector Reform in Indonesia
The financial sector of Indonesia has undergone   As a result of ten years of financial-sector
a dramatic transformation to a competitive,    reform, most of the policies needed to develop a
market-based system since the onset of financial    robust and balanced financial structure are now
reforms in 1983. The reforms were introduced in   in place: Interest rates have been deregulated,
stages and in conjunction with comprehensive    credit ceilings abolished, entry barriers lowered,
real sector reforms. Consequently, in spite of    subsidized directed credits drastically reduced,
experiencing external shocks no less severe than    and steps taken to develop capital markets.
those endured by many other developing coun-    These reform initiatives, combined with an open
tries, the government has been far more success-    capital account and the government's policy of
ful than most in containing inflationary pressures,   refraining from domestic financing of budget def-
preventing capital flight, and mobilizing financial   icits, have made Indonesia's financial sector one
resources.                                      of the most deregulated and market-based in the
The 1983 reforms deregulated state commer-    developing world.
cial-bank interest rates and sought to rationalize  While deregulation initiatives have yielded
the subsidized directed-credit program. Although    substantial positive benefits, they have also led to
the deregulation component was successfully im-    the concentration of credit (and, as a conse-
plemented, success was limited in reforming the    quence, ownership of the real sector) among a
directed-credit program. In late 1988, the govern-    few large business groups and engendered new
ment introduced a comprehensive set of reform    challenges (for example. in the areas of pruden-
measures to further enhance financial-sector ef-   tial regulation, supervision, and enforcement; the
ficiency (by encouraging competition) and to in-    establishment and enforcement of a comprehen-
crease the availability of long-term finance (by    sive legal framework; and the elimination of the
promoting the development of capital markets).    uneven playing field that has allowed state com-
Among other things, new private banks were    mercial banks to receive differential treatment
permitted entry, domestic banks were given the    with respect to banking regulations and to have
green light to open branches throughout the    disproportionate access to cheap and captive
country, and foreign banks were allowed to set    sources of funds).
up offices in seven major cities.                In response to these new challenges. the gov-
The 1988 reforms had a strong positive impact    ernment is pushing the reform process further
on the diversification of the country's financial   through updating laws governing financial insti-
structure. However, the government's subsi-   tutions, announcement of new prudential regula-
dized directed-credit program (a target of the    tions, initiation of steps to strengthen the super-
1983 reforms) kept the financial market frag-    visory apparatus for the banking and securities
mented, as characterized by large differences in   industries, diversifying access to credit, and re-
access to credit and its cost to individual borrow-    vamping the ways in which the state commercial
ers. As a result. the government initiated far-    banks conduct business (including their conver-
reaching reforms in 1990 that reduced the number    sion into limited liability companies). It is this
of eligible directed-credit programs from thirty-    latest reform effort that the World Bank is sup-
seven to four; at the same time, the interest rate    porting with its $307 million loan.
for the four programs that remained was moved
closer to market rates.
units and, later, on lending to housing-finance    poor, presenting a special challenge to those
institutions: that, for instance, the scale of the    providing housing and public services.
Bank's interventions had been too narrow and         The Bank's new  policy focus toward the
that it should play an expanded role in enabling    housing sector follows on the heels of a shift in
housing markets to work better in developing    its general urban policy away from  meeting
countries.                                         physical objectives in shelter, water supply,
The shift in the Bank's emphasis and a    sanitation, and urban transport toward sustain-
corresponding shift advocated by the Bank for    ing policy change and strengthening institutions.
the role of government toward the housing            Physical provision of low-cost housing-a
sector are seen as necessary if housing prob-    hallmark of Bank lending in the 1970s-had
lems are to be addressed on a scale commen-    three objectives: construction of affordable,
surate with their magnitude and if the sector is    adequate housing for poor families; cost recov-
to be managed as one that has a major eco-    ery from beneficiaries, resulting in the elimina-
nomic role to play. Each year some 12 million    tion of public subsidies: and replicability by the
to 15 million new  households, requiring an    private sector. Only the first objective was
equivalent number of dwellings, are added to    broadly achieved.4
the cities of the developing world. Many of the      Lending for housing finance. a prominent
people swelling the ranks of urban dwellers are    feature of Bank activities in the 1 980s, had two



56    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
principal objectives: It allowed the Bank to    getary transfers to the housing sector) and ex-
address wider economic issues in borr-owing    panding  infrastructuire investment. In other
countries and it affected overall policies and    middle-income countries, the emphasis would
performance of the housilng sector through the    most often include regulator-v reformni in land use
broad instrument of housing-finance systenm    and buildinig so as to facilitate the transition
development. While Bank lending for housing    to a more responsive system of housing sup-
finance was relatively  successfuil, the main    plv anid further development of mortgage fi-
issue addressed in these projects-financial-    nance. In centralls planned and formerly cen-
sector development-was a concern mainly    trally planned economies, reform  could be
to middle-inicome developing countr-ies. The    expected to focus On property  rights. housing
Bank's new approach. which is based on a    finance, subsidies  lanId and building regula-
few principles that will gtiide futul-e assistance    tions. land dCvelopimient  materials produc-
in the housing sector, promises to broaden the    tion and distributition and the residential-con-
range of countries that benefits fiom  Bank    struction industrv
operations in the sector and to addiess the         Bank Support fol polics relorm  (through
needs of lower-income countries. The princi-    adjustment lending). provision of finance for
pies include the following:                       investnicits (through in.vestment lending). and
* The Bank will encourage borroowing menm-    institutional ref'olrm (through provisio n ot' tech-
ber gover-1nments to adopt policies that enable    nical assistance) will be accompanied bv a new
housing markets to work and to move away    agenda for housing-policy reseair-ch as wvell as
fioni producing. financing, anid maintaining    development of' w ays to strengthen the basis
housing                                           for sectoral-policy management. These would
* Bank housing assistance w%ill have a sec-    include the use of sectoral-performance iidica-
toral rather than a single-project flocus  anti   tors. the evaluation of the effects of policy
project succesS will be evaluated by its impact    differences on sectoral performnance. and the
on the sector as a whole,                         developnment of' operational tools for sectoral
* The Bank will seek to assist counterpart    analysis and policy design.
institutions that have regulatory roles and will    The executive board generally endorsed the
focus its lendinig ftor housilng on borrowev-s    shift in the Bank's activities in the housing
willing to commit themselves to improving    sector. In their discussion of the changes in
sector performance. including removal, over    policy, directors stressed the need for tlexibil-
time. of distortions affecting the performance    ity and a country-by-country approach to pol-
of the housing sector.                            icy implementation. with attention given to the
* The Bank will seek greater government    sequenicing of reforms and to coordinating w ith
commitment to impr-oved collection and anal-    other- donors. They also eniphasized that full
ysis of housing data to assess housing-sector    attention should( be paid to the poor and to
perfor-mance and improve the process of policy    poverty-reduction ob jectives, including contin-
formulation and implementation.                   ued support for targeted proiects withini an
Government policies that enable housing    appropriate sector framework. and that the
markets to work-they typically include the    informal sector and the poor bc supported
development of property rights, creation of    through promotioLn ot' an enabling environ-
healthy and competitive mortgage-lending in-    ment. Directors also highlighted the impor-
stitutions. the fostering of innovative arriange-    tance of participatorv approaches. including
ments for providing greater access to housing    community participation. in the implementa-
finance by the poor. anld rationalization of    tion of housing-sector policies and of fostering
subsidies-are applicable, to a greater or lesser    development of' the local construction industL-y
degree. in all borrower countries. Priorities for    and the local building-materials inltiLstry
use of the various ''enabling instruments''
available  to  governments  vary. however.    Tenth Replenishment of IDA
across countries.                                   In late January 1992. the representativCs of
Thus, in lower-inconme countries, the Bank's    donor governments-the IDA deputies-began
operational and policy-dialogue emphasis will   negotiations in Paris for a tenth replenlishment
tend to focus on developing market-oriented    of IDA resources IDA-10) to cover- the period
systems of propertyv ights, facilitating the hous-    July i. 1993 to June 31(. 1996.
ing supply by increasing infi-astl-uctuL-e invest-
ment and enhancing  building-industry  com-        Slirn-LIpgI-din proici, ho%opVc. er. h\and laiL-gi o;lidtic
petition. In highlIV indebted, middle-income       tlhC ,rlenilciIitN eric0itn a;nd nere 1iieeeiiI it dviil'iit-
countries, key priorities might include fiscal and  rhiit  %%ill'e reJai i,  ilarge tinl'ei tni the Irli'tL poor.n
finanicial-policy reformn (particularVly iniproving  Phdi\ig Itl itht  .iC)  t C0r. C>PLMptniiIn J,mt-inreo[an
housing-finance institutions and reducing bud-     ointie,.



Tenth Replenishment of IDA   57
After five formal negotiating sessions, the   in a number of ways during the IDA-9 period:
deputies reached agreement in December 1992    For example. social safety nets were increas-
on a replenishment of SDR13 billion. Based on   ingly being built into adjustment operations to
exchange rates prevailing at the time of agree-    help protect the poor and enhance the sustain-
ment, the replenishment is equivalent to $18    ability of the adjustment effort, and lending
billion. When combined with advance commit-   allocations were increasingly being influenced
ments against future repayments by IDA bor-   by a country's economic performance.
rowers and the approved transfer of $375        The deputies took note. however. of a num-
million equivalent from the IBRD's surplus    ber of aspects of adjustment to which particu-
account. IDA's commitment authority during   lar attention might be given in the years ahead.
the three-year period would total about SDR16   IDA's executive directors were asked to keep
billion, or $22 billion equivalent. This amount   track of how closely public expenditures re-
could be augmented further by transfers from    flected development priorities and of efforts
the IBRD's net income once they are approved    that were being made to reduce nondevelop-
by the IBRD's board of governors.             ment expenditures (including military expendi-
The agreed donor contributions to the re-   tures) to the maximum extent feasible.
plenishment are shown in Table 3-3.             The continuing constraint to development
During the negotiations on the terms and    prospects that is imposed by high levels of
conditions for IDA-9, it was agreed that IDA    outstanding debt in many countries was noted.
should focus on three main objectives to sup-    Deputies expressed the hope that the Paris
port economic development in the poorest   Club would continue to provide an appropriate
countries: poverty reduction, economic adjust-   degree of concessionality in the treatment of
ment and growth, and environmental protec-    official debt extended to adjusting IDA bor-
tion and improvement. The IDA-10 deputies   rowers. They also called for the full and rapid
agreed that these objectives remained an accu-    use of the Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-
rate reflection of the key development chal-   oniv Countries. urged that its resources be
lenges facing the poorest countfies.          repienished before funds ran out, and gave
The deputies expressed satisfaction with the    support to the continuation of the special pro-
recent sharpening of IDA's poverty-reduction    gram of supplemental donor contributions to
focus, including provision to Bank staff of   the facility. IDA was also asked to heighten its
comprehensive operational guidance on pov-   support for efforts to encourage the establish-
erty issues, the increased weight that was    ment of an enabling environment that would
being given to countries' commitment to pov-   allow the private sector to respond to sound
erty reduction in establishing lending alloca-   economic policies and to improve the effi-
tions, initiation of a program of poverty assess-   ciency of public-sector institutions.
ments for all active borrowers, and increases in  In the area of environmental protection and
the shares of IDA lending for poverty-targeted    improvement, the rapid evolution of IDA's
investments and social-sector projects.       role in supporting environmental sustainabil-
The IDA-10 deputies stressed that they at-   ity was noted. Recent actions, including the
tached great importance to the completion of   publication of World Development Report
country poverty assessments for all major IDA    1992; implementation of a new forestry policy
recipients by the end of 1994 and that IDA    that focuses on helping governments put in
needed to continue to emphasize social-sector   place the institutions, procedures, and infor-
lending and poverty-targeted investments (that   mation systems needed for sustainable forest
is, investments that disproportionately benefit   management; issuance of new  operational
the poor in particular or have specific mecha-   directives on projects involving indigenous
nisms for identifying and reaching the poor).   people, involuntary resettlement, and agricul-
The deputies noted their expectation that the   tural-pest management; and increased in-
higher shares of poverty-targeted investments   volvement by nongovernmental organizations
and  social-sector lending achieved  during   in the design and implementation of projects,
IDA-9 would increase steadily during the    were endorsed.
IDA-10 period. Donors also attached special     IDA deputies discussed how best to allocate
importance to IDA's efforts in two areas-    IDA resources to meet these objectives. They
women in development and population plan-   reviewed three criteria for allocating funds-
ning. IDA was urged to expand its support for   per capita income, performance, and credit-
family planning and social services for women.   worthiness.
including, in particular, education of girls.   * It was agreed that the operational cut-off
As far as economic adjustment and growth    of per capita income be left at the same real
were concerned, the deputies noted that IDA's   level as in IDA-9-$765 or less (in 1991 dol-
support for adjustment had been strengthened    lars)-and that exceptions be maintained for



58    The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
Table 3-3. Contributions to the Tenth Replenishment of IDA Resources
(amounts in millions)
Supplementary            Total
Basic contributions           contributions        contributions
SDR             Share              SDR                  SDR
Contributing member                   amount          (percent)           amount               amount
Australia                              189.80            1.46               2.24                 192.04
Austria                                117.00            0.90                 -                  117.00
Belgium                               201.50             1.55                 -                 201.50
Brazila                                 10.00            0.08                 -                   10.00
Canada                                519.91             4.00                 -                 519.91
Czech Republicab                         6.70            0.05                 -                   6.70
Denmark                                169.00            1.30              11.47                 180.47
Finland                                130.00            1.00                 -                 130.00
Francec                               912.94             7.02              36.06                949.00
Germany                              1,430.00           11.00                 -                1.430.00
Greece                                   6.80            0.05                 -                    6.80
Hungarya                                10.00            0.08                 -                   10.00
Iceland                                  3.90            0.03                 -                    3.90
Ireland                                 14.30            0.11               1.10                  15.40
Italy                                 689.00d            5.30                 -                 689.00
Japan                                2,431.00           18.70             169.00               2,600.00
Korea, Republic of                     30.00             0.23               6.58                 36.58
Kuwait                                  18.08            0.14                 -                   18.08
Luxembourg                               6.50            0.05               0.50                   7.00
Mexicoa                                 25.00            0.19              10.00                 35.00
Netherlands                           429.00             3.30              27.00                456.00
New Zealande                            15.52            0.12                 -                   15.52
Norway                                 184.60            1.42                                    184.60
Polanda                                 4.50             0.03                 -                   4.50
Portugal                                15.00            0.12               0.50                  15.50
Russiaa.f                               50.00            0.38                 -                  50.00
Saudi Arabiaf                          108.47            0.83                 -                  108.47
South Africaa f                         10.00            0.08                 -                   10.00
Spain                                  104.00            0.80                 -                  104.00
Sweden                                340.60             2.62               7.40                348.00
Switzerland                           226.20             1.74               3.80                230.00
Turkeya                                 25.00            0.19                 -                  25.00
United Kingdom                        799.18             6.15                 -                 799.18
United States                        2,711.69           20.86                 -               2.711.69
Subtotal                          11,945.18           91.89             275.65             12,220.83
Change in encashments"                395.68             3.04
Change in liquidity policy'           200.00             1.54
Supplementary contributions           275.65             2.12
Unallocated                            183.49            1.41
Total                             13,000.00          100.00
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Contributions of members with annual rates of inflation greater than 15 percent during the 1989-91 period are denominated
in SDRs.
b. On January I. 1993. the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic was succeeded by the Czech Republic and the Slovak
Republic.
c. The basic national currency contribution of France is equivalent to a 7.3 percent share of SDR 13 billion using
May-October exchange rates.
d. This amount is the SDR equivalent of Lit. 1,169,390.71 million. that is, an IDA- 10 contribution of Lit. 1.124,000 million and
Lit. 45,390.71 million resulting from encashing the IDA- I0 contribution on an eight-year schedule rather than a ten-year period.
e. The government of New Zealand notified the association that it is increasing its contribution from NZ$38.09 (SDR 14.94
million) shown in the IDA-10 resolution to NZ$39.58 million (SDR 15.52 million).
f. These countries are not yet in a position to commit to a final contribution to IDA-10. The levels shown are indicative.
g. Reflects additional resources available to IDA as a result of encashing contributions on an eight-year schedule rather than
a ten-year period. Contributions of Australia and the United Kingdom will be encashed over a ten-year period. The
participation of Italy and Canada is shown as part of their basic contribution.
h. The change in encashment schedule will enable IDA to lower its liquidity requirements by SDR 200 million, which will be
committed in IDA-10.



Tenth Replenishment of IDA   59
small island economies and for temporary as-   plementation of its three main objectives. Four
sistance to those IDA-eligible adjusting coun-    main instruments used to achieve these objec-
tries that have per capita incomes above the   tives were considered: IDA's policy dialogue
cut-off level but are not creditworthy for IBRD    with recipient countries, the process of coun-
lending.                                     try and sector allocation, enhancement of the
* The application across regions and coun-   qualitv of lending activities, and coordination
tries of transparent and consistent performance    of donor funding.
criteria-application of sound economic poli-   The importance of IDA's role in the policy
cies. implementation of environmentally re-   dialogue was reaffirmed. IDA's policy dialogue
sponsible programs. commitment to poverty   has traditionally encompassed macroeconomic
reduction. and aspects of governance and    and structural policies, public-expenditure pro-
public-expenditure allocations that were rele-   grams, and institutional issues. The experience
vant to development-was stressed.            of the 1980s brought increasing awareness that
* Greater weight was given to creditworth-    effective policymaking and implementation
iness considerations in allocations to "'blend"    also require good governance. Four aspects of
IBRD/IDA recipients. IDA was asked to re-   governance have been identified as critical to
duce its allocations to more creditworthy    the development process and to the effective
countries by reducing the IBRD/IDA blend it   use of donor resources-accountability, trans-
provides to a range of 30 percent to 35 percent   parency. the rule of law, and participation by
of total IDA allocations, down from the ap-   affected people in the design and implementa-
proximately 40 percent during IDA-9. The   tion of programs and projects. The deputies
deputies recommended that assistance to the    said that they expected IDA to play a role in
blend countries be directed primarily to pov-   supporting better governance through its dia-
erty-focused activities or those that promote   logue with governments, its economic and sec-
environmental sustainability. It was also   tor reporting. and the design of its operations.
agreed that resources allocated to sub-Sa-    They asked that future reviews of implementa-
haran Africa-subject to performance-be    tion etfforts by the association report on prog-
maintained at between 45 percent and 50   ress being made in integrating governance is-
percent. There was concern among some dep-   sues  into  the  policy  dialogue  and  into
uties that a reduction in the allocation to   supporting analysis.
blend countries might unduly lower the over-   The ways in which IDA allocates its re-
all share of funding to Asia, home to the    sources by country and by sector is a key
largest number of the world's poorest people.   determinant for the effective implementation
Deputies agreed to maintain approximate par-   of its policies. The deputies reaffirmed that (a)
ity between allocations to sub-Saharan Africa   IDA should focus its efforts on those countries
and Asia during IDA-I0.                      that have demonstrated their commitment to
* The deputies said that they attached great   IDA's three main objectives; (b) access to IDA
weight to the timely completion and high qual-   resources should be based on annual assess-
ity of national environmental-action plans that   ments of performance, with allocations related
are being prepared, with IDA assistance, by all  to the strength of countries' commitments to
active borrowers. They also called on IDA to   the three main objectives; and that (c) in coun-
assist borrowers in improving the quality and   tries where performance is lax, lending should
scope of environmental assessments. Environ-    be limited to the minimum needed to maintain
mental assessments are carried out at an early   the policy dialogue.
stage of project design to ensure that relevant  With regard to the sectoral composition of
alternative approaches are considered and that   IDA lending, the deputies agreed that lending
any potentially harmful impact is eliminated or   priorities should continue to promote IDA's
mitigated. Prospective borrowers are required   three main objectives. The deputies also indi-
to make the assessment available to affected    cated that the share of adjustment lending
groups and local nongovernmental organiza-   should remain at about 25 percent and not
tions and to carry out meaningful consultations    exceed 30 percent of total IDA lending. They
with them. The deputies recommended that   noted the impact that new claimants might
once an IDA borrower had made the assess-   have on this percentage, since initial programs
ment public, the same information should also   in countries that are emerging from civil wars
be made available to the public at the Bank's   and unrest are likely to be heavily weighted
headquarters in Washington. D.C. and at its   towards quick-disbursing operations. but were
field offices in member countries.           of the view that if such increased demand
Implementing IDA-IO.  In the deputies'   materialized, the ceiling could be exceeded
view, the IDA-10 period is one in which the    only with the approval of the executive direc-
association should deepen and strengthen im-   tors.



60   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
Concerns were raised about the quality of   and effectiveness of external assistance are
IDA's project portfolio, which shows a declining    also crucial, however. Effectiveness has al-
percentage of satisfactory projects, primarily    ways been a prime concern: in an era of finan-
in sub-Saharan Africa. The deputies therefore   cial constraints. it clearly takes on even greater
welcomed the substance of the recommenda-   importance.
tions of the portfolio-management task force    Shortly after being elected president of the
for improving the quality of project design and    Bank in September 1991. Lewis Preston deter-
implementation and added that they consid-    mined that it was incumbent upon the Bank to
ered management's preparation of a detailed    ensure that its loans actually produce the ben-
implementation plan based on the recommen-    efits for borrowers that are anticipated at the
dations of the task force report to be funda-   time of their approval by the executive direc-
mental to achieving the objective of improving    tors. The independent audits of the Bank's
portfolio performance. Deputies also affirmed    Operations Evaluation Department had shown
the need to improve borrowers' sense of own-    a declining success rate for IBRD and IDA
ership of projects and asked the association to    projects.
encourage borrowers to take the lead in project  With this in mind, Mr. Preston. in February
identification and to involve project agencies    1992. asked Willi Wapenhans, a senior man-
more fully, as their capacities allow. The im-   ager of the Bank with many years of opera-
portance of involving beneficiaries and af-   tional experience, to lead a Task Force on
fected population groups in the design and    Portfolio Management to examine the quality
implementation  of IDA-assisted  operations    of the World Bank portfolio and make recom-
was underscored.                              mendations on what might be needed to re-
While recognizing that responsibility for    verse the decline in the proportion of success-
project implementation rests with the bor-   ful projects over the past decade.
rower, the deputies endorsed IDA's plans to     After extensive analysis of extant materials,
improve the quality of project design and of   examination of best practices in the Bank's
project monitoring and supervision. IDA man-   operational complex, and three international
agement was urged to explore, for the execu-    workshops with borrowers, cofinancers, and
tive directors. how resident missions might   contractors, the task force issued a compre-
play an enhanced role in monitoring project   hensive report that was transmitted to the
implementation and in helping assess the capa-   executive directors in October.
bilities and weaknesses of borrowers' imple-    The Bank measures its portfolio perfor-
menting agencies.                             mance through two major instruments. First, it
The deputies attached particular importance    maintains a system of ratings during project
to the role that IDA plays in coordinating the    execution. The task force found on the basis of
efforts of donors in specific regions, countries,   these ratings that more than 75 percent of
and sectors. While commending IDA's various    Bank-assisted projects demonstrate good per-
coordination efforts, the deputies nonetheless   formance during implementation. An average
felt that still more could be done. They said,   20 percent-to-25 percent incidence of projects
for instance, that closer coordination with bi-   in difficulty is not particularly high for a devel-
lateral aid agencies could be achieved, that   opment institution like the Bank. As the report
IDA's resident representatives could do more    of the task force notes, a lower incidence might
to ensure that donors were kept informed    suggest that the Bank was not taking enough
about IDA assistance strategies and opera-   risks in what is fundamentally a high-risk bus-
tions, and that more effective use could be   iness. Moreover, ratings during implementa-
made of the skills and experience available in   tion are designed as a warning signal to prompt
the United Nations system  in support of   corrective action. Projects frequently move
IDA's country programs. especially in the ar-   from  being "problem  projects" to "good"
eas of human-resource and institutional devel-   ones following such corrective action (the re-
opment.                                       verse is also true when implementation dete-
riorates). Moreover, many "problem" projects
Portfolio Management                          achieve a large proportion of their physical and
Lending in support of priority developmen-   institutional objectives.
tal objectives-whether from the Bank or from    The Bank also measures portfolio perfor-
other sources-is important. Many developing    mance at project completion. when the actual
countries will have great difficulty in attaining    rate of return in real terms (or its qualitative
sustained growth, reducing poverty, and pro-   equivalent) is compared with the estimated
tecting the environment without the crucial   rate of return at the time of executive board
supplement to domestic savings and invest-   approval (see Box 3-7). The Bank sets itself
ment provided by foreign capital. The quality    high standards in this regard. requiring of all



Portfolio Management   61
Box 3-7. Measuring the Bank's Development Effectiveness
All the Bank's operations are evaluated after the    The outcomes are also assessed in terms of three
Bank finishes its loan disbursements. Evaluation    criteria-overall outcome  ("satisfactory"  or
enhances the Bank's internal and external ac-    "unsatisfactory"), sustainability (or the extent to
countability and transparency; provides a sys-    which an operation is likely to maintain an ac-
tematic. objective, and accessible track record;    ceptable level of benefits throughout its eco-
and supplies lessons from experience. Results    nomic life), and institutional development (eval-
and recommendations are reported to the Bank's    uators assess how the operations have affected
executive directors and are fed back into the    the environment for implementing development
design and implementation of policies and lend-    projects and programs).
ing operations.                                   Performance-by the Bank, by the borrower,
Every operation is evaluated, on completion,    and by the implementing agency-is also evalu-
by the staff who were responsible for its imple-    ated.
mentation. A representative sample of completed   The Bank's performance at the identification,
operations is independently evaluated by the Op-    preparation, appraisal, and supervision stages of
erations Evaluation Department (OED) of the    the project cycle is evaluated.
Bank.                                             The borrower's performance is evaluated in
To assess the developmental effectiveness of   terms of the policy environment created for the
completed operations, the OED looks at their    project, the level of commitment of the govern-
technical, financial, economic, social, and envi-    ment and of key institutions associated with the
ronmental aspects and provides ratings of their    project in both preparation and implementation,
performance and sustainability. The evaluation    the provision and reliability of funding to meet
process is grounded in the same criteria and    the local-currency costs of the operation, and the
policies that are used to judge operations pro-    administrative procedures employed. including
posed for financing.                            quality of decision making and level of interfer-
Completed operations are analyzed from three    ence.
perspectives:                                     Evaluators look at the performance of imple-
* relevance in relation to the policy context.    menting agencies, including the quality of man-
Evaluators assess whether the objectives of the    agement and staff associated with the project; the
operation were clear and consistent with country    effectiveness and use made of technical assis-
and sectoral-assistance strategies agreed between    tance, including the role of training, advisers, and
the borrower and the Bank and whether the    contractual services; the adequacy of monitoring
design of the operation was appropriate in terms    and evaluation systems; and the extent and qual-
of the Bank's goals of poverty reduction, envi-   ity of participation of intended beneficiaries, in-
ronmental protection, human-resource develop-    cluding their contribution to the project outcome.
ment, and private-sector development.             Exogenous factors-such as changes in prices
* efficacy, or the power to have an effect.   and world market conditions: natural disasters:
Evaluators review outcomes in relation to the    civil disorder and armed conflict; and actions of
objectives of the operation. whether physical,    partners, meaning those who are involved but are
financial, institutional, or policy related.    independent decisionmakers (cofinancers, non-
* efficiency. This assessment covers costs,    governmental agencies, contractors, and suppli-
implementation times, and economic and finan-    ers. for example)-are also taken into account in
cial goals. Where practicable, the economic rate   the evaluation process.
of return is reestimated.
projects that enter the portfolio a minimum  10    evaluation results fell from 85 percent in fiscal
percent rate of return in real terms (or its    1981 to 63 percent in fiscal 1991.
equivalent in qualitative terms when quantifica-     One important element contributing to the
tion is not feasible). In the most recent Annuial   increase in problem  projects was the interna-
Review of Evaluation Results by the Operations    tional economy. Changes in the world econ-
Evaluation  Department (OED). the average    omy in the 1970s and 1980s had an adverse
economic rate of return for the 120 projects    influence on the environment in which projects
completed in fiscal 1991, recalculated at project    were implemented. These effects largely re-
completion, was still an impressive 16 percent.    sulted from  declining terms of trade, rising
Nevertheless, there has been a decline in the    international interest and inflation rates, and
quality of the portfolio by both measures. The    declining  capital inflows. The volatility  of
share of projects with "major problems" dur-    world petroleum  prices also had a substantial
ing implementation rose from  II percent in    negative impact. In retrospect. it is perhaps not
fiscal 1981 to 18 percent in fiscal 1992 (see Box    surprising that. within uncertain and destabi-
3-8). while the proportion of projects judged    lized international and country environments.
satisfactory by the OED in its annual review of    local institutions did not perform  as well as



62   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
anticipated at the time of project appraisal and    intensified in all regions in the past two fiscal
that, in consequence, overall project perfor-    years, especially in those with a high incidence
mance declined.                                of problem projects. All regions have strength-
The task force concluded that there were    ened their efforts to deal with some of the most
also aspects of Bank practice that either may    common implementation problems, particularly
have  contributed  to  portfolio-management    procurement and audits.
problems or that were insufficiently effective   Considerably more needs to be done, how-
in resolving them. Underlying many of these    ever. The executive directors met several
aspects was the Bank's pervasive preoccupa-   times during the year to discuss the report's
tion with new lending at the expense of effec-   findings and recommendations, and in July
tive implementation  of the programs and    1993, they endorsed a detailed program  of
projects that it financed. As a result, the qual-   actions put forth by the Bank's management to
ity of projects at the time of their entry into the    strengthen portfolio management in the Bank.
portfolio-quality being defined to include,    The program  is designed to make the Bank
among other things, implementability and sus-    more effective in pursuing its basic goal of
tained local commitment-was not always    reducing poverty in borrowing countries.
what it might have been. The task force went     Instruments to monitor the implementation
on to say that it was vital to ensure that    of the action program are being put into place
borrowers "own" the projects and are com-    at the project, country, regional, and institu-
mitted to their effective implementation and    tional levels.
that more emphasis was needed on assessing       At the project level. accountability for port-
the risks that an operation may face. Evidence    folio management will rest with the country
that this was not always the case was the fact   and divisional units. The existing system  of
that the covenants included in loan agreements   supervision is being strengthened with addi-
with borrowers-provisions intended to ensure   tional resources and more systematic reviews
effective  implementation-were  too  rarely    of project performance by regional manage-
met.                                           ment. particularly for those projects identified
The task force's fundamental conclusion    as "facing problems." The Operations Evalu-
was that the Bank needed to modify some of its   ation Department will continue to provide les-
key institutional values that shape its approach    sons of experience.
to all facets of its lending operations. It con-  At the country level, two relatively new
cluded that the status of the Bank's portfolio   instruments are to play a major role: country
could be improved and its services to its bor-   portfolio-performance reviews (CPPRs) and
rowers strengthened through a wide array of   country-assistance strategy discussions. All re-
changes aimed at giving increased attention to    gions will conduct regular CPPRs, and the
the implementation of ongoing projects and at   findings will be reflected in country-assistance
achieving an appropriate balance between im-    strategies. Among other things, the CPPR will
plementation and the preparation of new oper-   assess the borrower's continuing ownership
ations.                                        and commitment to the existing country port-
The Bank's executive directors endorsed the    folio: review progress. and identify solutions to
general thrust of the task force's analysis,   problems, in key programs and projects under
conclusions, and recommendations. Taken to-   implementation: establish clear links between
gether, the task force's findings and sugges-   the country-assistance strategy and implemen-
tions provide highly useful guidance to all   tation performance; and develop with the bor-
providers of external resources for develop-    rower specific time-bound remedial-action pro-
ment in how the effective deployment of those    grams.
resources might be better ensured.               At the regional level, as part of the biannual
For the Bank, the task ahead is to incorpo-    briefings to the executive board on regional
rate the task force's recommendations into its   lending programs, the regional vice presidents
ongoing business practices and processes. Sev-    will present the implementation status of their
eral steps have already been taken. In recent    portfolios, including specific regional-action
years, various actions have been taken by the    programs.
Bank's regional departments to improve per-      At the institutional level. the annual report
formance, including portfolio restructuring.   on portfolio performance will inform executive
country strategy and implementation reviews.   directors of progress achieved and will develop
and increases in resources for portfolio man-    action plans to remedy generic implementation
agement. In fiscal 1992. for example. country-    problems.
implementation reviews for twenty of the thir-   The action plan to strengthen portfolio man-
ty-nine large-country portfolios were conducted.    agement also provides for more active project
Restructuring of country portfolios has been    and portfolio restructuring in cases in which a



Portfolio Management   63
Box 3-8. Reporting on Portfolio Management in Fiscal Year 1992
In February 1993, the "Annual Report on Port-    mental impact or effectiveness of projects at
folio Performance" for fiscal year 1992 was dis-    completion, the focus of the annual report is
seminated to the executive directors of the Bank    more on the timeliness and adequacy of the
for their consideration. It was the first review of    provision of project inputs (management, funds.
the status of the Bank's portfolio of operations    and so forth) and achievement of immediate
under implementation since the Task Force on    outputs (roads built, hectares irrigated, and
Portfolio Management issued its report five    schoolhouses constructed, for example).
months earlier. The annual report replaced the    Bearing these qualifications in mind. analysis
long-standing "Annual Report on Implementa-    of the project ratings of the fiscal 1992 operations
tion and Supervision."                          portfolio showed that:
The Bank's portfolio under implementation in    * At the Bankwide level, the overall status
fiscal 1992 comprised 1,852 operations with total   rating was somewhat better than in fiscal 1991,
lending commitments of $142.1 billion and an    largely because of active efforts of the regions to
undisbursed balance of $73.3 billion. While the    restructure. cancel, or close poorly performing
Bank was lending to eighty-three countries in    projects. Although the percentage of problem
fiscal 1992, the five largest borrowers-India,    projects declined somewhat, their total number-
China, Mexico. Indonesia, and  Brazil-ac-    339 projects accounting for $21.3 billion in lend-
counted for 22 percent of the total number of   ing commitments-remained a serious cause for
projects and more than 44 percent of total com-    concern.
mitments.                                         e At the regional level, performance varied,
Agriculture remained the dominant sector in    with four regional portfolios showing improve-
the fiscal 1992 portfolio (27 percent of the total    ment or no change and two (Europe and Central
number of projects and 21 percent of lending    Asia and Middle East and North Africa) showing
commitments), but its portfolio share was on the    some deterioration. The Africa region continued
decline compared with earlier years. The share of   to account for a disproportionately large share of
the human-resources sectors increased from less    problem projects.
than 13 percent in fiscal 1990 to about 16 percent  * At the country level, a larger number of
in fiscal 1992, and from 9 percent to 10 percent of    portfolios improved (thirty-six) than deteriorated
total commitments.                              (thirty). Forty country portfolios were basically
The implementation status of projects was    unchanged.
rated on a scale of from I to 4. 1 indicating no  * Two thirds of the total number of problem
significant problems and 4 indicating major prob-    projects in fiscal 1992 were in twenty-four coun-
lems that were not being addressed satisfactorily    try portfolios; over 35 percent of the total number
or which were beyond the capacity of the bor-    of problem projects was concentrated in only
rower to address. The overall status rating and    eight country portfolios. Country conditions in a
the percentage of problem projects basically in-    handful of borrowers (including Haiti. Peru, So-
dicate the implementation status at a point in time    malia. and Zaire) contributed to the high inci-
of a portfolio of ongoing projects. Unlike the    dence of problem projects in the Bank's portfolio
eventual assessments of the Operations Evalua-   in fiscal 1992.
tion Department, which focus on the develop-
country portfolio faces common implementa-           The action plan calls for enhancing the role
tion problems. Although  restructuring  is a    of the OED as an instrument of independent
lengthy process (because it serves to bridge    accountability and for giving greater emphasis
differences of views among central ministries.    to ex post evaluation. Specifically. the OED
relevant local authorities  or implementing    will.
agencies, and the Bank and its cofinancers).         * build up its program of impact evaluations.
in-country debate is essential for achieving    These evaluations take a "second look" at a
consensus and often is instrumental in resolv-    project five to ten years after the completion of
ing long-standing differences of views that may    loan disbursements. They examine how well
have interfered with project implementation    the benefits from  the project are being sus-
and portfolio performance.                         tained and analyze the project's direct and
Ways to improve the quality of projects    indirect economic and social effects, as well as
entering the portfolio. chief among which are    environmental and  institutional  outcomes.
the maintenance and broadening of country    They provide a much more conclusive account
commitment to project "ownership" and se-    of the Bank's development effectiveness than
curing  broad-based  participation  in project    is possible at project completion. when the
preparation, are also suggested in the action    facilities financed are just entering their oper-
program.                                           ational phase.



64   The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1993
* focus on country portfolios in selecting the    human resources, and public-sector manage-
operations to be evaluated and in planning    ment), and the Bank's needs are being re-
evaluation-studies programs: and               flected in the recruitment program  for fiscal
* diversify the scope of its evaluation stud-    1994.
ies. These will include studies of the Bank's    A new  performance-management process,
assistance to particular countries: reviews of   using a combination of reports on performance
sector policy and lending timed to feed into the    results, competencies, and development initia-
development of new Bank policies: evaluations    tives was introduced during the past year for
of the Bank's operational policies and pro-   the performance evaluation of managers. A
cesses: and quick studies of topical issues.   similar process is being designed for opera-
The portfolio management task force had    tional staff and is scheduled to be implemented
recommended that recruitment be directed to   in fiscal 1994. The attention of managers will
areas of skills that are in shortage at the Bank    henceforth be focused on staff performance
and that the Bank's system  of rewards and    in ensuring effective project implementation.
incentives be revised to take into account the    monitoring, and assistance; promoting client/
importance of portfolio-management work.   beneficiary participation and commitment; and
Headway has already been made in each of   ensuring conditions for long-term project de-
these areas. Skill gaps have been identified    velopment impact and sustainability. New pro-
(mainly in the areas of procurement, private-    motion criteria, which give added weight to
sector development, environment, the finan-    portfolio-management work, will also go into
cial sector, the social sciences, population and    effect in fiscal 1994.



65
Section Four
World Bank Finances
IBRD Financial Highlights                      on the IBRD's cost of outstanding borrowings
funding these loans. which are mostly medium-
In the fiscal year ending June 30, 1993. the    term to long-term issues carrying fixed-interest
IBRD achieved strong financial performance,   rates.
highlights of which are:                         The purpose of offering a choice of loan
* disbursements to countries of$12.9 billion;   terms is to facilitate improved borrower risk
* borrowing the equivalent of $12.7 billion in    management by providing eligible borrowers
twelve currencies, five after swaps;           more flexibility to select terms that meet their
* average medium-to-long-term  borrowing    business needs. During the pilot phase, single-
costs, after swaps. of 5.97 percent:           currency loans will be offered only to borrow-
* financial returns on the investment portfo-    ers that:
tio of 6.09 percent; and                         * have a need for a single-currency loan to
- net income of S1.130 million. well within    match revenues earned in United States dollars,
the range that satisfies the IBRD's financial    yen, deutsche mark. French francs, and/or
objectives.                                    pounds sterling:
Allocations of net income earned during        * are managed autonomously of their gov-
fiscal 1992 included:                          ernment and are expected by their government
* an allocation to the general reserve of $250    to service IBRD debt from their own revenues:
million, an amount that would keep the IBRD's   and
reserves-to-loans ratio during fiscal 1993 at II  * manage the risks associated  with  the
percent, at the minimum, excluding amounts   foreign-currency composition of their assets
set aside for prefunding of interest waivers:  and liabilities.
* an allocation of $1,095 million to surplus,  Provisioning. The level of loan-loss provi-
including $375 million to be transferred to IDA  sion is based on an assessment of the collect-
on the date of effectiveness of the tenth replen-   ibility of loans in nonaccrual status. together
ishment of the association's resources; and    with an evaluation of collectibility risks in the
* an immediate transfer of $300 million to   remainder of the portfolio. In late May 1993.
IDA.                                           loan-loss provisions were increased from 2.5
percent to 3 percent of total loans disbursed
Financial Policies                             and outstanding plus the present value of guaF-
Single-currency loans. In February  1993,    antees, for an amount equivalent to $3,150
the IBRI) announced the establishment of a    million. This amount is $610 million higher
two-year pilot program  to offer eligible bor-   than in the previous fiscal year when provi-
rowers a choice of currencies on their loans as    sioning amounted to $2,540 million. The prin-
an alternative to the existing standard loan    cipal basis for this increase was a deterioration
product. the targeted currency-pool loan. The    in the outlook for the collectibility of loans that
new  loan program  will offer United States    have been assumed by those successor states
dollars, yen. deutsche mark. French francs,    of the former Socialist Federal Republic of
and pounds sterling, or a combination of these    Yugoslavia (Yugoslavia) that are in nonaccrual
currencies. Its interest rate will be tied to    status. The IBRD has never incurred an actual
six-month LIBOR in each loan currency (Pl-   loss on loans or guarantees to any of its bor-
BOR  in the case of French francs). The    rowing member countries.
IBRD's targeted currency-pool loan is a mul-     Reserves ratio target. The IBRD also agreed
ticurrencv obligation: at least 90 percent of the    upon a plan to maintain its income-earning
pool is maintained in the ratio of I United    capacity by increasing its target for the ratio of
States dollar to 125 yen to 2 deutsche mark    reserves to loans to a range of 13 percent to 14
equivalent. The interest rate for the standard    percent. to be achieved during fiscal years 1994
loan product is calculated each semester based    to 1995, subject to the customary annual re-



66    World Bank Finances
Box 4-1. Modifications in the IBRD's Negative-pledge Policy
The negative-pledge clause is a standard feature   The objective is to facilitate the flow of private
of all IBRD loan agreements. Its basic purpose is   capital to boost the export earnings of transition-
to protect the Bank by prohibiting, among other   ing economies. As such, the modification will
things. member-country borrowers from estab-   tend to strengthen the long-term creditworthiness
lishing liens on public assets that would create a   of these economies. In order to achieve the twin
preference  for other creditors on  foreign-   objectives of assisting its members while protect-
exchange loans over the debt owed to the Bank.   ing the financial interest of the IBRD, the policy
In a number of Bank member countries that have   is subject to a number of important safeguards
started the transition to a market orientation, the   related to the eligibility of members, borrowers
most important assets are still publicly owned.   and lenders alike.
Until privatization of existing assets progresses  To be eligible, members would have at least 75
and is supplemented by new private investment,   percent of income-producing assets in the public
the predominant assets in these countries would   sector. In addition, they must have in place an
fall under the purview of the IBRD's negative   adequate macroeconomic policy framework and
pledge clause. In view of the circumstances of   a program of structural change. In response to a
these transition economies, this would make it  request from  a member, the executive board
difficult, if not impossible, for public-sector en-   could grant a country-specific waiver for an ini-
terprises to enter into much needed financial   tial period of three years, subject to extension
relationships with private creditors without either   (after a review by the board) for a further two
requesting a waiver of the negative-pledge clause   years. It would apply to liens securing external
or granting equal and ratable security to the   debt (with a maturity of at least five years) used
IBRD. Yet such private lending is expected to be   to finance specific investment projects.
an important source of financial support for the  The borrower must be a special-purpose entity,
transition process and crucial, in some cases, to   its assets and liabilities being limited to the proj-
developing early improvements in productivity,   ect for which the loan secured by lien is made.
output, and capacity to earn foreign exchange.   Lenders for such special-purpose entities are
In response to the needs of these members, the   subject to certain eligibility criteria, including as
Bank's executive board approved in March 1993   to their nonpublic character and whether alterna-
a general policy under which countries in transi-  tive recourse arrangements are available. Under
tion could be granted a temporary waiver of the   certain circumstances, lending from official agen-
negative-pledge clause under certain conditions.   cies would be permitted under the waiver.
view. When combined with accumulated sur-    ments were $2.425 million, an increase of $607
plus funds awaiting future disposition. reserves    million over the previous year's total of $1.818
plus surplus represented 12.8 percent of loans    million.
at the end of fiscal 1993. The planned increase      Lending rate. Under the IBRD's current
in the reserves ratio would result in additional    semiannual variable lending-rate system, the
income-generating capacity to offset the grad-    interest rate was 7.60 percent for the first
ual decline in net income from older fixed-rate    semester and 7.43 percent for the second se-
loans that will be amortized over the next few     mester of fiscal 1993. By comparison. the other
years. The IBRD decided to do so at this time    variable-lending rate-applicable to loans for
because it has an opportunity to build reserves    which invitations to negotiate were sent before
while continuing its practice of waiving some    May 18. 1989, and not converted by borrowers
loan charges and transferring some net income    to the new system-was 7.58 percent and 7.40
to IDA or to other similar uses. By protecting    percent. respectively, for the first and second
its earning capacity, the IBRD will be better    semesters of fiscal 1993. The difference be-
able to sustain such loan-charge waivers and    tween the rates is due to differences in alloca-
income transfers into the future.                  tions of borrowings to lending and/or to invest-
Negative-pledge policv. The IBRD  modi-    ments and to the weights applied to currency-
fied its negative-pledge policy with respect to    specific costs. The  single-currency  lending
lending for investment projects during the year    rates applicable in the second semester of 1993
(see Box 4-1).                                     (based  on  the  IBRD's cost of six-month
LIBOR-based funding in each loan currency
Loans                                              (PIBOR in the case of French francs)) were
Disbtursements. Gross disbursements by the    3.72 percent in United States dollars, 3.86
IBRD  to countries during fiscal 1993 were    percent in yen, 8.35 percent in deutsche mark,
$12,942 million, up $1,276 million from fiscal    10.99 percent in French francs. and 7.20 per-
1992's total of $11,666 million. Net disburse-    cent in pounds sterling.



Borrowings and Liability Management   67
Interest waivers. During fiscal 1993, the    ering both credit risk and interest-rate risk.
IBRD waived thirty-five basis points of the    Trading performance is continuously measured
semester interest rate on loans, provided that   against detailed benchmark portfolios.
the borrowers had made all loan-service pay-    Enhancements were made in the manage-
ments within thirty days of their due date. This    ment of the IBRD's liquid assets in the follow-
waiver was in addition to the continuation    ing areas: further exploitation of multiple trad-
during the year of the reduction of the IBRD's   ing approaches; continued integration of the
commitment fee on undisbursed balances from    computer systems across trading. accounting,
seventy-five to twenty-five basis points.     and control functions; and continued improve-
This policy of encouraging timely payments    ments in the performance-measurement sys-
by IBRD borrowers continues to be highly   tem and in various risk-monitoring systems.
successful. Because of the improvement in the   During fiscal 1993. the IBRD's financial re-
timeliness of payments, approximately 80 per-   turn on its portfolio was 6.09 percent. The
cent of the IBRD's total volume of outstanding    financial return on investments in fiscal year
loans is currently eligible for the interest-spread    1992 was 8.07 percent. The change reflects
waiver.                                       lower levels of short-term interest rates.
Loans in nonaccruial statuts. At the end of
fiscal 1993, four member countries (Congo.   Borrowings and Liability Management
Iraq, Liberia. and Syria), as well as three     The objectives of the IBRD's borrowing and
successor republics of the former Socialist   liability-management strategy are to ensure the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the Federal   long-term availabilitv of funds to the IBRD for
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montene-   lending and liquidity and to minimize the costs
gro), Bosnia-Herzegovina. and the Former Yu-   of funds for the IBRD and its borrowers.
goslav Republic of Macedonia) were in nonac-    The IBRD seeks to ensure the availability of
crual  status.  The  other  two  Yugoslav    funds by developing borrowing capacity in
successor states, the Republics of Croatia and    markets in advance of need and by diversifying
Slovenia. are current in their debt-service ob-   its borrowings by currency, country, source,
ligations to the IBRD. The three Yugoslav    and maturity to provide maximum flexibility in
successor states in nonaccrual status were the   funding. It also seeks to strengthen the con-
only new  entrants during the fiscal year.   tinuing appeal of its securities by offering
Among the four holdovers from fiscal 1992,   features that are tailored to satisfy investors'
Syria has been making periodic debt-service    asset preferences and by positioning its secu-
payments to the IBRD.                         rities advantageously in each capital market
Guatemala and Peru came out of nonaccrual   (for example, from a regulatory-tax and invest-
status during the fiscal year. Early in Novem-    ment-classification perspective). Another ob-
ber 1992, Guatemala made a payment reducing   jective of the IBRD is to diversify the markets
arrears from $63 million to $49.5 million, and    for its securities by offering them to private
cleared the remainder of the arrears on No-    and governmental buyers in as many markets
vember 23. Peru. which had been in nonac-   as offer terms acceptable to the IBRD.
crual status since August 1987, cleared all     Within the framework of the currency com-
arrears on March 18. 1993 with a payment of   position of borrowings required by cash and
$867 million.                                 currency-management policy, the IBRD seeks
to minimize the cost of borrowed funds
Liquid-assets Management                      through. among other things, the use of cur-
At the end of fiscal 1993. the IBRD's liquid-   rency swaps to obtain cost savings compared
ity totaled $18.5 billion, equivalent to about 45    with the cost of direct borrowings in target
percent of anticipated net cash requirements   currencies: the use of short-term and variable-
over the next three fiscal years. At the end of   rate instruments; and prepayment, market re-
fiscal 1992, liquiditv amounted to $20.86 bil-   purchases. and refinancing of higher-cost bor-
lion. The IBRD's primary objective in holding    rowings where significant savings can be
such liquidity is to ensure flexibility in its   realized.
borrowing decisions should borrowing be ad-     Medium-term and Ilong-termt (ML T).finding.
versely affected by temporary conditions in the    During fiscal year 1993, the IBRD raised $12.7
capital markets.                              billion through MLT borrowings in twelve cur-
The IBRD's liquid assets are invested exclu-   rencies and currency units. including $11.2
sively in fixed-income markets and are actively    billion of fixed-rate borrowings and $1.5 billion
traded in various capital and money markets.   of variable-rate borrowings. After $3.6 billion
The attendant portfolio-management activities    of currency swaps and a notional par volume of
are fully supported by comprehensive risk-    $3.8 billion of interest-rate swaps, all of the
management and monitoring procedures cov-    year's borrowings were fixed-rate liabilities



68    World Bank Finances
Table 4-1. IBRD Borrowings, Fiscal Year 1993
(amounts in millions)
US-dollar
Type                                      Issue                        Currency of issue    equivalent'
Medium- and long-term puiblic offerings
Eurobond market  8.25% ten-year bonds, due 2003                     Can$          250      196.0
7.25% five-year bonds, due 1998                  Can$          250      198.4
6.75% five-year bonds, due 1998                  Can$          250      197.5
Five-year floating-rate notes, due 1997          Can$          100       80.8
8.125% seven-year bonds, due 1997                F           1,500      279.3
7.25% six-year bonds, due 1998                                350      532.1
10.75% ten-year bonds, due 2003                  Lit       200,000      125.9
10.80% ten-year bonds, due 2003                  Lit       300,000      200.4
7.625% five-year bonds, due 1997                 f.            750      454.5
6.75% ten-year bonds, due 2003                   f.            750      424.1
Five-year floating-rate notes. due 1998          US$           100      100.0
Ten-year floating-rate notes, due 2002           US$           400      400.0
Germany           Ten-year floating-rate notes, due 2003            DM            200      128.9
Ten-year reverse floating-rate notes. due 2003   DM            250      157.6
9% seven-year bonds, due 2000 (Series B)         DM             92       58.0
8.50% eight-year bonds, due 2001 (Series B)      DM             59       36.2
Spain              12.45% five-year bonds, due 1998                 Ptas       10,000       88.0
10.35% five-year bonds, due 1998                 Ptas       10,000       81.1
Switzerland       6.25% seven-year notes. due 1999                  Sw F          500      391.7
United States     Five-year floating-rate notes, due 1997           US$           100      100.0
Five-year floating-rate notes, due 1997          US$            28       28.0
Five-year floating-rate notes, due 1997          US$            50       50.0
Global            4.5% five-year bonds, due 1997                    v         225,000     1,855.0
4.5% ten-year bonds, due 2003                    V         200,000    1,664.1
5.875% five-year bonds, due 1997                 US$         1,500    1,491.4
7,625% thirty-year bonds, due 2023               US$         1,250    1,243.6
Total medium- and long-term public offerings                                           10,562.6
Medium- and long-term placements with c entral banks atnd governments
Germany            8.48% five-year note, due 1997                   DM            250      168.5
6.86% five-year note, due 1998                   DM            250      158.4
Internationalt    4.125% two-vear notes. due 1995                   Sw F          122       80.2
6.625% two-year notes, due 1994                  Sw F          190      146.3
4.19% two-year bonds, due 1994                   US$           150      150.0
4.89% two-year bonds, due 1994                   US$           132      131.5
3.89%s two-year bonds, due 1995                  USS            96       96.3
4.25% two-year bonds, due 1995                   USs            76       76.4
Total medium- and long-term other placements with central banks and governments           1.007.6
Medium- and long-term other placements
Europe            Seven-year floating-rate notes, due 1999          f              25       47.4
11.95% ten-year notes. due 2002                  Lit        50.000       44.5
12.125% five-year notes, due 1997                Lit        30.000       26.7
I 1% ten-year notes, due 2002                    Lit        50.000       44.1
7.625% nine and one half year notes, due 2002    Ir            40       57.4
Five-year floating-rate notes. due 1997          US$            10       10.0
Five-year floating-rate notes. due 1997          US$            30       30.0
Five-year floating-rate notes. due 1997          US$            20       20.0
Five-vear floating-rate notes. due 1997          US$            75       75.0
Ten-year floating-rate notes. due 2002           US$            25       25.0
Ten-vear floating-rate notes. due 2002           US$           100      100.0
Ten-year floating-rate notes, due 2002           US$            50       49.8
Five-vear floating-rate notes, due 1997          ECU            15       20.6
Seven-year floating-rate notes. due 1999         ECU            50       69.0
Japan             5.65% eighteen-vear loan, due 2010                v          30,000      243.1
5.43% twelve-year loan, due 2005                 X          10,000       79.8
Switzerland       6.75% ten-year notes. due 2002                    Sw F          200      153.3
United States     Three-year floating-rate notes. due 1996          US$            10       10.0
Total medium- and long-term other placements                                            1,105.7
Total medium- and long-term borrowings, fiscal 1993                                        12,675.9



Borrowings and Liability Management    69
US-dollar
Type                                        Issue                         Currency of issue     equivalent'
Short-ter,n borrowsings ourstandingc
Central-bank facility (U.S. dollars)                                  US$          2.483       2.483.0
COPS (Swiss francs)d                                                  Sw F            -             -
Discount notes (U.S. dollars)                                         US$          1,306       1,305.7
Short-term borrowings outstanding as of June 30. 1993                                        3,788.7
a. Medium- and long-term amounts based on gross proceeds, expressed at exchange rates prevailing at the time of launch.
b. These issues were placed with central banks, government agencies, and international organizations.
c. Maturing within one year.
d. Continuously offered payment rights in Swiss francs.
Table 4-2. IBRD Borrowings, after Swaps, Fiscal Year 1993
(amounts in US$ millions equivalent)
Before swaps        Currency             After swaps
Maturity   swaps                    Maturity   Cost
Item                                 Amount   %    (years)  (amount)   Amount   %    (years)    0)
Medium- and long-term
borrowings
U.S. dollars                          4,187.0   33    12.8      (847.6)   3,339.4   26    13.9    6.44
Japanese yen                          3.842.0   30      8.1         0.0    3,842.0   30      81      4.68
Deutsche mark                           707.6    6      7.3    3,577.4    4,285.0   34       7.2    6.65
Swiss francs                            771.5    6      6.1         0.0      771.5    6      6.1     6.18
Othersa                               3,167.8   25      7.1   (2,729.8)      438.0    3    10.0    6.71
Total                              12,675.9  100      9.3               12.675.9  100      9.3     5.97
Short-term borrow ings outstanding
Central-bank facility (U.S. dollars)   2.483.0   66     0.5                                          3.59
COPS (Swiss francs)b                     -                                                             -
Discount notes (U.S. dollars)         1,305.7   34      0.3                                          3.57
Total as of June 30, 1993'          3,788.7  100      0.4                                          3.58
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Represents borrowings in Canadian dollars, European currency units, French francs, Irish pounds. Italian lire,
Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Spanish pesetas.
b. Continuously offered payments rights in Swiss francs. No outstanding amounts as of end of fiscal 1993.
c. Short-term borrowings outstanding on June 30. 1992, totaled $5,373.6 million.
denominated  in  United  States dollars. yen,    were Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and
deutsche mark. Swiss francs, and Dutch guil-    Italian lire, in which $0.7 billion, $0.6 billion.
ders. The average maturity of this funding was          and $0.4 billion were raised, respectively. The
9.3 years. and the after-swap cost was 5.97             IBRD also raised $0.1 billion through its first-
percent (see Tables 4-1 and 4-2).                       ever Irish pound-denominated borrowing. The
Noteworthy among the transactions in the             structured financings and currency-swap pro-
IBRD's core currencies during the past year    gram  achieved substantial cost savings com-
were two United States-dollar global-bond is-           pared with the cost of conventional fixed-rate
sues, for a total of $2.6 billion, including a          or floating-rate financings of similar maturities
$1.25 billion thirty-year issue launched in Jan-    in the IBRD's core currencies.
uary 1993. and two Japanese yen global-bond               During fiscal year 1993. the IBRD called an
offerings, totaling $3.5 billion. The IBRD also         aggregate volume of $2.3 billion of borrowings
raised $0.7 billion through structured financing        for prepayment, comprising $1.9 billion of yen
transactions  in  United  States  dollars  and          borrowings, $0.2 billion of deutsche mark bor-
deutsche mark. In turn, the principal vehicle           rowings, and  $0.2 billion  of United  States-
currencies used for swaps into deutsche mark            dollar and Belgian franc borrowings. In addi-



70   World Bank Finances
tion. it redeemed $0.3 billion of United States-    and uses of IDA funding for fiscal year 1992.
dollar and yen borrowings through market re-    The pattern of allocations to regions, coun-
purchases.                                     tries, and sectors was described, as were the
At the end of the fiscal year. MLT funding    levels of donor and nondonor resources avail-
outstanding amounted to $93.7 billion, or 96    able for commitment. The directors took note
percent of total outstanding  debt. As of   of the progress made during the year on the
June 30, 1993. the average maturity of total    key IDA-9 objectives.
MLT debt was 6.4 years, and its average cost,    During fiscal 1993, 123 IDA credits were
after swaps. was 6.90 percent.                 approved in the amount of SDR4.8 billion.
Short-term fiunding. As of June 30, 1993,      IDA's commitment authority. The commit-
short-term  borrowings outstanding were $3.8    ment period for IDA-9 closed at the end of
billion equivalent, a reduction of $1.6 billion    June 1993. As of June 30, 1993. donor contri-
equivalent  compared  with  the  level  of   butions to IDA-9 totaled SDR11,121 million.
June 30, 1992. Short-term  borrowings out-    The commitment authority from reflows ap-
standing at June 30, 1993 comprised $2.5 bil-   proved by the executive directors for the fiscal
lion from official sources through the IBRD's   1991-93 period and other resources amounted
central-bank facility and $1.3 billion from mar-   to SDR3.304 million. Therefore, total available
ket borrowings in United States dollars. The    IDA resources for the IDA-9 period totaled
cost of these borrowings was 3.58 percent,   SDR14,425 million. Against these resources,
compared with 3.75 percent at the end of fiscal   the association made IDA-9 credit commit-
1992.                                          ments of SDR13,728 million. Thus, at the end
On June 30, 1993, short-term and variable-    of fiscal 1993, there remained an uncommitted
rate funding aggregated $3.8 billion equivalent,   balance of about SDR700 million. The balance
representing about 4 percent of total outstand-    arose as a result of (a) unpredictable increases
ing debt.                                      in commitment authority in the latter part of
Capital. On June 30. 1993, the total sub-   fiscal 1993 (namelv, the waiver by most donors
scribed capital of the IBRD was $165.6 billion,    of their "pro-rata rights'" in regard to their
or 90 percent of authorized capital of $184.05    IDA-9 contributions and an exchange gain in
billion. During fiscal 1993, subscriptions to the    the value of IDA-9 donor contributions) and (b)
$74.8 billion general capital increase (GCI).   slippages of a few lending operations that did
approved in April 1988, continued smoothly.    not materialize as anticipated and are now
Thirty-three countries subscribed an aggregate    expected in the first half of fiscal 1994, includ-
$11.5 billion. A total of 518,981 GCI shares   ing delays in expected operations to new and
($63 billion, or 78 percent of total allocations,   reactivating borrowers.
including additional GCI shares allocated to     IDA's commitment fee. IDA's commitment
new members that joined the IBRD after April   fee was set at 0 percent from  fiscal 1989
1988) have now been subscribed by seventy-   through fiscal 1993. For each fiscal year, the
seven members; 150,300 shares ($18.1 billion)   level of the commitment fee is set bv the
remain to be subscribed. At the end of fiscal   executive directors based on an annual review
1993. the permissible increase of net disburse-    of IDA's financial position. The commitment
ments ("headroom") was $79 billion, or 43    fee for fiscal 1994 was set at 0 percent for all
percent of the IBRD's lending limit.           IDA credits, including Special Fund credits
Reserves. On  June  30.  1993, reserves    approved in fiscal 1983 and fiscal 1984.
amounted to $12.0 billion, and the reserves-to-
loan ratio stood at 11.4 percent (excluding    Cofinancing
prefunding of interest waivers).                 As in past years, the vice presidency for
Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services
IDA Finances                                   (CFS) continued to act as a catalyst of financial
In September 1992. the executive directors   flows to developing countries and to provide
discussed a report on IDA's policies, opera-    various forms of cofinancing-related support to
tions, and finances in the second year (fiscal   the Bank's operational departments and recip-
1992') of the ninth replenishment of IDA (IDA-    ient countries. The volume of cofinancing an-
9). The report focused on IDA's deepening    ticipated in support of World Bank-assisted
efforts in the priority areas of poverty reduc-    operations in fiscal 1993 was $11.2 billion, a
tion. sound economic management, and the    decline from $13.2 billion in fiscal 1992 (see
environment. The key instruments for making    Table 4-3). The decline was caused by reduc-
progress in these often interrelated areas in-   tions in official and export-credit cofinancing.
cluded  IDA  country  strategies, analytical    Two reasons in particular contributed to the
work, policy dialogue, and lending programs.   reduction in cofinancing: Economic slowdown
The report also covered the aggregate sources   in donor countries led to reductions in the aid



Cofinancing    71
Table 4-3. World Bank Cofinancing Operations, by Region, Fiscal Years 1992-93
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
Projects               Source of cofinancing'             World Bank       Total
cofinanced      Official'    Export credit   Private       contribution    project
Region and year     No.  Amount  No. Amount No. Amount No. Amount  IBRD                  IDA       costs
Africa
1992             48   4,883.8   48  2,974.4   1   1,174.2    1    735.2   548.0  2.445.5   9,283.3
1993             40   1,167.9   40  1,154.4   1       10.0   2       3.5    27.0  1.559.9   3,224.6
East Asia and
Pacific
1992             17   3,337.8   17  1,208.3   4   1,956.2   2    173.3  2,173.5   147.0  11,364.6
1993             13   1,052.8   11   523.6   2       156.5   2    372.7   880.4   165.9   3,330.9
South Asia
1992             12     637.0   11   281.8   2       206.7    1    148.5  1,045.0   903.3   4.065.2
1993             11   2,105.2   11  1.716.2   2      289.0    1    100.0  1.145.0   949.0   8,098.4
Europe and
Central Asia
1992              8     407.5    8   407.5   -          -    -        -   1.272.0    41.1   2,352.5
1993             18   1,426.7   18  1,426.7   -        -    -         -   2,041.0   100.4   4,344.9
Latin America and
the Caribbean
1992             21   2.654.5  21  2.654.5   -         -    -         -   2,063.3   323.6   6,431.6
1993             26   3,557.3   26  1,860.4   1    699.8    2    997.1  2,709.8   248.5  10,382.6
Middle East and
North Africa
1992             10   1,272.6   10  1,272.6   -        -    -         -     940.0   158.0   3,424.7
1993             10   1,919.9    8  1,077.4   1       47.8    3    794.7  1,239.0       -    6,132.0
Total
1992            116  13,193.1  115  8,799.0   7   3,337.1    4   1,057.0  8,041.8  4.018.5  36,921.8
1993            118  11,229.7  114  7.758.6   7   1.203.1  10  2,268.0  8.042.2  3,023.7  35,513.3
- Zero.
NOTE: The number of operations shown under different sources add up to a figure exceeding the total number of cofinanced
projects because a number of projects were cofinanced from more than one source. Details may not add to totals because
of rounding.
a. These statistics are compiled from the financing plans presented at the time of approval of the W'orld Bank loans and
credits by its board of executive directors. The amounts of official cofinancing are, in most cases, firm commitments by that
stage; export credits and private cofinancing amounts, however, are generally only estimates since such cofinancing is
actually arranged as required for project implementation and gets firmed up a year or two after board approval. The statistics
of private cofinancing in these tables for any fiscal year do not necessarily reflect market placements in that year.
b. These figures include cofinancing with untied loans from the Export-import Bank of Japan.
budgets of several donors; furthermore, the             were energy, population, transportation, and
Bank's  fiscal  1993  portfolio  of approved            urban development. Investment loans received
projects did not contain  large infrastructure          the largest share of anticipated  coftnancing
projects  that so  influenced  the  fiscal 1992         support. followed by emergency reconstruc-
cofinancing total. Nonetheless, the decline in    tion   loans.  sector-adjustment  loans,  and
cofinancing is viewed with concern, and a task          structural-adjustment loans.
force  has  been  established  to  review  the            The largest source of cofinancing anticipated
Bank's experience with cofinancing over the             in fiscal 1993 continued to be official bilater-
past decade and to examine current policies             al and  multilateral development institutions
and objectives.                                         which. together, accounted for $7,759 million,
In fiscal 1993, about 48 percent of all Bank-        or 69 percent of the total. Official cofinancing
assisted  projects  and  programs  were  cofi-    from Japan, mainly through the Overseas Eco-
nanced. Sectors expected to receive the most            nomic  Cooperation  Fund  and  the  Export-
support in terms of cofinancing amounts were            Import Bank of Japan, continued to account
urban development, nonproject. energy, and              for the largest percentage of support to Bank-
transportation. Sectors showing  a large  in-           assisted operations, with an aggregate amount
crease of support (compared with fiscal 1992)    of $1,821 million equivalent for twenty-eight



72   World Bank Finances
projects, or 42 percent of total bilateral cofi-   had allocated some $5.3 billion, or nearly 80
nancing. Other large bilateral cofinancing an-    percent of the pledged amount and had dis-
ticipated included Italy ($213 million equiva-    bursed some 50 percent, or more than $2.5
lent). Germany ($166 million equivalent), the    billion, of these allocations in the eligible coun-
Netherlands ($127 million equivalent). the    tries. In addition to mobilizing resources, a key
United States ($113 million equivalent), and    objective of the SPA is to improve the quality
France ($98 million equivalent). Cofinancing    of donors' adjustment assistance; under the
expected from  multilateral financial institu-    SPA. many donors have untied their assistance
tions totaled $3,396 million. Cofinancing with    and are supporting market-oriented foreign-
the Inter-American Development Bank ($804    exchange allocation systems in the recipient
million) continued to be the largest in this   countries.
category, accounting for 24 percent of the       The focus of proiect-financing in CFS activ-
total. Other notable cofinancing support came    ities continued to be on large infrastructure
from the European Investment Bank. the Eu-    projects, such as power and road projects,
ropean Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-    where large amounts of financing are required.
ment, the European Development Fund, and    In structuring these projects, emphasis is
the Asian Development Bank.                    placed on mobilizing maximum  amounts of
The volume of private cofinancing increased    private capital. However, the need for long-
by 115 percent from $1,057 million in fiscal    maturity capital has led to an increased de-
1992 to $2,268 million in fiscal 1993, reflecting    mand for credit enhancement to mobilize pri-
improved access of borrowing member coun-    vate commercial debt. An important vehicle
tries to global capital markets. However, the    for such operations is the expanded cofinanc-
volume of export-credit cofinancing planned    ing operation (ECO) program, which provides
for projects approved during the year de-    partial Bank guarantees to support borrowers
creased substantially, from $3,337 million in   in gaining access to syndicated bank loans and
fiscal 1992 to $1,203 million. Much of this   international capital markets. During the past
difference can be attributed to three unusually    year, interest has grown on the part of com-
large infrastructure projects approved in fiscal    mercial markets and member countries in the
1992 that attracted $2,992 million in planned    ECO program as a means of catalyzing private
cofinancing. In addition, Bank lending for   financing in a broad range of developmental
projects in the energy sector-a sector that    projects. ECO operations are under consider-
traditionally attracts more than its share of   ation in several countries, including China.
cofinancing-amounted in fiscal 1993 to only    Colombia. India, Pakistan, and the Philippines.
89 percent of the level of lending in the previ-    An ECO for the 1,292-mW Hub Power Project
ous year. Thus, the drop in export-credit cofi-   in Pakistan is the most advanced: it is expected
nancing may be attributed to sectoral varia-   to be completed during fiscal 1994. CFS is also
tions in the Bank's overall lending operations,    assisting in mobilizing private cofinancing not
since export credits are largely associated with   involving the use of the ECO program, such as
projects that require major imports of capital   in the case of the Rockfort Power Project in
goods.                                         Jamaica. The project involves a privately
In fiscal 1993. the export-credit enhanced    owned. 60-mW diesel power station, which has
leverage (EXCEL) program, designed to mo-    attracted medium-term  commercial cofinanc-
bilize export-credit cofinancing to medium-    ing through the use of IBRD funds and cofi-
sized enterprises in selected developing coun-    nancing from the Inter-American Development
tries, was implemented in the Philippines.    Bank.
Under this project, $75 million of support from  CFS  also provides advisory services to
five export-credit agencies was mobilized in    member countries on debt and debt-service
parallel with a Bank loan of $175 million. Other   reduction (DDSR). During fiscal 1993, DDSR
EXCEL possibilities are currently under con-    operations were completed for Bolivia. Guy-
sideration.                                    ana. and Uganda under the Bank's Debt-
Other major cofinancing activities continued    reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries. To
in fiscal 1993 included those under the special    date, a total of $623 million of principal in
program of assistance (SPA) for sub-Saharan    external commercial debt in IDA countries has
Africa. Under the second phase of the SPA,    been extinguished through the facility at a cost
covering the period 1991-93, donors pledged    of $45 million in IBRD resources. Bilateral
$7 billion of cofinancing and coordinated financ-    donors. including Canada, France. Germany.
ing for quick-disbursing balance-of-payments   the Netherlands, Switzerland. Sweden. and
assistance in support of adjustment programs in   the United States, as well as the European
twenty-seven eligible countries in sub-Saharan    Community. have contributed an additional
Africa. As of December 31, 1992, SPA donors    $48 million to these operations. Facility oper-



Cofinoncing    73
Table 44. IBRD and IDA Foreign and Local Disbursements, bv Source of Supply
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD and IDA
Net advance
Foreign'                 Local              disbursements'          Total
Period                Amount         Cr       Amount        %         Amount                   amount
Cumulative to
June 30, 1988        76.752        58        52.309       39         3.525          3        132,586
Fiscal 1989             8.939        59         5.891       39          236           2         15,066
Fiscal 1990             8.883        57         6,099       39          648           4         15,629
Fiscal 1991             8.878        57         6.605       42           184          1         15,667
Fiscal 1992             9.038        55         6.807       42          537           3         16,381
Fiscal 1993             9.946        57         7.753       45         -326         -2          17.374
Cumulative to
June 30, 1993       122.437        58        85,464       40         4,802          2        212.704
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Amounts exclude debt reduction disbursements of $2,160 million in FY90, $313 million in FY91, $50 million in FY92. and
$515 million in FY93 for IBRD and $8 million in FY91. SIO million in FY92, and $21 million in FY93 for IDA.
b. Net advance disbursements are advances made to special accounts net of amounts recovered (amounts for which the Bank
has applied evidence of expenditures to recovery of the outstanding advance).
Table 4-5. IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Source of Supply
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD                                       IDA
OECD          Non-OECD        Total        OECD           Non-OECD        Total
Period             Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   Amount   X    Amount   9    Amount
Cumulative to
June 30. 1988    50,285    87      7.384    13    57.669     15,693    82    3.390      18    19.082
Fiscal 1989         5,182    78      1,470    22     6.652      1,734    76      553    24       2.287
Fiscal 1990         5,290    79      1,388    21     6.678      1,491    68      714    32       2,205
Fiscal 1991         4,953    80      1,231    20     6,184      1.802    67       891    33      2,694
Fiscal 1992         5,067    76      1.634    24     6.701      1.515    65       822    35      2,337
Fiscal 1993         5,051    71     2,035    29      7.086      1.784    62     1.076    38      2,860
Cumulative to
June 30, 1993    75.829    83    15.143    17    90,973    24,018    76    7,447       24    31,465
NOTE: Disbursements for debt reduction, and net advance disbursements are excluded for IBRD and IDA. Details may not
add to totals because of rounding. OECD amounts are based on current OECD membership.
ations are currently under preparation for Al-    programs.includingthosein Argentina. Kazakh-
bania, Nicaragua, Sao Tome and  Principe.    stan, Russia. and Ukraine. This assistance was
Sierra Leone. Tanzania, and Zambia. CFS also          highly leveraged by funds mobilized from  bi-
provided advisory services on DDSR deals for    lateral donors. Efforts were also  begun  to
Argentina, Brazil. Bulgaria, Ecuador, Panama.    provide  common  information  services  on
Peru, and Poland. among others, in fiscal 1993.    privatization to the Bank and client countries:
CFS significantly strengthened its privatiza-       "Best practice"' and comparative studies on
tion and private-sector development activities    the privatization experience were undertaken.
during the year. The primary focus continued          and new instruments and approaches to mobi-
to be on providing technical services in the          lize private finance for privatization and enter-
design and supervision of Bank operations in          prise development were designed. Among the
these two areas. Overall, eleven years of staff    efforts to disseminate privatization experience
and consultant support for forty-five projects        were a review of privatization of Japan's rail-
was provided to the six regions, with a major    way and telecommunications sectors. an over-
increase going to the Europe and Central Asia         view  of Tunisia's privatization  program. an
region. In-depth  direct technical assistance         assessment of Eastern  Europe's experience
was also provided to a number of privatization        with small-scale privatization and medium and



74     World Bank Finances
Table 4-6. IBRD and IDA Payments to Suppliers in Active Borrowing Countries for
Foreign and Local Procurement in Fiscal 1993
(millions of US dollars)
Percentage
Local              Foreign           Total              of total
Borrowing countnes                             procurement         procurement        amount           disbursementsa
Albania                                                        t                           t                  *
Algeria                                             47                  13                61               0.35
Angola                                                t                -                   f                  *
Argentina                                          455                 112               567               3.26
Bahamas. The                                         4                  t                  4                  *
Bangladesh                                         147                  4                151               0.87
Barbados                                                                 I                 I
Belize                                                I                  t                 I
Benin                                               11                   t                11               0.07
Bhutan                                               t                 -                   t                  *
Bolivia                                             36                  4                 39               0.23
Botswana                                            10                  3                 13               0.07
Brazil                                             452                363                815               4.69
Bulgaria                                             t                  4                  4                  *
Burkina Faso                                        32                  t                 32               0.19
Burundi                                              13                  t                13               0.08
Cameroon                                            33                   2                36               0.21
Cape Verde                                            I                                    I                  *
Central African Republic                             9                   1                10               0.06
Chad                                                 11                  t                11               0.06
Chile                                              120                  55               175               1.01
China                                              833                256               1,089              6.27
Colombia                                           192                 63                255               1.47
Comoros                                               I                  t                 I
Congo                                                t                   t                 I
Costa Rica                                           5                  4                  8                  *
Cote d'lvoire                                       47                  27                73               0.42
Croatia                                             -                   7                  7                  *
Cyprus                                               12                 11                23               0.13
Czechoslovakiab                                     -                   10                10               0.06
Czech Republic                                      -                   10                10               0.06
Djibouti                                             2                  5                  6                  *
Dominica                                            -                   t                  t                  *
Dominican Republic                                   9                  5                 14               0.08
Ecuador                                             35                  9                 45               0.26
Egypt                                               16                  6                 22               0.12
El Salvador                                          8                   I                10               0.06
Equatorial Guinea                                    3                 -                   3                  *
Estonia                                             -                    I                 I                  *
Ethiopia                                            15                                    15               0.09
Fiji                                                 t                 -                   t                  *
Gabon                                                3                   t                 3                  *
Gambia. The                                          4                  _                  4                  *
Ghana                                               44                   t                44               0.26
Guatemala                                           -                    2                 2
Guinea                                               17                -                  17               0.10
Guinea-Bissau                                        5-                                    5                  *
Guvana                                               I                                     2
Haiti                                                t                  3                  3                  *
Honduras                                            12                  3                 15               0.09
Hungary                                             44                 73                117               0.67
India                                             1.167                113             1.279               7.36
Indonesia                                          686                 40                727               4.18
Iran. Islamic Republic of                           20                 32                 52               0.30
Jamaica                                              10                  t                I1               0.06
Jordan                                              36                  10                47               0.27
Kenya                                               36                  15                5I               0.29
Korea. Republic of                                 160                234                394               2.27
Lao People's Democratic Republic                      I                -                   I                  *
Latvia                                                                   t                 t                  *
Lesotho                                              3                  t                  3                  *
Lithuania                                             I                -                   I
Madagascar                                           16                  1                17               0.10
Malawi                                              52                   1                53               0.31
Malaysia                                            129                35                164               0.94



Cofinancing       75
Percentage'
Local            Foreign         Total           of total
Borrowing countnes                                   procuremenl       procuremert       amount        disbursements'
Maldives                                                    I                 t              I                *
Mali                                                       22                 t             22             0.13
Mauritania                                                  7                 4             11             0.06
Mauritius                                                   I                 1              3                a
Mexico                                                  1.052               80            1,132            6.51
Moldova                                                   -                  _              _
Mongolia                                                  -                   I               I               *
Morocco                                                  243                 4             248              1.43
Mozambique                                                 10                 t             10             0.06
Myanmar                                                    4                  6             10             0.06
Nepal                                                      14                 t             14             0.08
Nicaragua                                                 -                   I              I
Niger                                                      20                 t             21             0.12
Nigeria                                                   83               284             367             2.11
Oman                                                       11                 t              11            0.06
Pakistan                                                  304                10            315              1.81
Panama                                                    -                  25             25             0.14
Papua New Guinea                                            8                 2             10             0.06
Paraguay                                                    2                12             14             0.08
Peru                                                        t                 7              7
Philippines                                               340                 8            347              2.00
Poland                                                     16                25             41             0.24
Romania                                                     t                13             13             0.08
Russia                                                    -                  34             34             0.19
Rwanda                                                      9                 t              9             0.05
Sao Tomd and Principe                                       I               -                 I
Senegal                                                   42                  8             50             0.29
Sierra Leone                                                2                 t              2
Slovak Republic                                           -                   t              t
Slovenia                                                  -                   8              8
Solomon Islands                                                             -                t
Somalia
Sri Lanka                                                  31                 2             33             0.19
St. Kitts and Nevis                                       -                                  t
St. Lucia                                                   t                 I
St. Vincent and the Grenadines                              t                 T
Sudan                                                       4                 T              5
Tanzania                                                   18                 2             20              0.12
Thailand                                                  116               39             155             0.89
Togo                                                        4                 1              4                *
Tonga                                                       t                 t              v
Trinidad and Tobago                                         4                 3              7
Tunisia                                                    75                 3             78              0.45
Uganda                                                     38                 3             41             0.24
Uruguay                                                   40                27              67             0.39
Vanuatu                                                     I                 t               I
Venezuela                                                   3               77              80             0.46
Western Samoa                                               2               -                2
Yemen                                                      17                 t             17             0.10
Yugoslavia. Socialist Federal Republic of'                 12                39             50             0.29
Zaire                                                      12                 8             20             0.12
Zambia                                                      2                17             19             0.11
Zimbabwe                                                    7                6              14             0.08
Total                                                 7,595             2.300          9.8%             56.96
- Zero, f less than $0.5 million, * less than 0.05 percent.
NOTE: Disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded for IBRD and IDA. Details may not
add to totals because of rounding.
a. Refers to the share of all IBRD and IDA payments for fiscal 1993 (excluding disbursements for debt reduction), which
totaled $17,374 million.
b. Figures represent supply from the former Czechoslovakia prior to January 1. 1993.
c. Figures represent supply from SFR Yugoslavia as follows: Croatia. $2.3 million prior to becoming a member; Slovenia,
$29.8 million prior to becoming a member: Bosnia-Herzegovina, $3.0 million: Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, $0.9
million; Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), $14.3 million.



76    World Bank Finances
Table 4-7. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD cumulative                       IDA cumulative
to June 30, 1993   IBRD fiscal 1993    to June 30, 1993  IDA fiscal 1993
Supplying country                   Amount    97       Amount    %        Amount      %      Amount       %
Afghanistan                              2                          *         I         *       -          *
Albania                                  t       *         t        *        -          *
Algeria                                 25                10      0.2         9         *         3      0.1
Angola                                   9                -         *         t         *       -          *
Antigua and Barbuda                      I       *         t        *         I         *         I        *
Argentina                              736     0.8        85       1.2       81       0.3       26       0.9
Australia                              931     1.0        65      0.9       342       1.1       39        1.4
Austria                              1,133     1.3       139      2.0       188       0.6       12       0.4
Bahamas, The                            79     0.1         t                  7         *       -          *
Bahrain                                 64     0.1         5      0.1       118       0.4       77       2.7
Bangladesh                              13       *         2        *        33       0.1         2      0.1
Barbados                                 8       *         I        *         4         *        t         *
Belarus                                  t       *         t        *        -          *                  *
Belgium                              1.390     1.5        71       1.0      859       2.7       62       2.2
Belize                                   I       *         t        *         6         *       -          *
Benin                                    3       *                           I*11 I     *                  *
Bhutan                                                                        I                 - 
Bolivia                                 24       *         3        *         3                   t
Botswana                                 5       *         2        *         5         *         I        *
Brazil                               1.605     1.8       328      4.6       246       0.8       35        1.2
Bulgaria                                 4       *         3        *         I         *I
Burkina Faso                             I       *         t        *         6         *        t         *
Burundi                                  I       *                           I *  10    *        t
Cambodia                                 I       *        -         *         t                 -
Cameroon                                 6       *         2        *        18       0.1         1
Canada                               2.088     2.3       151      2.1       577       1.8       41        1.4
Cape Verde                               t       *        -         *         t         *         t        *
Central African Republic                 2       *        -         *         2                   1
Chad                                     I       *        -         *         I         *
Chile                                  348     0.4        52      0.7        27       0.1         2      0.1
China                                1.115     1.2       186      2.6       733       2.3      125       4.4
Colombia                               205     0.2        59      0.8        13         *        4       0.2
Comoros                                  t       *         t        *        -          *       -*
Congo                                    5       *                            7         *                 *
Costa Rica                              25                 4                 10         *       -          *
Cote d'lvoire                           35                 t                145       0.5       26       0.9
Croatia                                  5                 5      0.1         2         *         2      0.1
Cyprus                                  24               I10      0.2        11         *         I        *
Czechoslovakia'                         25                 8       0.1        3         *         2      0.1
Czech Republic                           9                 9       0.1         I        *         I        *
Denmark                                574     0.6        71       1.0      234       0.7       19       0.7
Djibouti                                 t       *        -         *        22       0.1         5      0.2
Dominica                                 3       *                            I *  1    *        t         *
Dominican Republic                      10       *         5      0.1         5         *        t         *
Ecuador                                114     0.1         9      0.1         I         *        t         *
Egypt                                   47     0.1         5      0.1        23       0.1         1        *
El Salvador                             17       *         I        *         3         *        t         *
Equatorial Guinea                        t       *        -         *         I         *       -          *
Estonia                                  I           *     I        *        -          *                  *
Ethiopia                                 I       *        -         *         3         *                  *



Cofinancing    77
IBRD cumulative                       IDA cumulative
to June 30. 1993    IBRD fiscal 1993    to June 30, 1993  IDA fiscal 1993
Supplying country           Amount    %        Amount      %      Amount      %       Amount   %
Fiji                             t        *       -         *          I        *       -*
Finland                        363      0.4       50      0.7        101      0.3        11      0.4
France                       6,372      7.0     461       6.5      3,144     10.0      282       9.9
Gabon                            14               -                    9        *                 *
Gambia, The                      3        *       -                    t        *                  *
Germany                      10,324    11.4      692      9.8      2.993      9.5       154       5.4
Ghana                            9        *                *          4        *         A
Greece                         175      0.2       15      0.2         57      0.2        9        0.3
Grenada                           I       *       -         *          4        *         A
Guatemala                        16       *        2                  10        *        -
Guinea                           3        *       -                    I        *        -
Guinea-Bissau                    t                -                    2        *                  *
Guyana                           9        *                          -         *         A        *
Haiti                            4                 3                   4        * 
Honduras                        11        *        3                   2        *                  *
Hungary                        195      0.2       72       1.0        21      0.1         1 I
Iceland                          8                 I                   I        *       -*
India                          312      0.3       44      0.6        519       1.7      69       2.4
Indonesia                      155      0.2       29      0.4         44      0.1       I1        0.4
Iran. Islamic Republic of      144      0.2        2                 176      0.6       31        1.1
Iraq                           459      0.5       -                   30      0.1         t        *
Ireland                        120      0.1       29      0.4         64      0.2        9       0.3
Israel                         214      0.2       14      0.2         77      0.2        10      0.4
Italy                        5,122      5.6      255      3.6      1,400      4.5      131       4.6
Jamaica                          1 6               t        *          t        *         t        *
Japan                        13,009    14.3      661      9.3      3.660      11.6      185      6.5
Jordan                          49      0.1       -                  125      0.4        10      0.4
Kenya                           28                 t                 171      0.5        14      0.5
Korea, Republic of            1.053     I.-      210      3.0        549       1.7      24       0.8
Kuwait                         22- 3    0.3        5      0.1        163      0.5        8       0.3
Lao People's Dem. Rep.          -                 -                    t                 -
Latvia                           t                 t        *         _         x                  *
Lebanon                         69      0.1        5      0.1         21      0.1         t
Lesotho                          t        *       -         *          t        -         t
Liberia                         26        *       -         *         19      0.1         t
Libya                           91      0.1       10      0.1          7                 7       0.2
Luxembourg                      69      0.1       13      0.2         30      0.1         1      0.1
Madagascar                       8       *         t        *          I                  I
Malawi                           2        *        t        *         10        *        t
Malaysia                       312      0.3       22      0.3        198      0.6        13      0.5
Maldives                          I       *        t        *          A        *                  *
Mali                             t        *       -         *          5        *                  *
Malta                            t        *        t        *          t        *                  *
Mauritania                       8        *        2        *          7        *        2       0.1
Mauritius                         I       *        t        *         12        *        t         *
Mexico                         487      0.5       78       1.1        92      0.3        2       0.1
Mongolia                         t        *                *          I        *         I        *
Morocco                        159      0.2        4      0.1         47      0.2         1        *
(continuled)



78    World Bank Finances
Table 4-7 (continued)
IBRD cumulative                     IDA cumulative
to June 30, 1993   IBRD fiscal 1993   to June 30. 1993    IDA fiscal 1993
Supplying country                 Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount    %
Mozambique                             4       *        t        *        7        *         t        *
Myanmar                               22      *         4      0.1       12        *        2       0.1
Namibia                                t       *        t        *        I        *         t        *
Nepal                                  I                t        *        2                  t        *
Netherlands                        1,723     1.9      159      2.3      779      2.5       87       3.0
New Zealand                          140    0.2        12      0.2       84      0.3        12      0.4
Nicaragua                              9       *        I        *        6                  t
Niger                                  2                t        *       10        *         t        *
Nigeria                              317    0.4       210      3.0      218      0.7       74       2.6
Norway                               252    0.3        24      0.3      101      0.3        11      0.4
Oman                                  36       *       -         *       14        *         t        *
Pakistan                              97    0.1         3        *      137      0.4        8       0.3
Panama                               362    0.4        22      0.3       27      0.1        3       0.1
Papua New Guinea                       3      *         2        *        t
Paraguay                             112    0.1        11      0.2        3        *         I        *
Peru                                 116    0.1         5      0.1       14        *        2       0.1
Philippines                           67    0.1         4      0.1       70      0.2        4       0.1
Poland                               110    0.1        16      0.2       39      0.1        9       0.3
Portugal                              47    0.1         5      0.1      183      0.6       24       0.8
Qatar                                122    0.1         I        *        9        *         2      0.1
Romania                              240    0.3         9      0.1       61      0.2        4       0.1
Russia                                30       *       30      0.4        4        *        4       0.1
Rwanda                                 3                                  I -  *  1  *       t        8
Sao Tome and Principe                 -        *       -         *        t        *       -
Saudi Arabia                         460    0.5         8      0.1      207      0.7       54       1.9
Senegal                               22       *                 *       59      0.2        8       0.3
Seychelles                            _        *       _         *                 *                  *
Sierra Leone                           4       *       -         *        2        *        t         *
Singapore                            836    0.9        69      1.0      557       1.8      113      3.9
Slovak Republic                       -                -         *        t        *         t        *
Slovenia                               8      *         8      0.1       --
Solomon Islands                        t               -         *       -         *                  *
Somalia                                I       *       -         *                 *       -          *
South Africa                         347    0.4        61      0.9      509       1.6      III      3.9
Spain                              1.011     1.1       70      1.0      194      0.6        13      0.5
Sri Lanka                             12                2                16        *                  *
St. Kitts and Nevis                    t                *                 I        *                 *
St. Lucia                              I       *        I                 3        *         I        *
St. Vincent and the Grenadines         t       *       -         *        4        *         t        *
Sudan                                  5      *         t        *       10        *                  *
Suriname                               I       *                          2 *      *                  *
Swaziland                             18       *        I        *       17      0.1        4       0.1
Sweden                             1.457     1.6      127      1.8      361       1.2      21       0.8
Switzerland                        3,857    4.2       364      5.1      888      2.8       125      4.4
Syrian Arab Republic                  23                I        *       13        *        6       0.2
Tanzania                               6       *        t        *       16      0.1         2      0.1
Thailand                             138    0.2        27      0.4      265      0.8        12      0.4
Togo                                  28       t        t        *       21      0.1         1        *
Tonga                                 -        *       -         *        t        *         t        *
Trinidad and Tobago                   18       *        3        *        4        *         t        *



Disbursements by Source of Supply    79
IBRD cumulative                         IDA cumulative
to June 30, 1993   IBRD fiscal 1993    to June 30. 1993    IDA fiscal 1993
Supplying country         Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount       C/
Tunisia                        85      0.1         1         *        29       0.1         2       0.1
Turkey                        178      0.2        33       0.5        33       0.1         I         *
Uganda                          3        *         I         *         3         *        2        0.1
Ukraine                         I        *         I         *        _          *                   *
United Arab Emirates         535       0.6       20        0.3       310       1.0       15        0.5
United Kingdomb             6.857      7.5      437        6.2     4,359      13.9      290       10.2
United States              18,629     20.5     1,149      16.2     3,390      10.8      244        8.5
Uruguay                       77       0.1       23        0.3         5         *        4        0.1
Vanuatu                         5        *        -          *         t         *         t         *
Venezuela                    447       0.5        62       0.9       130       0.4        15       0.5
Viet Nam                       41        *         9       0.1        23       0.1         7       0.2
Western Samoa                   2        *       _           *         t         *                   *
Yemen                           t        *       -           *       206       0.7        5        0.2
Yugoslavia, SFR of'          849       0.9        32       0.5       165       0.5        7        0.2
Zaire                           6        *        -          *        30       0.1         8       0.3
Zambia                         29        *         t         *       102       0.3        17       0.6
Zimbabwe                       34        *         t         *        63       0.2         6       0.2
-Other                       782       0.9        88       1.2       130       0.4       41        1.4
Total                      90,972    100.0    7,086      100.0    31,465    100.0    2,860       100.0
- Zero.  less than $0.5 million, * less than 0.05 percent.
NOTE: Disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded for IBRD and IDA. Details may not
add to totals because of rounding.
a. Figures represent supply from the former Czechoslovakia prior to January 1. 1993.
b. United Kingdom includes Hong Kong.
c. Figures represent supply from SFR Yugoslavia in 1993 for IBRD/IDA as follows: Croatia, $2.3 million prior to becoming
a member: Slovenia. $18.2 million prior to becoming a member; Bosnia-Herzegovina. $3.0 million; Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, $0.9 million: Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). $14.3 million.
large transactions, and a comparative review          privatization,  environment, and  women-in-
of initial privatization progress in the republics    development activities. In fiscal year 1993,
of the former Soviet Union.                           Bank commitments under the PHRD fund to-
In addition to cofinancing. the donor com-    taled $130 million. representing an increase of
munity provided substantial support through-    23 percent over fiscal 1992.
out the year to the Bank through trust funds
and other arrangements that, directly or indi-    Disbursements by Source of Supply
rectlv, benefit recipient countries. To date,            Projects financed by the World Bank require
consultant trust funds have been established          procurement from foreign and local sources to
with twenty-five donors. In fiscal 1993, under    achieve project goals. Disbursements are made
the consultant trust-fund program, including          primarily to cover specific costs for foreign
special arrangements to support environmental    procurement and some local expenditures.
work and activities in Central and Eastern              The procurement rules and procedures to be
Europe. $41 million was allocated in support of    followed in the execution of each project de-
Bank operations, an increase of 39 percent    pend on individual circumstances. Three con-
over the previous year's amount. Environment    siderations generally guide the Bank's require-
was the sector most supported. followed by            ments: the need for economy and efficiency in
agriculture. In terms of activities. project prep-    the execution of the project: the Bank's inter-
aration and economic and sector work contin-    est, as a cooperative institution, in giving all
ued to receive the most allocations. The policy       eligible bidders from developing countries and
and  human-resources  development (PHRD)    developed countries an opportunity to com-
fund financed by Japan continued to provide           pete in providing goods and works financed by
support for project preparation. with priority    the Bank; and the Bank's interest, as a devel-
given  to  private-sector  development  and           opment institution, in encouraging the devel-



80     World Bank Finances
Table 4-8. IBRD and IDA Payments to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement,
by Description of Goods, Fiscal 1993
lamounts in millions of US dollars)
All other          Total
Equipment        Civil works       Consultants         goods          disbursements
Supplying country           Amount   c/c    Amount    %.    Amount    %           Amount    %.    Amount        %
Albania                        -         *_                                  *        t        *        t        *
Algeria                         I                                     -  *   *       12      0.3       13      0.1
Antigua and Barbuda             t        *       _         *      _          *        I        *        I        *
Argentina                      15      0.4       4       0.8       t         *       92      2.0      112      1.1
Australia                      34      0.8        t        *      10       1.5      60       1.3      104      1.0
Austria                        67      1.7        2      0.4       4       0.7       77      1.7      151      1.5
Bahamas, The                   -         *         *              -          *        t        *        t        *
Bahrain                         4      0.1      -          *       t         *      77       1.7      81       0.8
Bangladesh                      t                 I      0.1       t         *        3      0.1        4        *
Barbados                       -                                   t         *        I        *        I        *
Belarus                       -*                                             *        t                 t        *
Belgium                        53      1.3       4       0.8      15       2.3      61       1.3      134      1.3
Belize                         -*                                            *        t        *        t        *
Benin                           t        *                                           t        *        t        *
Bolivia                         2      0.1      -                  t                  I        *        4        *
Botswana                        t        *      _            *               *        3      0.1        3        *
Brazil                        139      3.4       9       1.6       5       0.7     210       4.5     363       3.7
Bulgaria                        t        *       -         *                          3      0.1        4        *
Burkina Faso                   -         *       -                _                            *        +        *
Burundi                         t        *        t        *       t         *        +        *                *
Cameroon                        t        *        I      0.1       I       0.1        t        *        2
Canada                         57      1.4       4       0.7      56       8.3       74      1.6      192      1.9
Cape Verde                     -                           *       t         *      -          *        t        *
Central African
Republic                     t         *       I       0.1       t         *      -                   I        *
Chad                            t                 t        *      -          *        t        *        t        *
Chile                           7      0.2        t                I       0.2       46      1.0       55      0.6
China                         112      2.8      121     20.7       1       0.1       77      1.7     311       3.1
Colombia                        4      0.1        3      0.6       1       0.1       55      1.2       63      0.6
Comoros                        -         *       -         *      -          *        t        *        t        *
Congo                           t        *       -                -                  -         *        t        *
Costa Rica                      t        *       -         *       2       0.2        2        *        4        *
Cote dIlvoire                   t        *        5      0.9       1       0.2       20      0.4       27      0.3
Croatia                         4      0.1        2      0.3      -                   I        *        7      0.1
Cyprus                          I        *       2       0.3       t       0.1        8      0.2       11      0.1
Czechoslovakia'                 7      0.2      -          *       t         *        3      0.1       10      0.1
Czech Republic                  I               -          *       t         *        9      0.2       10      0.1
Denmark                        54      1.3       7       1.2      14       2.1       15      0.3       90      0.9
Djibouti                        t        *       -         *      -          *        5      0.1        5        *
Dominica                       -                  t        *      -          *        t        *        t        *
Dominican Republic              3      0.1        I      0.2                 *        t        *        5      0.1
Ecuador                                           I *  1  0.2      +         *        8     0.2         9      0.1
Egypt                           I        *       +         *       1       0.2       4       0.1        6      0.1
El Salvador                     t        *      -                                              *        I        *
Estonia                                  *      -          *      -          *        I        *        I        *
Ethiopia                                 *      -          *       t       0.1      -         *         t        *
Finland                        31      0.8        t        *       I       0.1      29       0.6      61       0.6
France                        360      8.9      93      15.8      92      13.7      198      4.3     743       7.5
Gabon                           t        *       -         *      -          *        t        *        t
Germany                       414     10.2      62      10.5      49       7.3      322      7.0      846      8.5



Disbursements by Source of Supply         81
All other           Total
Equipment        Civil works       Consultants          goods         disbursements
Supplying country           Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    'q      Amount    c       Amount      %
Ghana                                    *      -          *       t                  t        *        t        *
Greece                          2        *       4       0.7       t         *       17      0.4       24      0.2
Grenada                        -         *       t       0.1      -          *        t        *        t        *
Guatemala                      -         *      -          *       t         *        2        *        2        *
Guyana                         -         *      -          *      -          *        +        *        t        *
Haiti                           3      0.1      -          *       t         *       _         *        3        *
Honduras                       -         *                                            3      0.1        3
Hungary                         5      0.1       4       0.7       t                 63      1.4       73      0.7
Iceland                        -         *      -          *                 *        t        a        t        *
India                          68      1.7       6       1.0       9       1.3       30      0.7      113      1.1
Indonesia                      17      0.4      10       1.7       2       0.3       11      0.2       40      0.4
Iran, Islamic
Republic of                  t         *       I       0.2     -                  31      0.7       32       0.3
Iraq                            t               -          *      -          *        t                 t        *
Ireland                         4      0.1       1       0.2       7       1.1       25      0.6       38      0.4
Israel                          8      0.2       t         *       6       0.9       10      0.2       24      0.2
Italy                         193      4.8      75      12.8       4       0.6      114      2.5      386      3.9
Jamaica                        -         *      -          a      -          *        t                 t        *
Japan                         618     15.2      15       2.5      29       4.2      185      4.0      846      8.5
Jordan                         -         *      -          *       t         *       10      0.2       10      0.1
Kenya                           8      0.2       t         *       I       0.1        6      0.1       15      0.2
Korea, Republic of            190      4.7       t       0.1       4       0.6       39      0.9      234      2.4
Kuwait                         -         *                         t         *       12      0.3       13      0.1
Latvia                         -*                                            *        t        *        I
Lebanon                        -         *       3       0.6       1       0.2        t        *        5        *
Lesotho                        -         *      -          *       t         *       _         *
Liberia                        -         *                 *                 *                 *        t
Libya                          -*                                            *       17      0.4       17      0.2
Luxembourg                     11      0.3      -                  I       0.1        2        *       14      0.1
Madagascar                      t        *       t         *       t       0.1        t        *        I        *
Malawi                          t        *       t         a       t         *        t                 I        *
Malaysia                        2      0.1       7       1.2       t         *       25      0.6       35      0.4
Maldives                       -                          *      -          *       -         *        t        *
Mali                            t                                  t                  t                 t        *
Malta                                    *      -          *                          t        *        t        *
Mauritania                      t        *              0.1       t         *        4      0.1        4        *
Mauritius                       t        *      -          *       t       0.1        t                 I        *
Mexico                         21      0.5      13       2.2       t         *       46      1.0       80      0.8
Mongolia                        I        *      -          *       t         *        t                 1        *
Morocco                         t               __         t       t         *        4      0.1        4        *
Mozambique                     -         *      -          *      -          *                *        t        *
Myanmar                         t        *      _          *      -          *        6      0.1        6      0.1
Namibia                        -         *       t         *      _          *                *        t        *
Nepal                           e        *                                   *        t        *        T        *
Netherlands                    94      2.3      12       2.0      22       3.2      118      2.6      246      2.5
New Zealand                     I        *       2       0.3       4       0.6       17      0.4       24      0.2
Nicaragua                       ,        *                         t                  I        *        I        *
Niger                           ,        *      -          *       t         *        t        *        t        *
Nigeria                                  *                         3       0.4      282      6.1      284      2.9
Norway                          9      0.2       t                11       1.6       15      0.3       35      0.4
(continited)



82     World Bank Finances
Table 4-8  (continued)
All other          Total
Equipnient       Civil works      Consultants         goods          disbursements
Supplying country           Amounl    0      Amount            Amount    GI    Amount    0        Amount    %
Oman                                    a **                                *      -         *         t
Pakistan                        I       *                         t       0.1       9      0.2        10     0.1
Panama                         9      (1.2     -                  '        *      16      0.3        25     0.3
Papua New Guinea              -         *      -         *                                                     *
Paraguay                        I       *       I      0.1                  *       1      0.2        12     0.1
Peru                           t                                          0.1       6      01          7     0.1
Philippines                   -                 2      0.4        4       0.6       1                  8     0.1
Poland                         9      0.2       t      0.1        t                I 5     0.3        25     0.3
Portugal                       8      0.2       1      0.1       12       1.9       9      0.2        29     0.3
Qatar                         -                 2      0.4       -                  I        *         3
Romania                        7      0.2       1      0.2        t                 4      0.1        13     0.1
Russia                         4      0.1      -                  t                30      0.7        34     0.3
Rwanda                        -                         -                                              t
Saudi Arabia                   2                                 -                 60       1.3       62     0.6
Senegal                        2 I              I       0(.1      t         a       6      0.1         8      0.1
Sierra Leone                  -                                                        -  -  *         t       *
Singapore                     86      2.1       I      0.1        2       0.3      92       2.0      181      1.8
Slovak Republic                                -                                   -         *         t       *
Slovenia                       3      0.1       5      0.8                      t a          *         8      0.1
South Africa                  19      0.5       t        *        9       1.4     143       3.1      172      1.7
Spain                         36      0.9       6       1.1        1      0.2      39      0.8        83      0.8
Sri Lanka                      t                t                 t         *       2                   
St. Kitts and Nevis           -         *       t        *       -          *       t        n         t
St. Lucia                     -                 I      0.2       -          *       t                  I
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines                  -                                                                       t        *
Sudan                         -         a       t        a                          t        *         t       *
Swaziland                               *                *        t         a       4      0.1         5
Sweden                        83      2.0       1      0.1        5       0.7      60       1.3      148      1.5
Switzerland                  135      3.3      13       2.2      14       2.1     328      7.1      489      4.9
Syrian Arab Republic           3      ().1     -         *                  *       4      0.1         7      0.1
Tanzania                       t        *      _I a                         *       2        *
Thailand                       9      0.2                          I I    0.1      29      0.6        39      0.4
Togo                           t        *          .                        a t
Tonga                         _             -             a *     _         a      -         *         t
Trinidad and Tobago            t        *      -                                    I -  a  3  0.1     3        a
Tunisia                        t        a      -                   I      0.1       2         a        3        *
Turkey                         14     0.3       4       0.7      -          *      16       0.3       33      0.3
LUganda                         I       *       t                 t         *       I        *         3       a
Ukraine                       -                          a *      _         *       I                  I
United Arab Emirates           4      0.1       2      0.3        t                29      0.6        34     0.4
United Kingdomh              357      8.8      13      2.2       91      13.5    267       5.8      727      7.3
United States                582     14.3      24      4.1      108      16.1     678      14.6    1.393     14.0
Uruguay                       14      0.3       t        a        t        *       13      0.3        27     0.3
Vanuatu                       -                 t        *       -                           *         t
Venezuela                      5      0.1      -         *               0.1      72       1.6       77     0.8
Viet Nam                       t        a       2      0.4       -          a      14      0.3        16     0.2
Yemen                          5      0.1      -                                                       5 -  a  5  *  5
Yugoslavia. SFR of'           14      0.3      24      4.1        T                                   39     0.4
Zaire                          t        *      _         a       -                  8      0.2         8     0.1
Zambia                         t t   a                   *        t                16      0.4        17      0.2
Zimbabwe                        I              -          a       t         *       5       0.1        6      0.1



Disbursements by Source of Supply    83
All other          Total
Equipment       Civil works      Consultants         goods        disbursements
Supplying Country         Amount   %       Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %
-Other                       16      0.4      3       0.5     59       8.8      51      1.1      129      1.3
Total                      4,061   100.0    585    100.0    672    100.0   4,628    100.0   9,946    100.0
- Zero, t less than $0.5 million, * less than 0.05 percent.
NOTE: Disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded for IBRD and IDA.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Figures represent supply from the former Czechoslovakia prior to January 1, 1993.
b. United Kingdom includes Hong Kong.
c. Figures represent supply from SFR Y'ugoslavia as follows: Croatia. $2.3 million prior to becoming a member: Slovenia.
$18.2 million prior to becoming a member: Bosnia-Herzegovina, $3.0 million: Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
$0.9 million: Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegrol. $14.3 million.
Table 4-9. IBRD and IDA Foreign Disbursements, by Description of Goods,
for Investment Lending, Fiscal 1991-93
1991                         1992                          1993
Item                   OECD   Non-OECD   Total  OECD   Non-OECD   Total  OECD   Non-OECD   Total
millions of US dollars
Invest,nent lending
Agricultural inputs       44        35         79       82       37         120     107         52        158
Civil works              266       132        398     339        154        493     340        243        583
Consultants              496        52        548     508        64         573     539        108        648
Equipment              2,773       416      3,188   2.535       390       2,925   2,686        534      3.220
Raw materialsa            72        62         134     48        29          77      96         64        159
All other goods          151        84        236      150       58         208     319        147       466
Total                  3,801       781      4,583   3.662       733       4.394   4,085      1.149      5,234
Per(enlb
Agricultural inputs       56        44           2      68       31           3      68         33          3
Civil works               67        33          9       69       31          11      58         42         11
Consultants               91         9          12      89        11         13      83         17         12
Equipment                 87        13         70      87         13         67      83         17         62
Raw materialsa            54        46          3      62        38           2      60         40          3
All other goods           64        36          5      72        28           5      68         32          9
Total                     83        17         100      83        17        100      78         22        100
NOTE: Disbursements for debt reduction and net advance disbursements are excluded. Disbursements for structural-
adjustment loans, sector-adjustment loans and hybrids (loans that support policv and institutional reforms in a specific sector
by financing both a policy component disbursed against imports and an investment component) are also excluded. OECD
amounts are based on current OECD membership.
a. Raw materials include chemicals and commodities.
b. All of the percentages are based on the dollar amounts shown under the total disbursements section. These percentages
show both the breakdown between OECD and non-OECD countries for individual goods categories and the share of each
goods category compared with total disbursements.
opment of local contractors and manufacturers             of fiscal 1993. 58 percent of IBRD  and IDA
in borrowing countries.                                   disbursements covered goods and services pro-
In most cases, international competitive bid-          vided directly by foreign suppliers located out-
ding is the most effective method of procure-             side the borrowing country. While most foreign
ment. The Bank prescribes conditions under                procurement comes from  suppliers in devel-
which preferences may be given to domestic or             oped member countries, suppliers from  devel-
regional manufacturers and, where appropri-               oping countries have increasingly been effective
ate, to domestic contractors. Through the end             in winning contract awards. Through the end of



84   World Bank Finances
fiscal 1988, 14 percent of foreign procurement   tries and  disbursements made for goods.
was awarded to developing-country suppliers.   works. and services procured from them by
During fiscal 1993, developing-country suppli-   other Bank borrowers for projects funded by
ers' share was 31 percent of total foreign dis-   the Bank.
bursements.                                      Table 4-7 shows the amounts disbursed from
Table 4-4 shows consolidated foreign and    the IBRD and IDA separately for foreign pro-
local disbursements for the IBRD and IDA    curement of goods and services from member
through the end of fiscal 1988 and for each of   countries in fiscal year 1993 and cumulatively
the next five fiscal years to the end of fiscal   through fiscal 1993.
1993. Advance disbursements consist of pay-      Table 4-8 shows the proportion of foreign
ments made into special accounts of borrow-    disbursements from  the IBRD and IDA for
ers. from  which funds are paid to specific   specific categories of goods and services pro-
suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Be-    vided by member countries in fiscal 1993.
cause balances in these accounts cannot be       Table 4-9 provides a summary listing of the
attributed to any specific supplying country    amounts paid to OECD and non-OECD coun-
until expenditures have been reported to the    try suppliers in each fiscal year from  1991 to
Bank. these are shown as a separate category    1993 under investment projects. Amounts dis-
in the table.                                  bursed are compared with respect to signifi-
Table 4-5 provides details of foreign dis-   cant categories of goods procured from foreign
bursements by OECD and non-OECD coun-    suppliers. The extent to which OECD  and
tries for the IBRD and IDA separately. Table    non-OECD countries participated in supplying
4-6 shows disbursements made in fiscal 1993   these major categories of goods in each of the
by the IBRD and IDA for local and foreign    past three fiscal years is also compared.
procurement from all active borrowing coun-



85
Section Five
World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA and ICSID
Operations Evaluation                        tion reports and also examine topics of special
interest so as to provide inputs for the OED's
Operations evaluation in the Bank provides    evaluation-studies program. The OED struc-
a systematic, comprehensive, and independent   tures its audit work program (with regard to
assessment of Bank operations and activities.   choice of projects, topics to be analyzed, and
Its principal goals are to account for the out-   analytical approaches to be used) so as to
come of Bank-supported projects and pro-    provide inputs for comparative studies.
grams and to use the lessons from that experi-  The OED currently audits all adjustment
ence to improve the design and conduct of   lending operations and at least 40 percent of
future operations.                           the Bank's investment operations. The OED
The director general, operations evaluation    received 277 completion reports in fiscal 1993,
(DGO). has overall responsibility for evalua-   and audited 137, of which 106 were for invest-
tion. He reports directly to the Bank's execu-   ment projects and 31 for adjustment opera-
tive board, with an administrative link to the   tions. The cumulative total of Bank operations
president, and is supported by the Operations    subjected to ex post evaluation reached 3.324
Evaluation Department (OED). The indepen-   at the end of the fiscal year.
dence of evaluation in the Bank encourages     In project-impact reports, the OED, assisted
evaluation staff to report candidly and allows    by local agencies in borrower countries, takes
them access to all relevant information and to    a second look at projects five to eight years
select any topic for analysis.               after the close of disbursements. These re-
The Joint Audit Committee (JAC) of the    ports, which permit a second assessment of
executive board oversees the work of the    project performance, focus on evaluating proj-
OED. In fiscal 1993. the findings and recom-   ect impact. including intended and unintended
mendations of the JAC were reviewed by the    effects. They are a powerful tool for assessing
full board, as was the fiscal 1992 annual report   social and environmental impacts and eco-
of the DGO. the annual review of evaluation    nomic worth and offer valuable insights into
results for 1991, and the evaluation work pro-   what makes development sustainable. Since
gram for fiscal 1994.                        the program began in the late 1970s, just over
Evaluation work program. The Bank's eval-   sixtv impact evaluations have been completed.
uation work program includes completion re-   During the past year, the OED began to ex-
ports by operational staff: performance-audit   pand the progam: Reports were prepared on
reports and impact-evaluation reports on indi-   four transmigration and two irrigation projects.
vidual operations by OED; and evaluation    Ongoing work covered the development ef-
studies by the OED, including country and    fects of projects in agricultural-technology de-
sector-lending studies and reviews of Bank    velopment, drainage, water management. fer-
policies and processes.                      tilizer production, and feeder roads.
Completion reports are prepared by the       Evaluation studies are designed to examine
Bank's operational staff and borrower staff on    particular programs, policies, or issues in a
all lending operations when the Bank com-   context broader than individual lending opera-
pletes its disbursements. These reports allow    tions. To carry out its mandate, the OED must
staff to discern and internalize the lessons of   evaluate the Bank's policies and their appro-
experience specific to the country and sector in   priateness: procedures and their integrity; pro-
which they work. The OED reviews all com-   cesses and their adherence to established
pletion reports to assess their quality, record   rules: and effectiveness in promoting lasting
data, and facilitate the transfer of experience to   development in borrower countries. The OED
new operations. The reports are sent to the    designs its studies program to investigate issues
board with an evaluative note from the DGO.    revealed by its audit work and to respond to
The OED's performance audits validate and    current concerns of the Bank's executive board.
augment the information provided in comple-    management, and staff. It chooses topics in



86   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
which its independence, institutional memory, or   tively review proposals for new projects and
time perspective give it a comparative advan-   evaluate the processes the Bank uses to review
tage.                                         the progress of the portfolio under implemen-
In fiscal 1993. the OED sent seven studies   tation.
to the executive board. Topics included the     Support Ar evaluation in horrower couintries.
environmental, economic, and social impact   As their public budgets have become more
of resettlement resulting from  Bank energy    limited, a growing number of the Bank's bor-
and agriculture projects: the management of   rowing members have sought to improve the
renewable resources in Bolivia: rural finance:   allocation of these resources by strengthening
development of industrial technology: and    the accountability and transparency of deci-
plantation crops. Two studies on Africa eval-   sions on public expenditure. To address this
uated experience with structural adjustment    concern, many have requested assistance from
and the Bank's support for human resources.   the Bank in establishing or strengthening eval-
Other topics of special concern. particularly    uation. The Bank began an effort in fiscal 1993,
poverty reduction, women in development,    with the support of the OED, to help borrowers
and issues in privatization, continued to be    enhance their evaluation capabilities in the con-
addressed in various studies across sectors and    text of public-sector management projects and
regions.                                      programs.
Topics of ongoing studies included the        The OED's support begins after a country
Bank's contributions to development in Mex-    makes a commitment to develop its evaluation
ico. transmigration in Indonesia, industrial re-   function. During fiscal 1993 the program was
structuring in East Africa. urban development,   active in Brazil, China, and Venezuela. The
telecommunications, and rural electrification    OED also attended to requests for advice on
in Asia.                                      evaluation-capacity development from Colom-
Dissemination of findings. The Bank's op-   bia, Indonesia, Mexico. and Zimbabwe and
erational guidelines require staff to seek out   provided support to development institutions
evaluation findings and apply them  in new    including the Caribbean Development Bank
operations. The OED presented the results of   and the Andean Development Corporation.
its audits and studies at seminars within and    Activities included designing diagnostic stud-
outside the Bank, including some organized by   ies on evaluation capacity, organizing training
borrower countries.                           and workshops, organizing the participation of
Studies published in fiscal 1993 were: Eval-   country staff in the OED's evaluation mis-
uiationr Results for 1991 (March 1993): New    sions, promoting borrower participation in the
Lessons from Old Projects: The Workings of   Bank's evaluation processes, and organizing
Ruiral Development in Northeast Brazil (June    studv visits to the Bank by staff from borrower
1993): and World Banik Approaches to the    countries.
Environment in Brazil (June 1993).              Other activities. The OED participated as
The OED  began distributing English and    an observer in meetings of the Expert Group of
French editions of its Precis series, summariz-   the Development Assistance Committee of the
ing the findings of major audits and studies, to    Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
readers outside the Bank.                     Development. Evaluation staff participated in
The Bank's effectiveness. Concerns raised    training activities, launched research in evalu-
by the OED about the performance of the    ation methods, and attended workshops and
Bank's portfolio were taken up by the Task    seminars with evaluators from other interna-
Force on Portfolio Management. As part of its   tional organizations and donor countries. They
response to the findings of the task force, the    continued to participate as "resource persons"
Bank agreed to expand and diversify the role of   in seminars of the Economic Development
independent evaluation, both to provide ac-   Institute.
countability for the use of loan resources and
to bring lessons of experience to bear on    Internal Auditing
policies and programs. Thus, the OED will       The Internal Auditing Department (IAD)
initiate country-assistance evaluations, build   acts as an independent appraiser that reviews
up its program  of impact evaluations, and    and evaluates Bank operations and activities.
enhance feedback and dissemination.'          It is headed by an auditor general who reports
To reinforce the actions the Bank is taking to   functionally to the president of the Bank and,
strengthen portfolio management and the qual-   since December 1991, administratively to the
ity of new operations. the OED is collaborating    vice president and controller.
with the Bank's central vice presidencies on
the design of better methods for appraising
projects and rating their progress. It will selec-  For details. see page 63.



Economic Development Institute   87
In response to requests from Bank manage-    audits focusing on the efficiency, effective-
ment during the year, the IAD conducted a    ness. and control of critical applications.
number of special reviews, including reviews
of the Paris office, the main complex rehabili-    Economic Development Institute
tation. and a number of field offices. These       The strategic objective of the Economic
reviews were in addition to the regular work    Development Institute (EDI) for fiscal 1993
program, which, while covering all aspects of    continued to be the mobilization of the knowl-
the Bank's administration, continued to em-    edge and  experience  accumulated  in the
phasize the Bank's operations and focused on    World Bank and elsewhere for the purpose of
traditional topics such as the procurement of    strengthening development decisionmaking in
goods, services, and consultants: the disburse-   the Bank's member countries. The EDI seeks
ment process; and evaluation of procedures    to attain this goal through its training activities,
used to ensure proper accountability of bor-   through its programs of institution building,
rowers during project implementation.            and through its publications program.
A review of the Global Environment Facility      During the past year, 152 training activities
was completed, and new, comprehensive au-    were carried out (see Table 5-1). Most were
dits were begun on loan processing in the East    held outside Washington, D.C. and most took
Asia and Pacific and Africa regions. Bankwide    place in collaboration with local partner insti-
audits on internal controls and time recording    tutions. Programs in the republics of the for-
were also initiated. The department's work    mer Soviet Union (FSU), in South Africa.
program of regular audits of the Bank's finan-    sub-Saharan Africa. Viet Nam, and in the
cial and accounting systems and procedures    Middle East and North Africa region were
was closely coordinated with reviews under-    particularly noteworthy.
taken by the Bank's external auditors to avoid     In responding to the heavy demand for train-
duplication of effort and maximize the audit   ing in the FSU, the EDI focused its activities
coverage.                                        on training trainers in enterprise management
In order to position itself for an expanded    and banking and on training senior officials
program of comprehensive audits that look at   involved in privatization, restructuring enter-
the efficiency and effectiveness of Bank oper-    prises for privatization, and the management of
ations, the IAD added a significant contingent    commercial banks. A total of about forty train-
of Bank staff with operational experience, in-   ing activities took place in the republics of the
cluding two division chiefs who were ap-    FSU. In a joint venture with Moscow State
pointed as lAD's group-audit managers.           University. a training center was established at
The Bank relies on information technology    that institution: other training centers are cur-
to support its business functions. In recogni-   rently  being  planned  for Uzbekistan  and
tion of this reliance, the department conducted    Ukraine.
a series of technical audits addressing manage-    In the past, state investment projects in the
ment. security, and control issues pertaining to    FSU  were not commonly subjected to eco-
the three principal computing environments in    nomic feasibility studies nor were they com-
the Bank. The IAD also undertook computer-    pleted on time within their prescribed budgets.
application reviews and system-development    In 1992, however. the Russian government
Table 5-1. EDI Activities by Sector and Region, Fiscal 1993
Latin
America
Europe      and      Middle East
and        the         and
Sector                       Africa Asia Central Asia  Caribbean   North Africa  Nonregional Total
Agriculture and environment     6    4        1           1          3           2        17
Development management        10    2         9          3           4           3        31
Finance and private-sector
development                   4    3       20           1          3            6       37
Human resources                 7    7        3          5           2          -         24
Infrastructure and urban
development                   4    2        3          6            2          -        17
National economic management    7    7        7          3            1           1       26
Total                      38   25       43          19          15          12      152



88   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
declared that all federal investment programs    lating Tanzania's parastatal-sector reform and
would be organized according to the formal   privatization programs. to examine the issues
methodologies and technologies of project   surrounding reform and privatization. and to
management. The need for project manage-   promote the involvement of relevant govern-
ment in the next decade is enormous: In Russia    ment officials and chief executive officers in
alone, it is believed that more than 30,000 large   the design and implementation of the program.
civil works and projects will be implemented    The seminar's trainers set out to create an
and considerably more than 50,000 people will   atmosphere to address issues that have hin-
require some project-management training by    dered implementation of the privatization pro-
the year 2000. In late 1992. the Moscow Insti-   cess in the recent past. There was special
tute for Civil Engineering approached the EDI    emphasis on encouraging the 160 participants
for assistance in devising a program to develop    (who included cabinet ministers, principal sec-
capabilities for training in project management.   retaries, parliamentarians, and representatives
Funded in part by an Institutional Develop-   from the public and private sectors) to take
ment Fund grant of $500,000. the EDI is work-   stock of the problematic issues and face the
ing with ten Russian trainers to develop train-    challenge of finding the appropriate solutions.
ing materials, devise appropriate curricula,    The seminar was considered to be success-
train course assistants on computer software.   ful, even historic, since it was the first time in
and help teach subjects such as economic    a decade that such high-level participants from
analysis of projects, procurement, and general   the government and other segments of society
management. In collaboration with the insti-   had met to discuss issues of crucial importance
tute. the EDI also plans to help establish a    to Tanzania.
project-management center in Moscow  de-        In collaboration with the government of Viet
voted to management training and research.    Nam. the EDI has been carrying out a United
To help in South Africa's transition from the    Nations Development Programme project that
system of apartheid, the EDI is engaged in a    supports that country's efforts to transform its
training program to prepare those who will be    economy from one that was command driven
entering government service to better perform    to one that is market oriented. The specific
the functions required of their new responsibil-   objectives of the project were to improve the
ities. The EDI's training program  in South    government's economic-management capabil-
Africa has two major objectives. The first,   ity in implementing its economic-reform pro-
based on the Bank's expertise. experience. and    gram; assist the government in incorporating
comparative advantage, is to contribute to the    elements of a market-based economic system
design and elaboration of sound, appropriate.   and develop instruments for effectively man-
macroeconomic  development programs by    aging the reform  process: improve training
training senior policymakers. The second is to   institutions' abilities to train government offi-
contribute to the design and delivery of appro-    cials: and help develop a legal environment
priate, equitable, and efficient urban services    conducive to a market-oriented economy. The
by training future local government officials   project, which concluded in June 1993 after
and nongovernmental organization (NGO) per-   being extended for six months, was responsi-
sonnel. Many of the new managers and policy-    ble for studv visits, short-term  in-country
makers have not been exposed to up-to-date   training courses, long-term overseas training
macroeconomic and public-policy analysis and    courses, a senior policy seminar on the econ-
management concepts and practices. Neither   omy of Viet Nam, and compilation. transla-
have many of them had the chance to learn   tion, and publication of training materials. Ap-
from comparative experience in other coun-   proximately 500 senior government officials,
tries. Through a tailored program  of short   policymakers, and trainers were exposed to
courses and seminars, designed and conducted    the new concepts and experiences of market
in close partnership with groups of universities    economics.
and local training institutions, the EDI expects  The EDI continued to emphasize its activi-
to strengthen the knowledge base of these   ties in the countries of the Middle East and
people. thereby leading to effective and effi-   North Africa region during the year. Sixteen
cient policy formulation and decisionmaking in   training and institutional-assistance activities
a situation of difficult political and economic    were completed. Areas covered included pub-
choices and tradeoffs.                        lic-sector management. environmental assess-
To facilitate the process of privatization. the    ments. higher education, and management of
Tanzania Investment Bank and the EDI con-   water resources. In partnership with the Amer-
vened an innovative seminar in Dar es Salaam    ican University of Beirut, a training program
in October 1992. The seminar's basic objec-   for Lebanon that deals with civil-service issues
tives were to speed up the process of formu-    was launched. It has three main components:



Economic Development Institute   89
direct training. institutional development. and  The EDI prepares and publishes training
publication of training materials.            materials on policv analysis and reform. While
The EDI's institution-building program  is   the emphasis is on short. action-oriented case
closely integrated with the design and delivery    studies, the institute has also published collec-
of its training activities. It is through the joint   tions of analytical papers and books. Sixty-five
preparation and implementation of its training    new titles were published in fiscal 1993. As a
activities with almost 100 partner training in-   result of increased efforts to promote and
stitutions that EDI helps to strengthen the local   disseminate its materials in the developing
training capacity of these institutions.      world, about 20,000 items were sent out in
In Latin America. for example, the EDI is   response to 4.000 requests.
involved in three institution-building programs  Although the EDI's highest priority is its
that share the objective of strengthening the   training program in Africa, the institute has
abilities of local institutions to improve living    begun to address the shortage of materials
conditions in low-income settlements. During    specifically designed to meet the needs of the
fiscal 1993, technical assistance and training    growing program in Central and Eastern Eu-
were provided to the Regional Training System    rope and the FSU. Twelve Russian titles are
for Local Urban Development and Municipal   now in the EDI's catalog of published materi-
Improvement in Latin America (SACDEL).   als. and translation of many more titles is
the regional municipal governance-development    under way.
program: assistance was provided to FICONG      While emphasis continues to be on printed
(Institutional Strengthening and Training of   materials, experimentation has begun with
NGOs in Latin America), a regional institution    multimedia teaching materials and computer-
responsible for training and strengthening non-   based case studies. During the past year, im-
governmental organizations that work on urban-    plementation was begun of a project to publish
poverty issues; and road and transport experts    EDI's entire collection of materials on CD-
were trained in the maintenance of urban infra-   ROM.
structure  in  collaboration  with  PROVIAL     The World Bank Graduate Scholarship Pro-
(Road-maintenance Program).                   gram, funded by the Japanese government,
The EDI also helps organize national and    supports graduate study leading to a higher
regional workshops in cooperation with gov-    degree in a development-related social sci-
ernments and NGOs to improve development   ence. In fiscal 1993, support was provided
programs. Work on cooperative arrangements   to  106 graduate  scholars. Similarly, the
in the areas of health. resettlement, and water   McNamara Fellowship Program awards some
were begun during fiscal 1993. The EDI also   ten fellowships a year to support innovative
supports a number of NGO-led multiyear   research in areas of economic development.
institutional-development programs that are    The McNamara fellowships are for nondegree
principally involved in urban-poverty issues in   postgraduate study, which need not be at a
Latin America. strategic planning in franco-    university. The EDI also worked with Colum-
phone Africa, women entrepreneurs. and pov-   bia University (New York) to design a new
erty reduction in Africa. These programs are    master's degree program in development eco-
cofinanced in large part by the governments of   nomics and management. The degree com-
Japan and the Netherlands.                    bines twelve months of study at Columbia
The Joint Vienna Institute (JVI), set up to   and a six-month internship at the World Bank
provide training to officials from Central and    or the International Monetary Fund. During
Eastern Europe, as well as from the republics   the past year. twenty-five scholarships were
of the FSU. opened its door for business in   awarded to the first contingent of postgradu-
October 1992. The JVI, located at premises    ate students.
made available by the Austrian government, is   The success of these programs has encour-
a venture that is cosponsored by the Bank for   aged the institute to look into other, similar
International Settlements. the European Bank    collaborative arrangements. Discussions are
for Reconstruction and Development, the Or-   ongoing among the EDI, the Africa Capacity
ganisation for Economic Co-operation and De-    Building Foundation, and the African Devel-
velopment, the International Monetary Fund.   opment Bank concerning a jointly sponsored
and the Bank. The JVI serves as a channel   program for francophone Africa that would
through which the experience of the participat-   be administered by the Center for Studies
ing organizations can be conveved to officials   and Research on International Development
from the targeted countries. During fiscal 1993,   (CERDI) in Clermont-Ferrand, France. A pro-
the EDI held three seminars on issues related    gram for anglophone Africa, which would be
to privatization and restructuring in transition-    administered by McGill University (Mon-
ing economies.                               treal). is also being discussed.



90   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
Research at the World Bank                    tested, minimal income-redistribution  pro-
grams.
The Bank's research program is intended to    Nutrition-intervention programs have been
provide information and guidance to member   adopted to offset the most severe effects of
countries and operational staff on different   famines and economic downturns on the poor,
development processes and policies as they    and a study of such programs in Asia identifies
apply across a wide range of countries.       successful strategies to improve rapidly the
The topics examined in the Bank's research    nutritional status of the poor.
program are also wide-ranging. and many units   "Coping strategies" employed by urban
throughout the Bank support some research. A    low-income households in response to macro-
reorganization in late 1992 concentrated re-   economic adjustment policies are also being
sponsibility for the Bank's macroeconomic and    studied in a project funded by the United
sectoral research efforts in the Vice Presidency    Nations Children's Fund and the Dutch gov-
for Development Economics and reallocated    ernment. A study of the poor in Lima, Peru
some stafftime devoted to research in other   documents how short-term adjustments have
units to operational issues. The reorganization    longer-term costs (for example, when children
will enhance the cohesiveness of the research    drop out of school and move into the informal-
program and direct the more limited staff re-   sector labor market, investment in, and returns
sources to the most critical areas.           on, education are diminished).
The Bank's management sets priorities for     Human-resource developmnetit. A study of
the Bank's work, and these priorities are re-   fertility in sub-Saharan Africa clearly shows
flected in the topics of research projects. The   that female secondary schooling reduces fer-
major area of emphasis continues to be pov-   tilitv and child mortality, regardless of the
erty, equity, and social-welfare issues. al-   availability of family-planning programs. The
though work in the areas of environmental    project also found that women's schooling,
analysis and human-resource development is   including primary schooling, raises the proba-
growing. The economic transition in the repub-    bility of the use of contraception in all thirteen
lics of the former Soviet Union and in Central   countries studied. It seems to have the greatest
and Eastern Europe has increased work on    effect on contraceptive use in countries with-
reform of the public sector, development of the    out an active family-planning program.
private sector. and economic management.        In many developing countries basic educa-
Support for research on financial intermedia-   tion is not organized to promote efficient
tion, infrastructure, and urban development   production of cognitive skills. Knowledge of
has remained steady, while attention to the    which educational investments are most effec-
more "mature" topics-structural adjustment,   tive in imparting these skills would assist both
debt, and trade-has declined.                 governments and the Bank in allocating re-
Po'ertv ,'eduicrion. Poverty, its reduction,   sources aimed at improving educational out-
and the alleviation of its worst effects are being    comes in developing countries. The ultimate
studied from a range of perspectives in Bank    objective of a project to improve school effec-
research. Poverty is most prevalent in rural   tiveness and efficiency is to demonstrate how
areas, in female-headed households, and among   to carry out education research that will lead to
the elderly. and if poverty-reduction programs    immediate and specific policy recommenda-
are to be effective, they must reach these   tions that can be acted on by ministry of
groups.                                       education  officials  in  developing-member
A study of agricultural policies and poverty    countries, taking Jamaica as the demonstration
assesses women's rights to own land in Africa.   country.
It shows how the effects of policies to increase  Another project will provide hard evidence
agricultural efficiency differ from the effects of   concerning the job mobility associated with the
those promoting social welfare because of dif-   transition of a formerly command-driven econ-
ferences in the social role and status of men    omy (Slovenia, in this case) to a market econ-
and women.                                    omy. And it will formulate labor-market poli-
A study of income-security programs for old   cies and programs to facilitate the transition
people indicates that the most successful pro-    both by encouraging the efficient reallocation
grams have used multiple channels and have    of labor and by spreading the costs equitably
been possible only in middle-income and high-   among different segments of the population.
income countries. These channels include        A comprehensive multicountry study of the
mandatory but competitive programs for sav-   role of human capital in economic growth will
ings out of earnings. encouragement of savings   indicate the relative effects on growth of ob-
for old age through fiscal incentives, and pro-   taining government revenue from  taxes on
tection of the elderly poor through means-   labor income or on wealth and will emphasize



Research at the World Bank   91
the trade-offs between physical and human-    annual report, Thie World Bank and the Envi-
capital investment.                            ronment.
A research study on the economic impact of     Macroeconomic issues and management.
adult mortality seeks to answer two broad    The optimal role that governments should play
research questions: (1) What are the economic   in an economy has long been a controversial
costs and impacts of AIDS illness and death   topic. A comprehensive evaluation of the suc-
among adults on households and communities?    cess of eight East Asian economies looks at the
and (2) how can governments target patient    etfect of their economic policies and actions.
and survivor-assistance programs to maximize    The study finds that growth rates from 1960 to
the benefit to survivors for a given government    1990 were high and sustained, that the fruits of
budget?                                        growth were shared relatively equitably, and
The environment and natuiral resources. A    that the outcome was influenced by the gov-
major task of the Bank's Environment Depart-   ernment's close involvement with subsectoral
ment has been to develop practical analytical    policymaking. What is also clear from  this
approaches to help borrowing countries plan    research, however, is that the prerequisites for
and implement strategies for sustainable devel-   success are so rigorous and the risks of failure
opment in the face of low and often declining    so great that policymakers seeking to follow
fiscal resources. The Bank's expanding re-   the East Asian path should focus first on
search in environmental economics includes    achieving macrostabilitv and promoting the
the design of methods to measure environmen-    fundamentals, such as human resources. A
tal costs and benefits of both broader policies    degree of intervention with regard to export or
and specific projects, a set of basic environ-   industrial development could be helpful, but it
mental indicators, and guidelines for environ-    should have lower priority and be managed
mental management.                             with considerable care.
The Bank's Industrial Pollution Project Sys-   Another research project has analyzed the
tem is being developed to model the scale and    effects of fiscal, monetary, trade, financial.
toxicity of pollution created at the national,   and social policies on national growth. Among
regional, local. or project level. This research    the study's findings were affirmations of the
draws on information collected from  devel-   importance for growth and investment of the
oped countries on toxic releases collected to    government's role in education and public in-
establish pollution coefficients for different   frastructure and further confirmation of the
production technologies. These can be applied    adverse effects of inflation, budget deficits.
to the relatively widely available data on indus-   and macroeconomic instability on growth and
trial production in developing countries to es-   investment. It also found surprisingly strong
timate the toxicitv of the resulting pollution.    evidence linking long-term  increases in pro-
Related research to determine the least-cost    ductivity to investments in the narrow cate-
means to reduce overall concentrations of pol-   gory of machinery.
lution is encompassed in a software package      Infiastructure and uirban development.  A
supported by the government of the Nether-    major research project, begun in 1991. has
lands, the World Health Organisation. and the    assessed the status of the housing sector in
Pan American Health Organization.              more than fiftv countries. The findings provide
Another study  examines  the  least-cost   the basis for a policy framework for housing
method of reducing pollution in developing    policy in each participating country and for
countries. The case studies of Mexico and    comparison and development of related poli-
Indonesia indicate that indirect instruments,   cies in other countries, as well.
such as taxes on "dirty'" fuels, can reduce use  Another project, on indirect government
of these fuels and thus pollution at a relatively    participation in the economy, grew out of an
low cost in terms of reduced efficiency. The    earlier study of impediments to manufacturing
tax-based approach also generates government   efficiency in Nigeria caused by infrastructural
revenues while lowering administrative ex-    bottlenecks. The new study is looking at ways
penses.                                        to increase private-sector entry and exit in
Research  on  amelioration  of irrigation-    infrastructure services outside the capital or
induced salinity recommends the use of water-    primary cities, drawing on case studies from
efficient strains and techniques. An interna-    Indonesia and Thailand.
tional assessment of agricultural technologies   The Bank's fifth annual Conference on De-
examines land improvements, protected crop    velopment Economics surveyed four topics: a
cultivation, and the roles of the public and    reassessment of the government's role in finan-
private sectors in the delivery of seeds.      cial intermediation, regulation of private indus-
The full range of research in the Environ-   try, the economics of regress, and the econom-
ment Department is described in detail in its   ics of energy and the environment. In addition



92   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
to the eleven papers presented, the govern-    has occurred in the area of institutional devel-
ment's role in the provision and maintenance    opment. which now accounts for roughly two
of infirastructure was the subject of a roundtable   thirds of the total dollar value of all technical
discussion. The full set of papers, together with    assistance funded under newly approved loans.
discussant comments, the keynote speech. and     Project-financed technical assistance by the
a summary of the roundtable discussion, will be    Bank in calendar year 1992 amounted to $2.5
published in the Proceedings of the World Bank    billion, an increase of $0.5 billion over last
Annuial Conference ont Development Econom-    year's total. Of this amount. $1.9 billion. or 75
ics. 1993.                                     percent of the total, funded components of
projects. while $0.6 billion was accounted for
Technical Assistance                           by thirtv-two freestanding technical-assistance
Technical assistance has always been related    loans.
to the Bank's operations. and widespread pol-    Although almost all investment projects now
icy changes in developing countries have made    contain a technical-assistance component for
this operational link even more crucial. But   institutional-related issues, some components
many of the Bank's borrowing member coun-    of projects approved during the past year are
tries, including countries in transition to mar-    worthy of special mention: Russia's mass cor-
ket economies, lack the institutional capability    poratization and privatization programs are
that would enable them to address the policy    being supported by Bank technical assistance,
changes involved. Consequently, the Bank is    a forestry and environment-training program
taking an increasingly active role in providing    tailored to the needs of the private sector is
technical assistance in areas of policy reform.   under way in Gabon. while training and studies
institutional development, and capacity build-    associated with Venezuela's national parks
ing upstream of normal lending operations.     management project are being provided. Some
Technical assistance for institutional devel-   projects contain both hard and soft technical
opment ("soft" technical assistance), which    assistance. In the Lao People's Democratic
addresses the areas of policy development and    Republic. for example, technical assistance is
capacity building. now  dominates technical    being provided to establish a computerized
assistance financed through Bank lending. The    rural-electrification planning system  and to
purpose of such technical assistance is both   train staff of the state electricity company in
technical and policy oriented. In the technical    accounting systems and financial processing.
domain, it may be called upon to provide         Of the thirty-two freestanding loans, six
advice on the reform of government machin-    were in support of privatization programs. This
ery. address civil-service salary scales, or in-   represents a change from  previous years in
troduce computer technology into national tax    which the focus was primarily on public-sector
or customs agencies. On the policy side, it may    management.
provide advice to governments on a range of      During 1992, special efforts were made to
national policies in such areas as economic   implement the recommendations of a task
restructuring. education, environment, indus-   force that had been mandated to take stock of
trial protection, and privatization.           the Bank's changing technical-assistance role
These are areas on which national consensus    and suggest ways to improve its developmental
is not always present. As a result, the manage-   impact. The recommendations fell into three
ment and implementation of technical assis-    broad categories: internal management of tech-
tance for institutional development are far    nical assistance at the Bank. the establishment
more problematic than of technical assistance    of an Institutional Development Fund (IDF),
associated with physical investment (" hard"    and technical-assistance coordination, includ-
technical assistance).                         ing improved relations between the Bank and
Technical-assistance approaches designed at    other multilateral agencies, the United Nations
the project level must adjust to meet a more    Development Programme (UNDP) in particu-
complex mandate, and the Bank is responding    lar.
to the challenge. Technical assistance is in-    To implement the recommendations on the
creasing as a proportion of Bank lending, and    management of technical assistance, each of
assistance for institutional development is ris-   the Bank's six operational regions was re-
ing as a proportion of technical assistance.   quired to prepare an action plan to improve its
The volume of technical assistance in which    management of technical assistance. Although
the Bank is involved as lender, provider, or   the regional plans necessarily vary in focus and
administrator has more than doubled (in cur-   detail, reflecting, as they do. the differing
rent dollars) in the past decade. It amounted to    needs of the countries they serve, certain com-
$2.7 billion in 1992. Much of the growth in    mon concerns have been addressed. Thus, all
technical assistance financed under Bank loans    six plans seek to:



Interagency Cooperation   93
heighten the emphasis in country economic    business. fifty-seven grants were made to for-
and sector work (CESW) on institutional con-   tv-six countries for a total of $16.3 million. or
straints. particularly in cases in which these   an average amount of $286,000 per grant.
constraints are systemic:                       Grants may not be made for project prepa-
* include in country-assistance strategies ac-   ration or in support of a planned or an ongoing
tions to resolve systemic issues identified in    Bank-financed activity. A Bankwide commit-
the CESW:                                     tee responsible for approving the grants gives
* secure. through joint consultations with   special consideration to grant requests that are
borrowers, country commitment to ameliorate   either innovative or seize upon a special oppor-
these constraints;                            tunity. For example, grants have been made to
* ensure that the design of technical assis-   finance the creation of aid-coordination mecha-
tance for institutional development establishes    nisms in a number of Central Asian republics of
(a) a link with upstream CESW strategy work   the former Soviet Union, the introduction of
and the borrower's ownership of and commit-   value-added taxes in three countries, and insti-
ment to such a strategy. (b) greater participa-   tutional support for Nicaragua's environmental-
tion by borrowers and beneficiaries in project   protection agency.
design and implementation, and (c) monitor-     As a major source of technical assistance.
able outcomes linking development objectives   the Bank interacts with, and maintains a close
and input requirements: and                   working relationship with the UNDP. the
* include in project documents the expected    Development Assistance Committee of the
timeframe for major milestones.               OECD, and many of the specialized agencies
In addition, a "Handbook on Technical As-   of the United Nations system. The relationship
sistance" was published. The handbook cov-   with the UNDP is reviewed from time to time
ers thirty-two topics. each of which is pre-    by a joint task force that is chaired jointly by
sented as a module to give the reader quick   the associate administrator of the UNDP and
access to Bank policy and experience in a    the Bank's vice president for Human Re-
particular aspect of technical assistance. The    sources Development and Operations Policy.
handbook has been widely disseminated within   In order to learn from their experience, the two
and outside the Bank.                         institutions are undertaking, with the help of
In its "Guidelines for Use of Consultants."    UNDP financing, empirical studies to evaluate
the Bank emphasizes the role of domestic   the performance of six countries-Bolivia,
consultants in Bank-financed projects and en-   Central African Republic, Ghana, Morocco.
courages borrowers to employ them  either    Sri Lanka. and Tanzania-in utilizing funding
alone or in combination with foreign firms.   for capacity building.
To some extent, local consultants have been   During calendar year 1992. the Bank acted
handicapped by a lack of marketing expertise.   as executing agency for 175 UNDP-financed
This constraint is now being addressed by the    projects with a total value of $348 million and
Bank, which, in cooperation with local profes-   generating disbursements of $74 million, down
sional societies, is developing appropriate   16 percent from the previous year. The de-
training courses. The Bank has also issued    cline is the result of diminishing UNDP re-
instructions to staff to ensure that consultants   sources and the shift toward national execu-
hired by borrowers are competent in local   tion of technical-assistance projects.
language skills. This is particularly important
in social-sector projects where public partici-   Interagency Cooperation
pation is emphasized. A revised "Handbook       As part of the process of United Nations
on Consulting Services" will shortly be issued    reform, the secretary-general of the UN,
to provide detailed guidance to Bank staff. as    Boutros Boutros-Ghali. called for a major re-
well as-for the first time-to borrower staff   view of the Administrative Committee on Co-
on how to ensure better selection and supervi-   ordination (ACC). The ACC. which was estab-
sion of technical assistance. Furthermore, the   lished to coordinate the assistance activities
Bank is beginning to implement an active    of the UN system, is comprised of heads of
business-information  program  in borrowing    UN specialized agencies and organizations.
countries in order to promote domestic con-   The Bank supported and participated in the
sulting industries.                           secretary-general's efforts that led to a re-
The IDF. a $25 million grant facility, became    form of the functioning of the ACC and a
operational on July 1, 1992. The IDF provides    streamlining of the structure and operation of
grants of up to $500,000 per activity to cover   its subsidiary bodies.
the cost of upstream institutional development  During the past year, the World Health
and capacity building. All Bank borrowers may    Organisation (WHO) has been an active partic-
apply for IDF grants. During its first year of   ipant in the preparation of the Bank's World



94   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA. and ICSID
Development Report 1993, which has as its   ing UNICEF-sponsored national programs of
theme, investing in health. Substantial use was    action that focus especially on the needs of
made of WHO's technical expertise, particu-    women and children. The two agencies have
larly in health-policy and health-strategy cost-   also collaborated  on a number of recent
effectiveness, health-technology choice, and    projects. UNICEF's on-the-ground presence
health financing. WHO  also worked on a    often gives it a crucial role in project implemen-
jointly sponsored assessment of the global bur-   tation, as well as in the identification and pre-
den of disease, which became a key element of   appraisal stages of the project cycle. The re-
the report. The United Nations Children's   cently approved Second Health, Population,
Fund (UNICEF), bilateral agencies, and other   and Rural Water Supply Project in Mali exem-
institutions also contributed to the report.  plifies cooperation between IDA and UNICEF
The Bank continued to expand its cooper-   over the project cycle. Because UNICEF's
ation with a number of key agencies and orga-    operations are more decentralized and flexible
nizations as it intensified its focus on poverty   than the Bank's. UNICEF is able to fill un-
reduction. For example, the Bank, the United    foreseen needs with dispatch as they emerge
Nations Development Programme (UNDP),   during government-donor reviews of implemen-
UNICEF, WHO, the International Labour Or-   tation.
ganisation (ILO), the Food and Agriculture      An ongoing joint initiative with the UNDP
Organization of the UN (FAO). and the World   and the African Development Bank is the
Food Programme (WFP) worked together on a    African Capacity Building Initiative (ACBI),
recent multisectoral project in Madagascar   launched in 1991. The objective of the initiative
aimed at protecting vulnerable groups during   is to strengthen Afiican capacity and institu-
structural adjustment.                       tions in policy analysis and development man-
The International Fund for Agricultural De-   agement in order to enhance Africa's ability to
velopment (IFAD) and the Bank are collabo-   train expert policy analysts and managers. In
rating on specific investment activities that   addition, the UNDP and the Bank are imple-
address key poverty problems, the first phase    menting. with UNDP funding. a pilot study of
of which covers Bolivia, C6te d'lvoire. Hon-   capacity building in six countries (Bolivia,
duras, Pakistan. and Zimbabwe. In Bolivia and    Central African Republic. Ghana. Morocco,
Honduras. the emphasis is on agricultural   Sri Lanka, and Tanzania). It will form the basis
projects with a poverty orientation. In C6te   on which the two institutions can better coor-
d'lvoire, the Bank and IFAD are studying the    dinate their efforts in capacity building. consis-
effect of adjustment on smallholders. In Zim-   tent with their comparative advantage.
babwe. the collaboration involves helping       The Bank has also expanded its cooperation
the government design a "social-dimensions''   with organizations working in the field of em-
component for its structural-adjustment pro-    ployment and labor issues. As part of a four-
gram.                                         day Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF)
The Bank is also collaborating with the    seminar in November 1992. staff from both
United Nations Fund for Population Activities   institutions met with international labor-union
(UNFPA). For a recent Bank-assisted project   officials for discussions on the implications for
in Indonesia, UNFPA initiated the work on the    workers of structural-adjustment policies fi-
information, education, and communications    nanced by the two institutions. The seminar
component. UNFPA  developed prototypes    represented the latest in a series of consulta-
of short films on population and financed    tions among the Bank, the IMF, trade unions,
an evaluation of this activity. It also provided    and other concerned UN organizations, in par-
a pilot for a Bank-financed subcomponent   ticular the ILO, on development-policy issues
stressing youth involvement in population    of shared interest, particularly structural-ad-
education by establishing youth centers and   justment programs and employment issues.
conducting training. UNFPA is also one of       Relations Uiv/i nongovernmenital organiza-
three UN agencies (in addition to UNICEF    tions. The Bank's relationship with nongov-
and WHO) participating in the IDA-led Bang-   ernmental organizations (NGOs) continued to
ladesh Population and Health Consortium.   expand in depth and magnitude in fiscal year
The consortium, which also includes fifteen    1993. This relationship is manifest at both the
external donors, is helping to finance the    policy level and through Bank-supported lend-
largest population and health project ever   ing operations. The Bank continues to work
assisted by the Bank (total project costs are    with developing-country governments to in-
estimated at slightly more than $600 million).   crease the involvement of NGOs in Bank-
With UNICEF, the Bank is undertaking a    supported activities-especially in the early
special joint review in Ghana, Guinea, Uganda,   stages of project planning and design-as a
and Zimbabwe of government efforts in prepar-   means for greater effectiveness.



nferagency Cooperaton    95
Table 5-2. Regional and Sectoral Patterns in World Bank-NGO Operational
Collaboration, Fiscal 1974-93
Total
1974-89        1990           1991          1992          1993
No.   %      No.      <    No.    /       No. ',7/   No.   (%
By region (number of projects)
Africa                               J40   55     23      48    41       47     30    46      30    41
East Asia and Pacific                26   10       6      12    13       15      6     9      11    15
South Asia                           32   13      11      23     16       8      9    14       7    10
Europe and Central Asia               3    1    -         -       3       3      3    4        2     3
Latin America and
the Caribbean                    38   15       8      17    13       15    12   I8    14    19
Middle East and North Africa          16    6     -       -       2       2      6     9      9    12
Total                           255  100    48       100     88     100    66   100    73   100
BY sector (number of projects)
Adjustment related                    7    3       6      13    14       16      7    11       5     7
Agriculture/rural development        110   43     19      40    21       24    21   32        14    19
Education                            25   10       6      12    10       11      6     9      6      8
Environment                           4    2       3       6      5       6      10   15    13    18
Industry/energy                      24    9       1       2     10      11      6     9       8    11
Infrastructure/urban development     47   18       4       8     12      14      6     9       8    11
Population. health. and nutrition    34   13       9      19    14       16      8    12    16    22
Rehabilitation/reconstruction         4    2    -         -       2       2      2    3       3      4
Total                           255  100    48       100    88      100     66   100    73   100
Table 5-3. NGO-associated Projects by Sector, Fiscal 1993
Projects                Projects
with NGO                with NGO
collaboratiojt          collaboration           All Bank
Sector                                          (niunmber)                (' I                 projects
Population. health, and nutrition                  16                     64                     25
Agriculture and rural development                 24                      53                     45
Water supply and sewerage                          5                      42                     12
Urban development                                  6                      38                     16
Nonproject                                         5                      29                     17
Education                                          9                      28                     32
Energy                                                                    22                     23
Technical assistance                                                       11                    19
Transportation                                      1                      4                     27
Indlustry                                          0                       0                     12
Public-sector management                           0                       0                      8
Telecommunications                                 0                       0                      5
Development finance companies                      0                       0                      4
Small-scale enterprises                            0                       0                      0
The number of approved projects that pr-o-            The involvement of relevant NGOs. and
vide opportunities for NGO  involvement has           especially beneficiary groups. in the planning
increased substantially in the past few years.    of Bank-supported projects has been encour-
In fiscal year 1993. 30 percent of all new            aged by the Bank's executive directors and its
projects involved NGOs (see Table 5-2). NGOs          senior management. To facilitate interaction
were involved most heavily in the agriculture         early in the project cycle, the Bank periodi-
and  rural development and  the population.    calby makes available to NGOs a list of pro-
health, and nutrition sectors (see Table 5-3).        spective  Bank-supported  activities in which



96   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
Bank staff see potential for NGO involvement.   their own independent activities. National or
The fruits of these efforts are reflected in the    regional workshops that deal with ways for
increased number of projects in which NGOs   governments and NGOs to cooperate to im-
are engaged in the identification and design    prove development programs are under way in
stages.                                      health, resettlement, and water. With cofi-
The Bank attaches great value to its ongoing    nancing from donors. including the govern-
discussions with NGOs on environment, pov-   ments of Japan and the Netherlands, the EDI
erty reduction. popular participation, and a    also supports a number of NGO-led. multiyear
variety of other issues. The Bank-NGO dia-   institutional-development programs. The prin-
logue is both formal-through the World Bank-   cipal programs address urban povertv in Latin
NGO Committee and consultations on specific    America, strategic planning in francophone
issues-and informal-through ad hoc discus-    Africa. poverty  reduction  in Africa, and
sions that build on personal contacts. Through    women as entrepreneurs. These programs are
constructive dialogue. the Bank and NGOs    either organized by local NGOs or conducted
learn from each other, and together, work to   in close collaboration with them. Thev have
help address the root causes of poverty and   the dual aims of enhancing the effectiveness
environmental degradation.                   and efficiency of NGO programs and of build-
The Bank-NGO Committee continues to be   ing training capacity in developing regions to
an important forum for policy debate. con-   serve NGOs in the long run.
centrating on participatory development and    Cooperationt with thie Commission ojr the
social and environmental consequences of   Euiropean Communities (CEC) and wvith the
structural adjustment. Increasingly, however.   Or-ganisationz for Economic Co-operation and
special consultations are convened outside this    Development (OECD). The Bank had an ac-
forum to discuss particular upcoming issues.   tive year of cooperation with the Commission
This trend builds on the generally positive    of the European Communities. A highlight was
experience reported by all parties involved in    a meeting in October 1992 in Brussels by the
the past two years' consultations (on forestry,   Bank's president with the president of the CEC
energy, and water-resource management).      and four commission members. The presidents
In fiscal 1993 the Bank organized a consul-   of the two institutions focused on increased
tation in Paris on the draft of World Develop-    collaboration and the role of their institutions
ment Report 1993. as well as a consultation    in assisting the transition process in the repub-
with African NGOs on the topic. "Better   lics of the former Soviet Union (FSU).
Health in Africa." In recognition of NGO       Regular operational contacts continued be-
concerns about future IDA priorities. the Bank   tween the CEC and regional offices, a substan-
arranged for a group of NGOs from developing    tive working relationship already exists in Af-
countries to meet with IDA deputies and senior   rica. the Middle East and North Africa, and
Bank staff to present their concerns. Their   Central and Eastern Europe. In matters con-
constructive criticism  was influential in en-   cerning the FSU. the Bank and the CEC are
couraging many NGOs to stress the impor-   entering into a new era of collaboration: The
tance of full IDA replenishment. Consultations    visit of a CEC team  in February 1993 to
with NGOs on energy policy have continued,   Washington for a first round of detailed sec-
and a small NGO consultation was held prior to   toral discussions marked the beginning of reg-
finalizing the draft of the Bank's forthcoming    ular and increasing exchanges on respective
policy paper on agriculture.                 plans and programs.
The Bank, together with the other two im-    A new commission was appointed in January
plementing agencies of the Global Environ-    1993, and the commissioner for development
ment Facility (GEF)-the  UNDP and the    cooperation visited the Bank soon thereafter to
United Nations Environment Programme-    brief senior management on his portfolio.
conducted meetings with concerned NGOs         The Bank's liaison with the CEC is sup-
prior to meetings of GEF participants in Abid-   ported by a staff member working out of the
jan (December 1992) and Beijing (May 1993).   Bank's Paris office. This permits the Bank to
NGOs contribute to the GEF through use of   monitor CEC trends and developments of im-
the UNDP-administered $5 million grant "win-   portance to the Bank. to promote collaboration
dow" that supports NGO initiatives in biodi-   in areas where little interaction exists, and to
versity.                                     ensure a Bank presence at the CEC.
The Economic Development Institute con-      The Bank actively pursues a dialogue on
tinues to work with NGOs to increase their   policies and practices of mutual concern to
role in poverty reduction, both through coop-   bilateral and multilateral aid donors with the
eration with. or participation in. official (gov-   OECD and its Development Assistance Com-
ernment and donor) programs and through    mittee (DAC). Data are regularly exchanged



Interagency Cooperation   97
between the Bank and the DAC. especially    views on how the AsDB might undertake a
with regard to aid flows, as well as debt and    similar review. Finally, the Bank, as chairman
financial transfers. Aid effectiveness, popular   of the consultative group on the Philippines,
participation and good governance, military   invited the AsDB to join the informal "core
expenditures. and migration issues have fea-   group" of lenders. which. in addition to the
tured prominently in the recent dialogue be-   World Bank and the AsDB, includes the Inter-
tween the Bank and the DAC. A Bank staff   national Monetary  Fund. Japan, and  the
member based in Paris monitors issues raised    United States. The AsDB participated in the
in the DAC forum, where the Bank has ob-   core-group meeting that was held in Washing-
server status.                                ton during the spring meetings of the Develop-
A recently published manual. DAC Princi-    ment Committee: discussions also took place
ples fir Ejfectiive Aid, culminated years of   on the steps that lie ahead when normal lending
work on issues such as project appraisal. tech-    activities in Cambodia and Viet Nam are re-
nical assistance. procurement practices. tied    sumed.
aid, policy lending. environmental assess-      Cooperation with the Inter-American Devel-
ments. and women in development. Bank staff   opment Bank (IDB) continued in fiscal 1993.
have been actively involved in helping develop    During the year. the IDB provided $804 million
these "best-practice" guidelines. An emphasis   of cofinancing for ten World Bank projects. or
on aid effectiveness will continue to guide the    about one quarter of all cofinancing in the
dialogue between the institutions.            region. The two institutions continue to coor-
Cooperationl U'ith/ regionial baniks. The Af-   dinate their activities at all levels, including
rican Development Bank and the World Bank    economic and sector work, project appraisal,
continue to maintain close collaboration on    and policy dialogue. Cooperation was particu-
operational and policv matters. The AfDB par-   larIv close in the two cases of Argentina (debt
ticipates in joint appraisal missions and public-    buyback operations) and El Salvador (adjust-
expenditure reviews with the Bank. and there    ment program).
is an increasing amount of AfDB cofinancing of  The Bank is also deepening its long-standing
Bank operations.                              cooperation with the Caribbean Development
The two institutions work closely on several    Bank (CDB) in both lending activities and
key development issues and programs. includ-   economic and sector work. The CDB will
ing support of structural-adjustment programs    increasingly be taking over the role of devel-
under the special program of assistance, pov-   oping economic and sector reports, including
erty reduction. environmental assessments and    poverty assessments. for the smaller Carib-
action plans, regional economic integration,   bean nations.
and women in development. The two institu-      The growth in activities by the World Bank
tions are engaged in coordinating their analyt-   and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
ical and operational approaches to these devel-    Development (EBRD) in the countries of the
opment issues. The Bank and the AfDB    Europe and Central Asia region has required a
consult with each other on a regular basis,   significant cooperative effort. Contacts have
including during their respective annual meet-   taken place at all levels. At the task-manager
ings.                                         level, collaborative arrangements have led to
The Bank strengthened its relationship with   joint activities, for instance. in support of priva-
the Asian Development Bank (AsDB) in a    tization in Russia and Ukraine, on financial-
number of ways during the past year. Arrange-   sector development in Bulgaria and Romania,
ments continued for the AsDB to take the lead    and on regionwide energy issues-often in con-
role on formal cofinancing for projects in the   junction with other European multilateral insti-
Pacific islands and for the Bank to engage in   tutions. At a higher level, visits by department
parallel financing with the AsDB in other coun-    directors and other senior staff of the two
tries for projects within a sector (rather than   institutions have taken place to exchange views
cofinancing a single project).                and anticipate opportunities for further collab-
In May 1993, the two banks continued their   oration.
practice of holding an annual coordination      Cooperation oni agricultural resea-rchl. The
meeting on the occasion of the AsDB's annual   Consultative Group on International Agricul-
meeting, at which views were exchanged on a    tural Research (CGIAR). comprising forty-one
number of areas of mutual interest, including    public and private-sector members, is jointly
resource mobilization, portfolio management.   sponsored by the Bank, the FAO, and the
country issues. and cofinancing prospects.    UNDP. Indonesia joined the CGIAR in 1992.
Earlier in the year, the Bank shared the anal-   increasing the group's number of developing
ysis and findings of its Task Force on Portfolio   country members to eight. Thirty countries are
Management with the AsDB and exchanged    members of the CGIAR.



98   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
Decisions made by the group during the past   for Plant Genetic Resources in cooperation
year will change the way in which the CGIAR    with the International Institute of Tropical
conducts its business, further develop its em-    Agriculture, located in Ibadan, Nigeria.
phasis on sustainability, and lead to a consoli-  CGIAR centers reported a number of signif-
dation of programs (the number of CGIAR    icant research achievements including, in par-
centers will drop from eighteen to sixteen.)   ticular. new varieties of potato and cassava
Two committees of donors, for finance and    that could help farmers in developing countries
for oversight, were established during the year,   to step up food output and reduce the use of
marking the first major change in governance    costly and hazardous chemical pesticides.
since the group was established in 1971. The     For several years. the International Potato
finance committee, which consists of donor    Center (CIP) in Lima, Peru has led an effort to
institutions, will work in areas that include    develop host plant resistance in potatoes,
resource mobilization, funding modes, core    which traditionally require the heaviest appli-
and project funding, and resource allocation.   cation of pesticides among the world's major
The World Bank was elected to chair the    food crops. The 'hairy potato," which earned
committee. The oversight committee, which    its name from the hair-like trichomes on its
consists of individual donor representatives,   leaves and stems, traps and kills pest insects as
will seek to improve review mechanisms, over-   they try to eat or reproduce on potato plants.
see the operation of checks and balances    Field tests in various countries have shown it
within the CGIAR system  and, overall, will   resists everything from thrips to aphids, the
ensure that all CGIAR activities are conducted    potato tuber moth, and the Colorado potato
with due diligence.                            beetle. The new variety, developed in associ-
In 1993, the group reaffirmed its emphasis on    ation with scientists at Cornell University
the two-pronged strategy of combining growth in   (New York), could save countries of the devel-
productivity with sustainability of the natural-   oping world some of the $300 million they
resource base on which productivity depends.   spend annually on pesticides used in potato
The five-year work programs of CGIAR centers    production. For this research achievement, the
(1994-98) restructured activities and reallocated    CGIAR honored CIP with the 1992 biennial
resources to integrate productivity concerns    King Baudouin Award for International Agri-
with the sustainability of natural resources. Soils   cultural Research.
and water, biodiversity, and human-resource de-  The insect resistance of the "hairy potato"
velopment were earmarked for CGIAR involve-    comes from its breeding with a wild potato
ment in the Agenda 21 manifesto.               species with high trichome density. It is the
Two new international centers were wel-   first recorded instance of a wild relative being
comed into the group during the past year: the    used for developing insect resistance in a po-
Center for International Forestry Research (es-   tato fit for human consumption.
tablished in Bogor, Indonesia) and the Manila-   Recent advances in breeding high-yielding
based International Center for Living Aquatic    varieties of cassava, a major food crop in the
Resources Management.                          tropics. have led to the emergence of a "super
Noting the importance of livestock to the    cassava." which could make it easier for sub-
rural poor, the group decided that the CGIAR    Saharan Africa to avoid periodic food short-
system required a single, unified global strat-   ages and improve food security. Originating in
egy and program  and a single institution to    Brazil. cassava-also known as manioc or
conduct livestock research. The CGIAR's two    yucca-is the world's most important root
Africa-based livestock-research centers-the    and tuber crop after potatoes, and is grown in
International Livestock Centre for Africa and    all tropical regions. In Africa it is the main
the International Laboratory for Research on    staple of over 200 million people and is grown
Animal Diseases-will form  the core of the    extensively from  Senegal to Mozambique.
new, unified institution.                      Cassava's starchy roots are edible, and its
Harmonizing various options proposed for   leaves are rich in vitamin A. Cassava stores
how best to pursue international research in    well in the ground. The plant is highly drought
banana and plantain in association with devel-   resistant, under extreme conditions it sheds
oping-country partners, the CGIAR decided    leaves to reduce evaporation, thus protecting
that research programs currently coordinated    the root.
by the International Network for the Improve-    The International Institute for Tropical Ag-
ment of Banana and Plantain (INIBAP) based    riculture (IITA) in Ibadan, Nigeria. has suc-
in Montpellier. France would evolve into a    cessfully tested varieties that could increase
single research consortium  (to include the    yields per hectare on farmers' fields from the
INIBAP) for germplasm improvement admin-    current African average of 12 tons to about 40
istered by the Rome-based International Board   tons. The newest lines of cassava owe this



The Administrative Budget, Personnel, and Administration   99
potential for high yield to multiple sets of     World Bank regular and fixed-term staff on
chromosomes obtained through crosses be-    board at the end of fiscal year 1993 totaled
tween cassava and some of its wild relatives.    6,197, of whom 4,005 were higher-level staff
Such so-called polyploid cassavas, lined with   from  121 nations. The total number of staff
more than the normal number of chromo-   increased 2.5 percent from the previous year:
somes, show not only higher yields but also    higher-level staff grew by 2.9 percent. Of the
promise of other improved traits.              higher-level staff, 58 percent were from indus-
The new varieties could thus help improve    trialized countries. while the remaining 42 per-
Africa's food security, for instance, during    cent were from developing countries. The pro-
periodic droughts. by providing a plentiful    portions at the end of fiscal year 1992 were the
and reliable source of carbohydrates. In    same.
Southern  Africa, where cassava is infre-        Women employed as higher-level staff by
quently grown, they could help reduce depen-   the Bank increased from 27.4 percent of the
dence on maize, the main staple, which is   total to 28.4 percent during fiscal 1993. The
vulnerable to drought.                         Bank recruited 239 new higher-level staff in
Total funding  for CGIAR-supported  re-   fiscal 1993, of whom 41 percent were from
search in calendar year 1993 is expected to be    developing countries and 31 percent were
some $300 million, slightly lower than in 1992.   women. Some thirty of the Bank's recruits
were selected through the Young Professionals
The Administrative Budget, Personnel,          Program; thirteen were from developing coun-
and Administration                             tries, and nineteen were women.
The Bank's administrative budget for fiscal    At the end of the year. a total of 913 higher-
1993, as approved in fiscal 1992 by thc execu-   level, long-term consultants (those with con-
tive directors, was $1,251 million. In October   tracts with a duration of six months or more)
1992, the executive board approved $20 million    were working for the Bank, and 533 regular
in emergency-assistance grants to support the    and fixed-term staff were in special positions.
relief efforts of agencies working in Somalia.   The Bank's organizational structure was ad-
Late in fiscal 1993. the executive directors   justed in fiscal 1993 to provide better support
approved an administrative budget for fiscal   and leadership in the key thematic areas of
1994 of $1.388.7 million (see Table 5-4), an    development assistance in the 1990s-environ-
increase of 11.0 percent over the original bud-    mentally  sustainable  development, private-
get of the previous year. The budget reflects   sector development, and human-resource de-
the Bank's program priorities for the coming    velopment. The improved structure will also
year: supporting poverty reduction, increasing    better enable the Bank to effectively balance
the developmental effectiveness of Bank oper-   country focus, sector expertise, and thematic
ations. and supporting policy reforms in a large    emphases in its operational work.
number of countries, including new and reac-     The reorganization, effective January  1.
tivating members.                              1993. replaced the vice presidency for Sector
The fiscal 1994 budget was the first to be    and Operations Policy with three new vice
prepared under the revised system approved    presidencies: Human-resource Development
last year. The new process, designed to reduce    and Operations Policy. Finance and Private-
complexity while increasing transparency and    sector Development, and  Environmentally
cost-consciousness, included:                  Sustainable Development. Within the regions,
* the preparation of a Planning Directions    the sector-operations divisions were strength-
Paper, with indicative three-year planning and    ened, while the technical departments were
provisional resource guidelines, for review in   recast to mirror the new thematic vice presi-
February by the Committee of the Whole;        dencies. Research responsibilities were con-
* the preparation in February and March by    solidated under the vice president, Develop-
units of detailed three-year business plans.    ment Economics. By pooling a critical mass of
including proposed budgets for the coming    technical and sectoral expertise on a global
fiscal year, consistent with the provisional   rather than a strictly regional basis, the new
guidelines;                                    structure allows the Bank to respond more
* the preparation of the Bankwide budget   flexibly to changing needs among the regions,
proposal for the new fiscal year. formulated    which is critical to ensuring efficient use of
within the three-year business-planning frame-   resources despite high degrees of uncertainty
work, presented to the executive directors for    at the country level.
consideration in June: and                       Personnel and administration continued to
* the Bankwide application of dollar budgets   focus on helping the Bank and its staff meet the
to enhance individual managers' ability to    challenges of fiscal 1993. Priorities included
make effective resource trade-offs.            the completion of recruitment for the expanded



100    World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA. and ICSID
Table 54. World Bank Budget by Expense Category and Administrative Program,
Fiscal Years 1991-94
(millions of US dollars)
Actual
1994
Item                                               1991           1992            1993          program
Expense caregory
Staff costsa                                      612.0           699.9           771.4           875.8
Consultants                                        78.0            89.2           103.1           112.1
Contractual services/representation                33.5            37.3            42.9            45.4
Operational travel                                 96.9           113.5           122.0           131.9
Overheada                                         151.5           176.1           209.1           211.5
Direct contributions to special
grants program"                                  57.0           58.6             80.7            86.1
President's contingencyc                             -              -                -             13.6
Reimbursements                                    (65.2)         (100.5)          (95.3)          (99.9)
Additional funding for RSBP'                         -               -               -             12.2
Total                                           963.6         1,074.0         1,233.9e        1.388.7
Administrative Prograinf
Operational                                       441.3           507.2           607.3           619.9
Financial                                          68.3            77.0            85.0            90.0
Development and advisoryg                         158.9           178.9           169.9           216.2
Administrative support                             95.2           109.2           119.0           123.8
Corporate management and legal services            44.6            52.0            55.1            57.6
Total                                           808.3          924.3          1,036.3         1,107.5
Overhead/benefits'                                109.2           132.0           146.9           194.1
President's contingency                              -              -                -             13.6
Reimbursements                                    (65.2)         (100.5)          (95.3)          (99.9)
Net administrative programs                       852.3          955.8          1,087.9         1.215.3
Special programs'                                  65.0            65.7            88.7            96.4
Boards                                             36.5            41.0            44.8            51.0
Operations evaluation                              10.0            11.4            12.5            13.7
Additional funding for RSBPd                         -               -               -             12.2
Total budget                                    963.7         1,074.0         1,233.9Y        1,388.7
- Not applicable.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Fiscal 1991-92 figures differ from fiscal 1992 Annual Report due to reclassification of certain expense items.
b. Includes Institutional Development Fund in fiscal 1993 and fiscal 1994.
c. Allocations from president's contingency have been included in respective categories/programs for fiscal 1991-93.
d. Retired staff benefits plan.
e. Excludes $20.0 million for Somalia relief.
f. Includes allocated staff benefit expenses (fiscal 1991-93) and budget (fiscal 1994).
g. Includes reorganized policy, research, and dissemination programs.
h. Centrally managed overhead and benefits, excludes overhead for special grants program.
Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region. im-    of 140 positions to the staffing of the ECA
plementation  of  the  recent  organizational    region in mid 1992. By the end of 1992, most of
changes, strengthening the personnel-manage-    these positions had been filled, either through
ment system  and policy framework, and pur-    external recruitment or internal reassignment.
suing the rehabilitation  of the Bank's main           During this period the Bank's approach to both
facilities complex.                                    recruitment and long-term  staff planning was
Expansion of Bank activities in the republics        strengthened  through  the  establishment of
of the former Soviet Union led to the addition         Sectoral/Operational Staffing Groups, formed



International Finance Corporation   101
to identify strategic staffing issues and clear    1996. continued on schedule. By the end of
candidates for recruitment.                    fiscal 1993 the first phase was virtually com-
While more focused attention on career    pleted, and occupancy was scheduled to be
planning and central coordination of reassign-    completed early in fiscal 1994. When finished.
ments were goals of the personnel function in   the new  complex will accommodate 1,200
fiscal 1993, the overriding priority was staffing    more staff than the buildings that were re-
the three new vice presidencies and facilitating    placed and will provide a full array of modern
other staff movements resulting from organiza-    headquarters support services that could not
tional changes. The improved reassignment    be accommodated in the older buildings.
processes were implemented on a small scale
at first, but coverage has since been broadened    International Finance Corporation
to include virtually all staff. The Career Devel-  The  International  Finance  Corporation
opment Review, a career planning tool for staff   (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group.
used by the institution for training and reas-    promotes private enterprise in its developing
signment purposes, was introduced in fiscal    member countries. It does this by financing
1993, as was a new performance-management    sound private-sector projects. mobilizing debt
process for managers that bases evaluations on    and equity financing in the international mar-
critical job competencies.                     kets for private companies. and providing tech-
The Bank's strategy to improve the repre-    nical assistance and advisory services to busi-
sentation of women at senior organizational    nesses and governments.
levels and to address in a meaningful way        The growth of the IFC's operations in fiscal
issues affecting women as Bank staff received    1993 was exceptionally strong. Financing ap-
continued attention in fiscal 1993 through the    proved for IFC's own account was $2.1 billion
appointment of a Senior Adviser on Women's   for 185 projects, compared with $1.8 billion for
Issues. In January 1993, the Bank created the    167 projects in fiscal 1992. The IFC achieved
Office of the Historian to develop and maintain    one of its key objectives, increasing equity and
an authoritative record of events, policies, and    quasi-equity investments to help companies in
activities of the Bank Group, and to report on    developing countries achieve a better balance
trends in the Bank's evolution that could con-    between debt and equity financing. At $519
tribute to understanding the Bank's work. An-    million, equity and quasi-equity investments
other significant initiative completed during    accounted for 24 percent of financing approved
fiscal 1993 was a study of the relationship   for IFC's own account.
between work and family life of staff in the     It was another record year for the IFC's
Bank. which recommended modification of   resource-mobilization activities. It approved
several personnel policies and practices, the    $1.8 billion  in financing  to  be mobilized
creation of relevant support programs, and    through loan syndications and the underwriting
the institution of pilot studies on other poten-    of securities issues and investment funds.
tial changes intended to reduce conflicts be-    Projects approved by the IFC had total invest-
tween family needs and job requirements. The    ment costs of $17 billion; this means that other
recommendations are being implemented.         investors and lenders will provide a total of
Other areas of personnel and administration    seven dollars for every dollar approved by the
were also active in improving the workplace    IFC.
environment during fiscal 1993. In August        The corporation approved projects in fifty-
1992. the Bank began the practice of using dual   four countries, compared with fifty-one coun-
contractors for its travel-service requirements   tries in fiscal 1992. It also approved a number
for the first time, an arrangement that has    of projects with a regional or international
proven successful. The dual-contractor con-    scope. As a result of the improved business
cept was extended to food services in January    environment in Asia, Latin America, Central
1993. Efforts to  develop  an  information-    and Eastern Europe, and the Middle East and
technology "enterprise network," a centrally    North Africa. IFC's approvals in those regions
managed and supported service using a stan-    showed a marked increase over fiscal 1992.
dard interface and  allowing voice, video.    The  corporation  approved  its first three
graphic. image. text, and numeric data to be    projects in Russia (two oil-development ven-
shared easily throughout the institution and    tures and a credit line to a financial institution),
with external entities, have also progressed in   as well as its first projects in Lebanon since
fiscal 1993 with the extension of the pilot    1978. It also approved its largest investments
network into the Latin America and the Carib-   to date in the Czech Republic and Poland and
bean region.                                   expanded its investment activities in China,
The rehabilitation of the Bank's main com-    with three new projects. In sub-Saharan Af-
plex buildings, due to be completed in fiscal   rica, as a result of the difficult investment



102   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
environment and the smaller average size of   billion, down I percent from fiscal 1992. The
projects financed by the IFC, investment ap-    IFC's disbursed portfolio grew by 9 percent, to
provals were lower than in fiscal 1992. The IFC    reach $5.4 billion at June 30, 1993.
strengthened its focus on small and medium-      Advisory operations also increased sharply,
sized enterprises and capital-market develop-    particularly in connection with privatization
ment, while continuing to play a catalytic role   and restructuring. There was also a greater
in large mining and energy projects. It also    regional diversity in the IFC's advisory work
helped launch two investment funds that will   as a result of new engagements in Asia, sub-
invest exclusively  in  African  companies.   Saharan Africa. and the Middle East. It con-
among the first of their kind in the region.   tinued to advise government authorities in
Projects approved spanned a broad range of   Russia and Ukraine on privatization and re-
sectors, including financial services, tourism.    ceived a mandate to provide advice on the
mining, petrochemicals, oil and gas develop-    privatization of a large agribusiness consor-
ment, telecommunications, agribusiness, and    tium  in Odessa. In connection with capital-
manufacturing. The infrastructure sector wit-    market development, the IFC provided techni-
nessed a particularly sharp increase in IFC ac-   cal assistance  in  thirty-one  countries  or
tivity, as many developing countries have begun    regions. It worked on the drafting of securities
to open up the telecommunications, power-   laws and regulations, the establishment of su-
generation, transportation, and water-supply    pervisory and enforcement entities and mech-
sectors to private investors. Nearly 18 percent of   anisms for securities markets, and the creation
total financing approved by the IFC-$379 mil-   or development of stock exchanges. It also
lion-will go to private-sector projects in infra-   collaborated with the World Bank on several
structure.                                     financial-sector reviews and helped govern-
The volume of capital-markets projects ap-    ment authorities in several countries design
proved by the IFC also increased, to $385    sector-development strategies.
million. The corporation approved fifty-seven.   The Foreign Investment Advisory Service
projects involving the creation or expansion of   (FIAS), which is supervised by a committee
financial institutions, the establishment of in-    consisting  of representatives of the IFC,
vestment funds, the underwriting of securities    MIGA, and the Bank, completed thirty-one
issues, and credit lines to financial intermedi-   advisory assignments in twenty-eight countries
aries. The IFC is helping to establish a fund    during the year.
that will provide equity capital for private-    The corporation's financial performance was
sector power projects in Latin America as well   satisfactory during the vear, with net income
as a fund that will invest in gold-mining com-    reaching $142 million, a return of 5.6 percent
panies in different developing regions. Another    on IFC's net worth, which reached $2.7 billion
fund being established will provide equity cap-    at June 30. 1993, compared with $2.4 billion at
ital for companies being privatized in Mo-   June 30, 1992. The corporation borrowed $1.3
rocco. The IFC approved the underwriting of   billion in the international markets, almost
eleven securities offerings with a total value of   double the amount borrowed in fiscal 1992. Its
$978 million, including the first global equity   largest borrowing during the year-and in its
issue by a Colombian company.                  history-was a Y40 billion bond issue, the
The IFC increased the volume and variety of   IFC's first Euroyen bond issue. During the
risk-management services offered to clients. It   year the IFC's executive board authorized a
approved eight projects involving risk-manage-    warrant-issuance program that will contribute
ment techniques such as interest-rate and cur-   to a lowering of the IFC's funding costs.
rency swaps or the provision of multi-instru-    The corporation's membership increased to
ment facilities for companies in Asia. Europe,    155 countries in fiscal 1993. In response to the
and Latin America.                             growing demand for its services as countries
In fiscal 1993. the IFC developed a new tool    around the world accelerate the move to a
for foreign investors interested in emerging    market economy, the IFC expanded its pres-
stock markets, the IFC Investable Indexes,   ence worldwide. It opened a representative
which measure the performance of 650 stocks    office in Frankfurt to develop contacts with
in eighteen such markets. The indexes provide    companies interested in investing in Central
a neutral benchmark that is consistent across    and Eastern Europe. It opened resident mis-
markets and take into account any corporate or    sions in Beijing, Buenos Aires, Mexico City,
legal restrictions applying to foreign invest-   and Moscow. The corporation and the Africa
ment in the stock markets covered.             Project Development Facility each opened a
New commitments signed during the year    branch in Accra to handle increased demand
reached $1.5 billion, compared with $1.3 bil-   for advice and project finance for small and-
lion in fiscal 1992. Disbursements reached $1.1    medium-sized enterprises in Ghana.



Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency   103
The corporation's board of governors ap-   for fifteen years; in exceptional cases, cover-
proved a $1 billion general capital increase for   age may be extended to twenty years. MIGA
IFC at the end of fiscal 1992. In fiscal 1993 the    also cooperates with national investment-in-
board of governors approved a $150 million    surance agencies and private insurers to coin-
selective capital increase to accommodate the    sure or reinsure eligible investments. In fiscal
memberships of the former Soviet republics    1993, MIGA issued its sixth reinsurance policy
and the Marshall Islands. These capital in-   in favor of the Ministry of International Trade
creases supported the expansion of IFC's op-   and Industry, which is responsible for Japan's
erations during the fiscal year.              official export-credit and investment insur-
Details of the IFC's fiscal year can be found    ance.
in its annual report, published separately.     MIGA issued a record twenty-seven con-
tracts during fiscal 1993 totaling $374 million in
Multilateral Investment Guarantee             coverage. Fourteen host governments are ex-
Agency                                        pected to benefit, in aggregate. by the facilitat-
Established in April 1988, the Multilateral   ing of some $1.9 billion in foreign investments.
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) is the   the creation of an estimated 1,720 jobs. and
youngest member of the World Bank Group.   other less tangible but equally important ben-
MIGA was established with the objective of   efits involving the transfer of technology and
encouraging the flow of foreign direct invest-   employee training.
ment (FDI) to. and among, developing member     As the agency has grown in the years since
countries. It does this by offering political-risk   its establishment, the regional coverage of its
investment insurance coverage to private in-   guarantee program has broadened.
vestors and providing promotional and advis-    In Africa, MIGA has issued guarantees for a
ory services to assist its developing-member   cobalt-extraction project in Uganda, a foreign
countries in their efforts to attract and retain    bank reentry into Tanzania. and a gold mine in
FDI.                                          Ghana: in the Middle East and Europe region,
The demand for MIGA's services and guar-   guarantees were issued  to companies for
antees is increasing as the world is experienc-    projects located in the Czech Republic, Poland,
ing a steady growth of private investment over   Turkey. and Saudi Arabia; in Latin America,
a wide spectrum  of industries in developing    guarantees were issued for projects located in
countries.                                    Argentina, Guyana. and Jamaica, and within
Member relations. Fiscal 1993 saw a dra-   the Asian region, projects were guaranteed in
matic increase in country  membership in    Bangladesh, China, and Pakistan.
MIGA-from  eighty-five at the beginning of      Indicative of the widening list of companies
the year to 107 by June 30, 1993. Of these    availing themselves of MIGA's guarantees, the
twenty-two  new  members, fourteen  were   agency offered coverage to firms from four
countries from  Central and Eastern Europe    new countries: Belgium, Saudi Arabia, Spain.
and the Middle East. MIGA's subscribed cap-   and Switzerland. The project in Turkey involv-
ital increased to $948 million, and net income.   ing a Saudi Arabian investor was the first
before provisioning, was $26 million. MIGA    MIGA contract involving two countries that
assumed a total of $745 million in contingent   are not members of the OECD. In one signifi-
liabilities in respect of its guarantee program.    cant development, MIGA's discussions with
The guarantee prograin. Consistent with its   banking regulators in a number of countries
mandate, MIGA may only insure new invest-   has led to formal arrangements whereby banks
ments. including the expansion of existing in-   domiciled in six countries-Belgium. France,
vestments, privatizations, and financial re-   Japan, Spain, Sweden, and the United King-
structuring.                                  dom-are now exempted from provisioning for
For projects to qualify for MIGA's insur-   country risk if they have a MIGA guarantee.
ance, they must be registered with MIGA         Promotional and advisory services. In im-
before the investments are made or are irrevo-    plementing its second mandate. MIGA pro-
cably committed. MIGA can insure up to 90    vides promotional and advisory services to its
percent of the investment amount, subject to a    developing-member countries to support their
current limit of $50 million of coverage per   efforts to attract foreign direct investment.
project. Eligible investments include equity,   These services are provided both directly,
loans made or guaranteed by equity holders,   through the Policy and Advisory Services De-
and certain other forms of direct investment.   partment (PAS) and through the Foreign In-
MIGA may also insure loans made by noneq-    vestment Advisory Service (FIAS). The serv-
uity holders if the agency is also insuring other   ices that PAS provides include the organization
investments  in  the  borrowing  enterprise.   of investment-promotion conferences and other
MIGA's standard policy covers investments   promotional activities, executive-development



104   World Bank Activities, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID
programs, foreign-investment policy round-   investment environment in Mauritania, Para-
tables, institution-building assistance, and re-   guay. and Russia: development of proposals for
search. Through FIAS, a range of specialized    foreign investment-promotion agencies in Bang-
advisory assistance to governments is also pro-   ladesh and Russia. and of investment-promo-
vided.                                        tion strategies in China, Venezuela, and Viet
During fiscal 1993. MIGA organized a re-    Nam: assistance in revising investment codes in
gional investment-promotion  conference in    Mozambique and Zambia: advice on institu-
Botswana covering general investment oppor-   tional development (C6te d'lvoire and Mo-
tunities in Botswana itself, as well as regional   rocco) and a number of investment-policy is-
tourism-sector possibilities  in  neighboring    sues in Egypt, the Pacific islands. and the
Lesotho, Namibia. Swaziland, and Zambia.    United Arab Emirates. FIAS also conducted
Other promotional events included cosponsor-   seminars aimed at improving investment-pro-
ship of a mining-investment conference in    motion  capabilities  in  Bolivia, Tanzania.
Namibia, an investor-services workshop in    Uganda, Viet Nam. and Zimbabwe.
Uganda, and an investment mission to Guv-
ana. Another investment mission was held
during the September 1992 annual meetings to   Investment Disputes
promote investment opportunities in El Salva-   The International Centre for Settlement of
dor.                                          Investment Disputes (ICSID) is a separate
MIGA  conducted  executive-development   international organization established under
programs for business executives in Guyana,   the Convention on the Settlement of Invest-
Namibia, Swaziland, and Zambia, and, follow-    ment Disputes between States and Nationals of
ing up on a foreign investment-policy round-   Other States (the Convention) that was opened
table for sub-Saharan Africa arranged in fiscal   for signature in 1965 and entered into force the
1992, MIGA and FIAS organized three work-   following year.
shops (in Tanzania, Uganda, and Zimbabwe)       ICSID seeks to encourage greater flows of
for policy implementors in June 1993. In these   international investment by providing facilities
workshops. civil servants from  developing    for the conciliation and arbitration of disputes
countries that have successfully undertaken    between governments and foreign investors.
deregulation shared their experience on stream-    In addition. ICSID undertakes advisory. re-
lining regulatory procedures with their counter-   search. and publications activities in the area
parts in the three countries.                 of foreign-investment law.
MIGA's advisory assistance also included      During fiscal 1993. ICSID's membership
significant work on the legal framework for   continued to grow with the ratification of the
FDI in member states. MIGA has worked with   convention by Armenia, Azerbaijan. Belarus,
a number of countries as they have liberalized    China, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic. Geor-
the laws applying to foreign investments. Sev-   gia, Lithuania. the Federated States of Micro-
eral countries entered into bilateral treaties for   nesia. and Turkmenistan. As of June 30, 1993.
the protection and promotion of foreign invest-   109 countries had become members of ICSID;
ments. MIGA also concluded legal-protection    an additional fourteen countries had signed but
agreements with six member countries that will   not vet ratified the convention.
make it easier for MIGA to issue investment     During the same period, requests for arbitra-
guarantees.                                   tion were registered in two new  cases. In
Thirty-one advisory projects were com-    addition, one annulment decision was ren-
pleted by FIAS  in twenty-eight countries    dered, and three cases were amicably settled.
(many of them members of MIGA) during the    As of June 30. 1993. three cases were pending
year. of which approximately one third were in   before the centre.
Africa. one fourth were in Asia. and the re-    ICSID's publications include a semiannual law
mainder in Latin America and the Caribbean,   journal, "ICSID Review-Foreign Investment
Eastern Europe, and Middle East and North    Law Journal," and multivolume collections of
Africa. FIAS provides member governments   Investment Laws of the World and Investment
with advice on policy and institutional issues    Treaties. Two issues of the law journal and four
affecting FDI flows. Most of the advisory   releases of the investment laws and treaties
work, as in earlier years, was focused on    collections were published in fiscal 1993.
diagnostic studies and reviews of specific in-  Details of ICSID's activities during fiscal
vestment policies.                            1993 appear in its annual report, which is
Examples of advisory work undertaken dur-   published separately.
ing the year included diagnostic reviews of the



105
Section Six
1993 Regional Perspectives
Africa
Sub-Saharan Africa is in the midst of unprec-    -is estimated to have grown by 1.8 percent in
edented change-political. economic, and so-    calendar 1992. Although this growvth rate com-
cial. Although 1992 was not a good year for the     pares favorably with that which occurred in
region as a whole. countries that persisted in    1990, when GDP increased by 1.6 percent. it
their economic reforms fared better than the    represents no improvement over the average
rest, and even in those that did poorly, for    annual growth of 2.6 percent in 1986-90 and is
whatever reason, the seeds for more hopeful    below the region's population growth rate of 3
change were planted. All countries, neverthe-    percent. Moreover, if Nigeria were excluded
less, including the good performers. have a    (it grew by 4.8 percent in 1992), GDP growth
long distance to travel on the road toward          drops to just slightly more than I percent.
sustainable per capita growth with equity.            Other indicators of economic performance
The   region's  gross  domestic  product    were mixed; consumption per capita, invest-
(GDP)-excluding the Republic of South Africa    ment. and exports grew faster in 1992 than in
Table 6-1. Africa: 1991 Population and Per Capita GNP of Countries that Borrowed
during Fiscal Years 1991-93
Per capita                                       Per capita
Population'   GNPh                               Population'    GNpb
Country                  (thousands)  (US dollars)  Country                (thousands)  (US dollars)
Angola                      9,460         n.a.     Lesotho                    1.813         580
Benin                       4,886         380     Madagascar                 12,032         210
Botswana                    1,319       2.530     Malawi                      8,796        230
Burkina Faso                9.272         290     Mali                        8,707         280
Burundi                     5.653         210      Mauritania                 2,025         510
Cameroon                    11.881        850      Mauritius                  1,087       2.410
Cape Verde                    380         750      Mozambique                16,128          80
Central African Republic    3,086         390      Niger                      7.911         300
Chad                        5,826         210      Nigeria                   98.983         340
Comoros                       492         500      Rwanda                     7,125         270
Congo                       2.350       1,120      Sao Tome and Principe        118         400
C6te d'lvoire              12.360         690      Senegal                    7,625         720
Djibouti                      452        n.a.     Seychelles                    69        5.110
Equatorial Guinea             427         330     Sierra Leone               4,243          210
Ethiopia                   52,792         120      Sudan                     25,836        n.a.
Gabon                        1,168      3,780     Tanzaniac                  25,201         100
Gambia, The                   902         360     Togo                        3,773         410
Ghana                       15.336        400      Uganda                    16,899         170
Guinea                      5.880         460      Zaire                     38,631        n.a.
Guinea-Bissau               1,001         180      Zambia                     8,319        n.a.
Kenya                      25,006         340     Zimbabwe                   10,079         650
NOTE: The 1991 estimates of GNP per capita presented above are from the World Development Indicators" section of
World Development Report 1993.
n.a. Not available.
a. Estimates from mid 1991.
b. World Bank Atlas methodology, 1989-91 base period.
c. The GNP per capita refers to mainland Tanzania only.



106    1993 Regional Perspectives
1991, albeit from  a depressed level. Large          Four factors largely explain this economic
fiscal deficits (an average 11.4 percent of GDP)    performance: the worldwide recession, which
and high rates of inflation (an average 45 per-    resulted in sluggish world demand for the re-
cent, with rates for Angola. Sudan. and Zaire    gion's exports and depressed world commod-
exceeding 100 percent) continued throughout    ity prices; the drought in Eastern and Southern
the year. Despite an increase in the volume of    Africa; civil strife in parts of the region; and
exports, the external sector did not do well.    slippage in economic management, as well as a
largely because of unfavorable terms of trade,    further deterioration in the financial situation
which deteriorated by 6 percent. As a result, the    of a number of western and central African
region's current-account deficit widened  to    countries.
nearly 10 percent of GDP. Increased recourse         There were significant variations in country
to foreign savings was needed to meet the    economic outcomes. Ten Eastern and South-
financing needs caused by larger domestic in-    ern African countries were affected by the
vestment and consumption (some of it drought-    worst drought in memory. which caused the
related), which could not be covered by the    region's total cereals production to drop by
sluggish growth in domestic savings. As in    half in 1991-92. The countries hardest hit were
previous years. most countries could not fully     Kenya (GDP grew by just 1.8 percent in 1992),
service their external debt. Interest arrears    Lesotho (1.6 percent). Malawi (-7.7 percent),
continued to climb, reaching about $14 billion    Mozambique  (-1.4  percent). South  Africa
in 1992. or more than three times the level of    (-2.0 percent). Zambia (-10 percent). and
1987. Despite incidences of debt forgiveness    Zimbabwe  (-8.2  percent). The  effect of
and reschedulings. the region's debt stock         drought on food consumption would have been
changed little from  the  1991 level when it   even more serious had it not been for the large
amounted to  I I1 percent of GDP and 345    emergency food aid provided bv donors. Food
percent of exports. The annual debt-service    aid to Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Tanza-
ratio also remained high and unchanged at    nia, and Zambia amounted to about $500 mil-
about 28 percent.                                 lion during the drought period, representing
Table 6-2. Lending to Borrowers in Africa, by Sector, Fiscal Years 1984-93
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                             1984-88      1989      1990       1991       1992       1993
Agriculture and rural
development                        509.6      754.8      997.4     504.9      697.5      318.3
Development finance companies        188.7      311.6      127.6     138.8      419.9         -
Education                            108.3       88.2      350.7     265.9      402.9      417.4
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal                  34.0       31.2        -       300.0       48.5         -
Power                              130.1      138.4      230.0     155.0       76.0      356.0
Industry                              89.5       81.4      105.1      -         406.0      335.8
Nonproject                           358.5    1.019.0      271.6     832.6      895.0      414.2
Population, health, and nutrition     65.6       81.3      232.7     432.8      100.3      131.2
Public-sector management              51.3        -         45.6       5.7       76.7       20.6
Small-scale enterprises               17.4      270.0      130.0        -          -          -
Technical assistance                  69.9      144.6       56.0      81.9       88.0      131.8
Telecommunications                    29.4      103.3      225.0      12.8         -        89.1
Transportation                       382.4      248.7      543.6     309.5      242.8      474.5
Urban development                    111.2      414.0      360.4      98.3      222.6       61.2
Water supply and sewerage             61.8      238.2      257.2     256.0      297.4       67.2
Total                          2,207.7    3,924.7    3,932.9    3,394.2    3,973.6    2,817.3
Of which: IBRD                     828.2    1,560.6    1,147.0     662.9      738.4       47.0
IDA                    1,379.5    2,364.1    2,785.9    2,731.3    3,235.2    2,770.3
Number of operations                79         81         86        77         77         75
- Zero.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.



Africa    107
~~~~~~~~~~~~44                                                    I    '(    -   .. .,
Schoolgirls walk home along a street in Victoria, Se! chtelles. Expanding tihe role of wvomen in the African
region's econotmies has led to increased schiool enrollmnent for girls.
over one fourth the value of the region's cereal    which broke with past economic policies and
imports in a normal year.' Food aid was man-    was helped by unusuallv bountiful harvests,
aged, on the whole, by the recipient countries        registered a high rate of growth. Most coun-
themselves in a highly effective manner.              tries receiving assistance through the special
Several countries suffered also from  unfa-    program  of assistance (SPA) for low-income,
vorable world prices. Countries exporting pe-    debt-distressed  African  countries performed
troleum, coffee, cocoa, cotton, and copper    better than the region as a whole.2 Further-
were hurt more than  others. For example.    more, in a core group of fifteen countries that
Burundi's coffee export earnings dropped by           has implemented policy reforms successfully
30  percent  in  1992-despite  virtually  un-    over time, economic outcomes have been im-
changed volume. The drop in world cotton              pressive. All key performance indicators for
prices hurt the region's major cotton export-    this group have been better than those for the
ers-especially  the Sahelian  producers (see          entire region. On average. GDP grew 3.3 per-
Box 6-1). Despite the internal adjustment mea-    cent a year during  1991  and  1992-4  to 5
sures that were undertaken, a number of coun-         percent in the case of Benin, Burundi, The
tries experienced severe economic difficulties.
notably on the external side; in large countries
such as Cameroon and C6te d'Ivoire, GDP                The Bank contributed to this effort by helping mobilize
declined by 3.4 percent and 2.4 percent. re-           assistance. In addition, the Bank-through a restnicturing
spectively, while in Gabon, Kenya, and Sene-           Of existing  projects accelerations-financed s mports oan
gal, growth was modest. The combined effects           grains and agricultural inputs, agricultural credit. rehabil-
of external factors were so overwhelming that          itation of water-supply and power systems. and technical
contractionary effects-including a cut in so-          assistance.
cial expenditures-could  not be averted. At    2  The SPA, now' in its second nsteen donors have pledged
the  same  time, pass-through  reductions in           approximatelv $7 billion in cofinancing and coordinated
prices paid to producers of traditional exports        financing with $2.9 billion of IDA adjiustment credits to
have adversely affected producer incentives.           help cover the financing gaps of twenty-seven currently
Not al the cuntris of te regon perormed eligible suib-Saharan countries. As of Decentber 31. 1992.
Not all the countries of the region performed        SPA donors had allotted $5.3 billion-76 percent of their
poorly. Botswana and Mauritius continued to            total pledges-and had disbuirsed $2.5 billion, or47 percent
perform   well. Despite  civil strife. Sudan.          of the total allocations.



108   1993 Regional Perspectives
Box 6-1. Cotton Crisis in the Sahel
Cotton production in the Sahel is a success story  The crisis of the past two years has three
in search of a happy ending. From its introduc-    specific causes: the entry of Uzbekistan (which
tion in the early fifties, cotton quickly became the    traditionally supplied the Soviet Union) into the
main cash crop for the majority of peasants.    world market. with a supply of 1.25 million tons:
Cotton production witnessed large productivity    a 50 percent increase in the exports of Australia
increases through (a) the development and intro-    and Pakistan; and sustained large exports from
duction of new technologies (improved seeds and    the United States.
agronomic practices) that helped other agricul-  The response of the main Sahelian cotton pro-
tural crops, as well (especially cereals and    ducers to this crisis has been rapid (as it has been
groundnuts) and (b) the efforts of cotton compa-   in the coastal countries, particularly Benin). Pro-
nies that were given full autonomy to determine    ducer prices for seed cotton have been reduced in
production, research, marketing, and pricing pol-    Burkina Faso (by more than 15 percent), and
icies. At the international level, cotton was the    rigorous measures have been taken to reduce
last major crop to be caught in the generalized    ginning costs significantly and to improve mar-
drop of commodity prices in the 1980s.        keting efficiency further in all three countries.
The fall in the world market prices of cotton in    Further producer-price reductions are planned
1992-from 182 cents/kg in 1990 and 168 cents/kg    should world market prices remain at their de-
in 1991 to less than 130 cents/kg-has had a    pressed state. Governments have also responded
devastating effect on the major Sahelian produc-    by virtually eliminating all export taxes, signifi-
ers of that commodity (Burkina Faso, Chad, and    cantly reducing import duties on inputs. and
Mali): Foreign-exchange earnings have plummet-   soliciting external assistance to restore financial
ed: deficits have increased in the cotton sector    equilibrium to their cotton sectors. However, as
(estimated at a cumulative CFAF37 billion for the    these countries belong to a monetary zone with a
1992 and 1993 crop seasons-equivalent to about    common currency, they can maintain competi-
$150 million and representing a quarter of the    tiveness by relying only on internal adjustment
corresponding value of cotton exports from the    measures, which have their limitations: At cur-
three countries): public finances have become    rent world market prices translated into the com-
increasingly strained, as governments have not    mon currency, revenues are far from covering
only lost tax revenues but are also being called    variable costs. despite sustained attempts to in-
upon to provide support to their cotton sectors:   crease efficiency (although the situation varies by
and the only cash revenue of a large part of the    country).
population has come under downward pressure.
Gambia, Ghana. Mali, Nigeria, Tanzania, and    be the basis for the reestablishment of a central
Uganda. The efficiency of this core group, as    authority empowered to govern the country.
measured by export growth and the degree of        Nearly all the other countries of the region,
capacity utilization, improved significantly in   too, are in transition in one wav or another-
relation to other countries in the region. Ex-    from war to peace, from centralized political
ports have grown at a yearly rate of 5 percent    systems to pluralistic ones, from government-
(or nearly twice the rate for the region), and    controlled economic management and struc-
while the level of investment did not fully   tures to market economies. Two (Nigeria and
recover, the productivity of investment im-    South Africa) are of special interest because of
proved more than elsewhere in the region.    their weight. the difficulty of their transition,
Countries in this group have also improved their   and their ability to influence developments
fiscal situation by increasing revenues. Their   elsewhere.
financial imbalances (internal and external)       Nigeria is passing through a critical period in
have thus been reduced drastically, which, in   its complex transition to civilian rule. The
turn, has reduced inflationary pressures.        initial stages of electing state and local execu-
tives and legislative assemblies have been
Countries Facing Special Circumstances           completed, and the handover of power to an
In the past twelve months, international at-   elected president was still scheduled to have
tention has focused on Somalia. where resto-    been completed in August despite the cancel-
ration of peace and the establishment of a    lation of June's presidential election results. A
functioning government appears to be a pre-    Transitional Council. appointed  in January
requisite for addressing the urgent needs of the    1993. was charged with the task of reversing
country. An agreement signed in March 1993,   the considerable deterioration, since late 1990,
which provides for the formation of a transi-   in the country's economic and financial perfor-
tional national council. if implemented, could    mance and alleviating rising social tensions.



Africa   109
Growth in GDP slowed to about 4.5 percent in   ing from  rhetoric to action on the need for
1991-92. compared with an average 7.2 percent   family planning. Increasing agricultural pro-
over the preceding three years. Inflationary    ductivity has begun to reoccupy the center
pressures are mounting, mainly as a result of   stage it deserves. Although investment is still
expansionary fiscal policies that increased the    below the levels required to achieve sustain-
federal budget deficit to 10.6 percent of GDP in   able per capita growth, public-investment pro-
1992, and the naira is steadily depreciating. In    grams are increasingly  free of large-scale
response to the continuing depletion of exter-    projects of questionable merit. More countries
nal reserves and declining capital inflows, the    are willing  and  ready-having  progressed
authorities have replaced the interbank market    along the adjustment path-to join others in
for foreign exchange with an auction system.    efforts toward regional integration and harmo-
Despite completion of a debt and debt-service    nization of policies and regulations. Efforts to
reduction operation with its commercial credi-   strengthen institutional capacity-particularly
tors, Nigeria's external debt burden remains    the policy-analysis and economic-management
high, amounting to 95 percent of its GDP in   capabilities of governments-have been bol-
1992. In the same year, the debt-service ratio    stered through the creation of the Africa Ca-
was 37 percent. It is against this background    pacity Building Foundation. And while pov-
that the Transitional Council has been prepar-   erty remains pervasive, more countries are
ing a medium-term program of fiscal and struc-    giving attention to estimating, as a first step. its
tural reforms that could help mobilize interna-    extent and composition and to targeting poli-
tional support.                                cies and expenditures toward the poor and
In South Africa. constitutional negotiations    other vulnerable groups.
were resumed during the year, spurred by a       Based on developments in the first six
continued decline in economic growth, wide-    months of fiscal 1993, prospects exist for pos-
spread drought. escalating unemployment. and    itive. if modest, per capita income growth for
endemic violence. As the prospects improved    the region in 1993 or in 1994. Political transi-
for the lifting of financial sanctions. investor   tion is progressing in a number of countries.
interest in South Africa began to revive, al-   The drought seems to have ended. The decline
though civil strife remained a serious deter-   in commodity prices seems to have bottomed
rent. For its part, the Bank expanded its pro-    out. Still. the optimistic outlook calls for re-
gram  of economic and sector studies and    newed caution, as weather conditions and
capacity building, which aims to provide some    commodity prices are inherently uncertain.
of the analytical and technical tools the coun-    Even if the drought has ended, its effects may
try will need to revive the economy, improve    linger. For example, the inventory of seeds has
income distribution. and plan for long-term    to be rebuilt, and livestock herds have to be
economic restructuring. Technical studies and    brought to at least pre-drought levels. More-
papers on policy alternatives. aided by inputs   over, some of the government institutions
from a wide range of institutional sources in   emerging from the two-year process of political
South Africa, including numerous grassroots   transition are still fragile, and important polit-
organizations, have been prepared. In addi-   ical conflicts remain to be resolved.
tion, the Bank's Economic Development Insti-    Agriculture, the Critical Sector
tute has begun a three-year program of assis-
tance to South African universities to implement  Achieving the economic growth objective for
courses in economic and project management.   the region of at least 4 percent to 5 percent a
The Bank. with donor support, is also providing    year-as set forth in the Bank's long-term per-
technical help to South African institutions to   spective study-requires agricultural growth
carry out the country's first comprehensive pov-   rates of at least that amount. Agriculture still
erty assessment.                               accounts for about a third of the region's GDP,
and its role in economic transformation is cru-
Progress Made in Key Areas                     cial for its provision of investment capital,
Despite its many problems. the region is   foreign exchange, and labor to other sectors of
better situated now than it was a year ago in   the economy. Agricultural production is also
terms of the potential for change.             the most important source of the income
Although the economic parameters were not    needed to improve food security and reduce
generally favorable in 1992. progress continued    poverty. as most of the poor and food-insecure
in a number of key areas. Almost all economies    are rural people.
have been made more responsive to market
signals, although important rigidities remain.
While population growth has not yet abated, a   World Bank. 1989. Subh-Saharan Afri(a: From Crisis to
growing number of countries have been mov-      Suistaiiasible Growth. Washington, D.C.



110   1993 Regional Perspectives
During the period 1965-80. the region's ag-    ficiency. and cut costs in the late 1980s and
ricultural-value added, in constant prices, in-    early 1990s should do well, as in the past.
creased by only 1.8 percent annually. com-    Many African countries have extremely low
pared with a population growth rate of 2.7    production costs, relative proximity to Euro-
percent. The agricultural growth rate declined    pean markets, and special trade relations with
further, to 0.6 percent in the early 1980s, but    some European countries. It is possible. there-
recovered to 2.4 percent in 1986-89. Data on    fore, for African enterprises to capture enough
food production, trade, and aid show a still   of the projected expansion in world demand in
bigger improvement than value added for the    a low-price competitive environment to con-
sector as a whole: Food production rebounded    tribute markedly to agricultural growth.
strongly, arresting the decline in per capita      Use oj' appropriatte technologies. Most of
production after 1985, despite an acceleration    the region's agricultural growth over the past
of the population growth rate to 3.1 percent;   thirty years has come from the expansion of
the aggregate food imports of the region de-    cultivated area on which an increasing agricul-
clined from  II million tons in 1985 to 7.7   tural population has applied traditional farming
million tons in 1990: and food aid has been    methods. Notwithstanding the relatively re-
halved, falling from  4.8 million tons to 2.5    cent introduction of the T&V  system. the
million tons. The countries that have shown    knowledge-based revolution in agriculture, the
significant improvement in agriculture in the    basis of agricultural development elsewhere in
past five vears include Benin, Burkina Faso.    the world, has lagged behind in Africa (except
Ghana. Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Nigeria, and    in the case of cotton production, which wit-
Tanzania. On the whole, adjusting countries    nessed large increases in several countries).
have recorded higher agricultural growth than    Reasons include: (a) weak systems of agricul-
the rest.                                        tural research and extension and the related
The agriculture sector now receives more    problem  of insufficient budgetary appropria-
serious domestic policy attention and thus ben-    tions, (b) a tendency to discourage initiative at
efits from  better producer incentives, im-    the farm and enterprise levels by setting agri-
proved  rural  infrastructure. greater  rural    cultural-producer prices too low and by main-
credit, more sustained interest in the role of   taining overvalued domestic currencies: (c)
women, and increased recognition of the cru-    ill-conceived public agricultural projects that
cial importance of farming systems and envi-   actively discouraged autonomous farmer orga-
ronmental sustainability. Moreover, the suit-    nizations and cooperatives and farmer partici-
able technological messages delivered through    pation in their management: and (d) inappro-
the "training-and-visit" (T&V) extension sys-    priate  technical  assistance,  as  well  as
tem now used in thirty African countries have    inadequate aid coordination in the fields of
begun to produce results: Recent studies of the    agricultural research and extension.
experience in three countries (Burkina Faso,
Cote d'lvoire, and Kenya) indicate that the T&V    The Bank's Agricultural Strategy
system  has contributed to yield increases of      The Bank's agricultural strategy for Africa
between 15 percent to 100 percent, depending on    aims at creating the conditions that could. over
the crop.4 Against these achievements. however,   time, allow  the objectives of the long-term
have been setbacks resulting from drought. civil   perspective study for the sector to be ex-
disturbances, and poor economic policy. These    ceeded. It is derived from an analysis of past
setbacks, natural and man-made, underline the    performance, including policies and projects
fragility of agricultural development on the con-   that have and have not worked, the main
tinent, despite the recent progress.             constraints facing the sector, and success sto-
The main constraints to agricultural devel-   ries in African agriculture. It has five main
opment in the region include the demand and    elements:
price conditions for the region's exports. slow    * Creationi of an appropriate policy environ-
progress in introducing improved agricultural    nent fr private-sector farmning, aind agricul-
techniques, lack of coordination of policy ad-    tural marketing, processing, andi credit. The
vice from the donor community, and the insti-   aim is to allow profitability-of farming. agro-
tutional and other problems responsible for the    processing, marketing, and ancillary economic
less-than-satisfactory performance of agricul-
tural-investment projects.
World inar-kets andl prices. Although short-
term projections suggest virtually no improve-    In May 1993. a seminar of the executive board of the Bank
ment in world prices for most of the commod-      was convened to discuss the subject of the -T&V- man-
agement svstem of agriculturjal extension in Africa, which
ities exported by the region, those African       currently is helping to increase the produictivitv of some 25
agroindustries that restructured, increased ef-   million farm families.



Africa   111
Table 6-3. Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Africa
(millions of US dollars: fiscal years)
Nigeria         C6te d'Ivoire       Sudan            Total region
start              start             start             start
Item                     1993  1993 1989-93  1993 1993 1989-93 1993 1993 1989-93  1993  1993  1989-93
IBRD and IDA
commitments                    244  3,138         24   989         -    193          2,817  18,097
Undisbursed balance      2,721               447               253              13,659
Gross disbursements              250  1,694         45   846        62   465           2,620  13,282
Repayments                       309  1,265        174   703        10   58             952  4,234
Net disbursements               -58    429       -130   142         51   407           1,668  9,048
Interest and charges             270  1,281        161   760         7    40            794  4,080
Net transfer                   -328  -852        -291  -618         44   367            874  4,968
- Zero.
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
activities-to  be the force that drives their    The Bank's Strategy for the Region
development.
* Technological advancement at the farm             The Bank's operational program  for the re-
and enterprise level. Agricultural-research sys-    gion aims at the achievement of concrete prog-
tems need to be rehabilitated and refocused in    ress  toward  the  objectives-in  particular,
nearly every African country to make them           growth of 4 to 5 percent a year. preferably
more responsive to both farmers' needs and          more-of the  long-term  perspective  study.
the emerging  challenges facing  agriculture.    Progress of this magnitude, with priority atten-
These challenges include improving the quality    tion to poverty reduction and environmental
of African exports to match world demand and        sustainability, requires achieving  significant
managing land and water resources in a sus-    on-the-ground results and benefits in a number
tainable manner.                                    of areas such as investment, savings, produc-
* Developmenet oJfarnmers 'participation and      tivity, and human-resource development. Nec-
empowserment. This element embodies the             essary conditions include greater ownership of
widespread finding that active farmer partici-    programs by governments and constituencies,
pation in agricultural projects and policymak-    closer attention to the design and. in particular.
ing is an important condition of success.           the implementation of programs and projects,
* Developing physical and social infrastruc-    including those financed by the Bank: timely
ture, including roads and rural wsater supply,    availability of adequate financial resources.
education, and health facilities. To redress    including alleviation of the region's debt bur-
past urban bias, there needs to be a realloca-    den: proper coordination of all forms of exter-
tion of public-sector investments from the larg-    nal assistance: and active private-sector devel-
est cities to secondary towns and rural areas.      opment. Maximizing the impact of assistance
* Natural-resouice management and forest    calls for flexibility and quick-response capabil-
conservation. Natural-resource  management    ity on the part of the Bank, as well as for
requirements vary from  country to country.    channeling assistance to good performers that
Generally. whether in areas with substantial    can and do make the most productive use of it.
forest resources or in areas that are heavily       The already-established gradual shift by the
farmed, the problems reflect market failure:    Bank from adjustment operations to sector and
contributing factors are poverty and changes    project lending is expected to continue. with
in the environment brought on by droughts and       poverty reduction and capacity building re-
other phenomena. The incentive system  must    maining priority objectives of both lending and
be reformed in ways that encourage good nat-    economic and sector work.
ural-resource management practices.                    In all of these areas. the Bank expects to
This agricultural strategy has been discussed     continue to work closely with donors, bilateral
with representatives of twenty African coun-    and multilateral. especially under the auspices
tries and most major donor agencies, as well as    of the SPA. At the SPA  meeting in October
with many nongovernmental and academic in-    1992, donors unanimously agreed that SPA is
stitutions. The response has been generally    an extremely effective aid coordination mech-
favorable, and the degree of agreement on the       anism  and expressed their willingness to sup-
strategic priorities remarkable.                    port the next phase of SPA, covering the



112   1993 Regional Perspectives
period 1994-96. They agreed that SPA should   tory performance is still large. Continuing this
pursue its basic mandate of supporting policy    improvement is a top priority requiring action
reform  programs by continuing to provide    on two fronts: improving project qualitv at the
quick-disbursing balance of payments assis-    design stage and better supervision of imple-
tance. However, donors stressed that under    mentation. These are the objectives of an on-
SPA-3. a more robust supply response in the    going, detailed action program  that aims at
recipient countries was needed to accelerate    securing borrower ownership: building on ben-
growth rates and reduce poverty. This will   eficiary assessments; restructuring portfolios
require increasing the efficiency of public in-    where needed: preparing implementation-ac-
vestment programs  supported  by  donors.   tion plans for active projects: strengthening
There is a proposal under consideration to    auditing. local accounting, and procurement
improve donor financing of key sector invest-   functions among borrowers: and increasing the
ment programs in order to increase the effi-   involvement of the Bank's field offices. At the
ciencv of investment financing, reduce the    root of the implementation problem is gener-
costs involved in the present fragmentation of   ally the absence of capacity. There is a need
donor efforts, and to reinforce the impact of   for all donors to assure. in particular, full local
the policy reform  programs. While there is   participation in the identification and design of
general agreement on its objectives, the pro-    projects and programs and to rely less on
posal will be further revised to take into ac-   technical assistance that is often ill-conceived
count some clarifications recommended by do-    and managed. The Bank is actively pursuing
nors. SPA donors stressed that this initiative    these capacity-building initiatives.
not divert resources from SPA's central pur-     Improving project implementation requires.
pose which is the provision of balance of   above all, imaginative approaches. One such
payments support to countries that are imple-    approach is under way in Senegal. where
menting policy reforms. Under the leadership   twenty-five project directors responsible for
of the World Bank, the donors and the Bank    the execution of Bank-assisted projects have
are jointly developing a SPA-3 paper outlining    formed an informal association to improve
the objectives, priorities, and financing re-    project implementation. The group's work has
quirements for the next phase of SPA. 1994-    already produced encouraging results: Com-
96. This paper will be discussed at the SPA    munications among project entities have im-
donors' meeting in October 1993, at which time    proved, cross-fertilization of experience and
donors will be expected to make their pledges   ideas is taking place. and various joint studies
in support of SPA-3.                           are now under way. The association has also
The implementation of Bank projects in the    been influential in cutting through the bureauc-
region improved during the year, although the    racy in key ministries, while impressing on the
proportion of projects with less-than-satisfac-    Bank the need to expedite action at its end.



East Asia and Pacific   113
East Asia and Pacific
Although world growth rates in output and    more than one percentage point a year even as
trade slowed in the opening years of the cur-   the population was expanding at 2 percent a
rent decade, the East Asia and Pacific region    year: currently, only about 10 percent of the
has demonstrated  a remarkable  resilience,    population is estimated to be living below the
maintaining its impressive growth rates of the    poverty line.
1980s. In 1992, growth in gross domestic prod-      Progress has also been rapid in the social
uct (GDP) grew by 8.9 percent and in exports    indicators of development, in particular in
by 13.6 percent.                                  meeting basic needs in health. nutrition, and
That growth has been broadly shared. Over    education. Much of this progress is undoubt-
the past quarter of a century, average living    edly attributable to rapid growth of income.
standards have nearly quadrupled, and the    But most of the countries in the region have
region has made notable progress in social    also pursued deliberate policies to improve the
development and  in reducing  the "gender    quality of life and the accumulation of human
gap." Increasing prosperity has moved many    capital. Over the years the gender gap has also
people out of absolute poverty. The number of    narrowed in many areas of social development,
people below  the poverty line has fallen by    such as in life expectancy, infant mortality,
and school enrollment. Much remains to be
done, however, in reducing the gap further by
Table 64. East Asia and Pacific: 1991            improving the status of women and their legal
Population and Per Capita GNP of                 access to credit, property rights. and opportu-
Countries that Borrowed during Fiscal            nities for economic advancement.
Years 1991-93                                       If these trends were to be sustained. East
Per capita    Asia could become the first developing region
Population'    GNpb       to overcome poverty in the course of the next
Country               (thousands)  (US dollars)  generation. But that is not going to happen
China                  1,149,523       370       automatically. Most countries in the region,
Fiji_741                             1,930       therefore. are faced with a complex reform
Indonesia                181 305      610        agenda in the decades ahead for the continua-
Korea, Republic of        43.268     6,330       tion of poverty reduction and the sustainability
Lao People's                                     of growth.'
Democratic Republic      4,261       220         The agenda for most of the countries of the
Malaysia                  18,178     2,520       region-whether they be socialist economies in
Maldives                    221       460        transition, island economies, or middle-income
Mongolia                   2.250      n. a.      economies-cludes
Papua New Guinea           3,964      830          * Alleviationi of infrastriuctiural bottlenecks,
Philippines               62,868      730        *w hich comprise a major obstacle to growth. In
Solomon Islands             325       690        some countries, bottlenecks occur because in-
Thailand                  57,151     1.570       vestment in infrastructure has not kept pace
Vanuatu                      151     1.150       with growth. In others the cause is poor man-
Western Samoa               161       960        agement, inadequate maintenance, and im-
proper pricing practices. In every country the
NOTE: The 1991 estimates of GNP per capita presented  entities responsible for the provision of infra-
above are from the "World Development Indicators"  structure will have to focus on pricing actions
section of World Development Report 1993.        improved management, and clarity of perfor-
n.a. Not available.
a. Estimates from mid 1991.
b. World Bank Atlas methodology, 1989-91 base period.  World Bank. 1993. Sutstainiing Rapid Development ini Exist
Asia anid the Pacific. Washington, D.C.



114   1993 Regional Perspectives
mance. And, by virtue of institutional limita-    reform, privatization, and private-sector devel-
tions and the need for finance, the private    opment cut across all country groupings, how-
sector will be called upon to provide a large    ever.
amount of needed investment; that, in turn.         * Continued progress in social development,
will require improvements in legal and regula-    for a significant portion of the region's popu-
tory frameworks so as to make private partic-    lation lives just above the poverty line and
ipation more effective.                           could easily slip back. Continued focus on
* Reduction of adverse environmental im-    agricultural development is clearly important.
pacts, which have been caused by industrial-    So, too, is the need to maintain the emphasis
ization, population pressuires, and urbaniza-    on adequate and effective family-planning pro-
tion. Most countries  of the  region  have    grams and on the general provision of health
legislated environmental standards and have    care, including confronting the growing prob-
established institutions to oversee their imple-    lem of AIDS. The efficiency of all social ex-
mentation. Clearly, however, a number of    penditures, whether for health or education,
these institutions are weak and need strength-    will be critical. Placing greater emphasis on
ening. In addition, a number of broad issues    preventive, as against curative, measures for
that go beyond the formulation of standards    health care will be one such avenue.
must be addressed. The political will needed to     * Liberalization of thze various trade and
tackle environmental problems needs to be    investment regimes of the region to respond to
strengthened as do programs for correcting    the slowdown in the world economy, the grow-
price distortions that still cause inefficiencies.    ing protectionism  in industrial countries, and
* Reforms in the financial sector and issues    the concomitant interest in regional trading
of enterprise reformn, even in some of the more    arrangements. Although East Asian countries
advanced economies. The socialist economies,    have resisted the calls for the establishment of
generally speaking, face problems associated    an Asian trade bloc, concerns about growing
with the establishment of a truly functioning    regionalism elsewhere have accelerated activ-
banking system. The challenges of enterprise    ity on regional integration schemes among the
Table 6-5. Lending to Borrowers in East Asia and Pacific, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1984-93
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                             1984-88     1989       1990      1991       1992       1993
Agriculture and rural
development                       740.8      459.6      743.0    1,374.7     836.7    1,089.3
Development finance companies       160.7      764.0       65.0     150.0        -        457.0
Education                           321.5      170.3      434.4     592.0      474.1      478.9
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal                105.1         -        86.0        -       100.0      225.0
Power                             448.7      846.5      813.0     275.0    1,745.9      760.0
Industry                            160.8      421.0        3.0     511.0       82.7      250.0
Nonproject                          280.0      390.0      250.0     250.0       70.0      200.0
Population, health, and nutrition    56.7      165.6        -        164.0     129.6      200.4
Public-sector management               -          -         -        32.0        -         63.0
Small-scale enterprises             119.7      160.0        -       140.0        -          -
Technical assistance                 18.1         -         -        30.0       17.0      160.0
Telecommunications                    6.2       12.7      391.7        -       375.0      134.0
Transportation                      684.4      720.4      504.7     323.6    1,122.5    1,132.0
Urban development                   336.5         -        86.2     543.1      228.0      110.0
Water supply and sewerage            93.2         -       349.0     177.8      275.0      310.0
Total                          3,532.4    4,110.1    3,726.0   4,563.2    5,456.5    5,569.8
Of which: IBRD                   2,977.6    3,520.8    3,066.8   3,471.0    4,386.9    4,404.8
IDA                     554.7      589.3      659.2    1,092.2    1,069.6    1,165.0
Number of operations               39         39         36        39         46         45
- Zero.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.



East Asia and Pacific   115
A crowded riverside kampong in Jakar-ta. Itidonesiaz underscores thte need.for improved water, sanitationl, alid/
hvgiene serrices. Contraryv to popular perception, low-income economies domfinate tlhe Eaist Asia anrd Paciic-
region.
countries of the  Association  of Southeast          Not to be lost sight of amid the impressive
Asian Nations (ASEAN)-Brunei, Indonesia,    averages for the region is its tremendous diver-
Malaysia, the  Philippines, Singapore. and         sity. It includes the Republic of Korea, a
Thailand. Early in 1992. member states signed    country ready to graduate from the ranks of
an agreement on the Common Effective Pref-   those called "developing." as well as the Lao
erential Tariff scheme for the ASEAN  free-    People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) and
trade area that promises to reduce tariffs on all    Cambodia. which number among the world's
manufactured goods and processed agricul-    poorest. The  region  includes  China, the
tural products to the 0-to-5 percent range over    world's most populous country, and the Mar-
a fifteen-year period. Reductions will proceed     shall Islands and Kir-ibati. two of the least
on a fast track for fifteen product groups,    populous. It also includes rapidly growing Ma-
bringing tariffs to the new low level in seven to    laysia and Thailand. as well as the Philippines.
ten years. Although these initiatives for reduc-    where per capita incomes have stagnated for
ing trade barriers are welcome, it is important    more than a decade. Each country in the region
that they not be viewed as. or develop into,    must find its own way to deal with the chal-
exclusionary arrangements.                        lenges that confront it: for each country those
Continued vigilance in sustaining policy re-    challenges have a different degree of urgency
forms and redoubled efforts in mobilizing re-    and importance.
sources will be necessary for sustained devel-       The composition of the Bank borrowers in
opment of the region during the 1990s. Over    the region is changing rapidly as well. Despite
the past twenty-five years the region  has    the perception held by many that the region is
needed only about 1 percent of its GDP in    predominantly made up of market-oriented,
foreign savings to maintain its high rate of    middle-income economies, about 80 percent of
growth. For the 1990s these requirements are    the population lives in low-income socialist
projected to grow as high as 3 percent of GDP.    economies in transition (Cambodia, China.
A large part of these additional resource re-    Lao PDR, Mongolia, and Viet Nam), another
quirements could come from  within the Asia    15 percent lives in two large island economies
region and through market-oriented foreign    (Indonesia and the Philippines), whose per
private investment,                                capita GDP is barely above low-income classi-



116   1993 Regional Perspectives
fication. With the growing maturity of the    agencies from intrusion into day-to-day man-
Bank's middle-income borrowers (Korea, Ma-   agement.
laysia, and Thailand-which constitute only      The economic fortunes of Lao PDR and
slightly more than 5 percent of the region's    Mongolia, both active Bank borrowers, contin-
population), low-income countries dominate    ued to diverge. In the former, agricultural
the region. Although their performance has    output grew 8.7 percent, leading to a strong
been promising, the challenges facing them    overall GDP growth of 7.2 percent. up from 4
remain formidable.                            percent during the previous year. The sus-
Socialist Economies in Transition         tained growth in output was associated with a
Socialist Economies in Transition             smaller trade deficit, lower inflation of about 6
Some 1.3 billion people live in socialist econ-    percent bv the end of the year, and a stable
omies in East Asia, three times the population    exchange rate. Privatization of state-owned
in the states of the former Soviet Union (FSU)    enterprises continued, and new guidelines im-
and Eastern Europe. Excluding China, the    proved the openness of evaluation and bidding
East Asian population living in socialist econ-    procedures. Significant reforms are also under
omies exceeds the total population of Central   way to decentralize public administration.
and Eastern Europe (excluding the FSU).   banking, and fiscal policy. In Mongolia. GDP
China, Lao PDR, and Viet Nam have econom-   declined an estimated 7.6 percent in 1992.
ically outperformed their European compara-   following a 9.9 percent drop in 1991. The level
tors, while Cambodia and Mongolia, for dif-   of external trade has not begun to recover from
ferent reasons, face enormous obstacles in   the collapse of the Council for Mutual Eco-
sustaining reforms.                           nomic Assistance trade and payments system;
China recorded the region's strongest over-   as a result, industries are facing shortages of
all economic expansion in 1992-12 percent.   key imported inputs. Electricity outages-re-
In some provinces-mostly in those coastal   sulting from a lack of spare parts and intermit-
provinces that face the South China sea-    tent deliveries of petroleum products-are oc-
growth rates were at historically unprece-    curring.
dented levels (20 percent or above). Exports
increased about 18 percent. while imports rose    Slowdown Welcomed in Middle-income
an even faster 26 percent. Spurred on by    Economies
continued policy liberalization and returning   Although Korea. Malaysia, and Thailand
investor confidence, foreign direct investment   experienced slower GDP growth in 1992. they
flowed in at the record level of about $11   all welcomed the slowdown as a desirable
billion in 1992. double the amount registered in   correction  of earlier overheating. Growth
1991. With the acceleration of growth. infla-   slowed the most in Korea. where GDP growth
tionary pressures are increasing. Although av-   fell from 8.4 percent in 1991 to 4.7 percent in
erage retail prices in the country rose only    1992. Beginning in mid 1991. the Korean gov-
some 5.4 percent in 1992, the cost-of-living    ernment tried to curb domestic demand by
index in major cities rose by more than 13   restricting construction activities, reducing of-
percent. Bold programs for trade liberalization    ficial wage guidelines for large companies. and
and enterprise reforms have been developed    tightening its fiscal stance. Inflation fell to 6.2
that include efforts to introduce greater com-    percent in 1992 after rising to 9.3 percent in
petitiveness and better incentives for the pri-   1991. but growth slowed more than expected,
vate sector. Reforms in the financial sectors,   with fixed investment in construction and
the social security system, and housing are   equipment showing particular weakness. As
also under way.                               the domestic economy slowed, so did the
On the reform front, 1992 witnessed moves    growth of imports; because exports remained
to widen still further China's "open door" to    buoyant, the current-account deficit fell to
foreign direct investment, with particular ref-   about $4.6 billion.
erence to tertiary sectors such as commerce.    Malaysia's economic growth rate began to
insurance, and finance. The year also wit-   moderate during the second half of 1992, and
nessed considerable activity in some of the   for the period July 1992-June 1993, growth is
traditionally sensitive areas of enterprise re-   expected to cool off to a more moderate 7
form, including improvement of the legal/reg-    percent after averaging 8.9 percent over the
ulatory framework for shareholding enter-   previous five years. The signs of a slowdown
prises and promulgation of a new operating    could be seen in falling manufactures orders, a
mechanism for state-owned enterprises. The    soft property market, and declining export
mechanism defines a wide range of powers to   growth. Foreign direct investment has started
be exercised exclusively by enterprise manag-   to flatten out, partly in response to the slow-
ers, correspondingly excluding government   down in Japan's growth but also because of



East Asia and Pacific   117
Table 6-6. Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in East Asia and Pacific
(millions of US dollars; fiscal years)
China          Philippines      Indonesia         Total region
start            start            start             start
Item                        1993  1993 1989-93 1993 1993 1989-93 1993  1993 1989-93  1993  1993 1989-93
IBRD and IDA
commitments                    3.172 9,216      628  3,431        868 7.366         5,570  23.426
Undisbursed balance        6.168             2,075           5,150             15.467
Gross disbursements              1,575  6.419      673  2.420      1,167 6,215        4,071  18.394
Repayments                        221   744        336  1.513       735 2,950         2.592  11,288
Net disbursements                1,354 5.676       337   907        432  3.266        1.479  7,106
Interest and charges              314  1,168       326  1,496       860 3.801         1.992  9,274
Net transfer                     1.040 4,508        11  -589       -428  -535         -513 -2.168
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
greater competition from  China, Indonesia.    consecutive  year.  outpacing  world  trade
and Thailand. Privatization reforms are mov-    growth and. together with lower global interest
ing rapidly, as firms in power generation, water    rates and somewhat higher oil prices, contrib-
supply, public transport, telecommunications,    uting to a marked improvement in the current
and sewerage and toxic-waste collection and         account. The Philippines continued the tight
treatment have been put on the auction block.    fiscal and conservative monetary policies that
Thailand's economic slowdown, which be-    were put in place in 1991, and the presence of
gan in 1991. continued. Real GDP growth fell    macroeconomic stability has encouraged capi-
slightly to about 7.5 percent. down from the    tal reflows from  abroad, enabled reserves to
nearly double-digit rate of 1987-90. A slacken-    accumulate. and dampened inflation to the
ing of private investment, including foreign        single-digit level. The stringent stabilization
direct investment, was responsible for much of    measures have exacted a cost in economic
the  slowdown.  Export  growth  remained            activity, however, as GDP stagnated in 1992
strong, however, and import growth slowed.    after having fallen by I percent in 1991.
cutting the current-account deficit from about        Papua New Guinea experienced continued
8 percent of GDP in 1991 to about 6.5 percent    rapid growth in 1992, largely because of the
in 1992.                                            ongoing development of the country's oil and
nmineral wealth. The main policy challenge for
Island Economies, Large and Small                  the government is in how to allocate the in-
Geography imposes special constraints on         creased resources effectively among programs
the island economies of the region. The cost of    to help the rural poor and investments to
maintaining the quality of infrastructure and    increase  productivity  and  competitiveness.
the reach of social services is high, and the    while saving a portion of the revenues for when
administrative and management challenges in    they can be absorbed efficiently. The recently
achieving the right balance between decentral-    elected government is moving on a number of
ized decisionmaking and central control are    fronts to use the new  resources to promote
complex.                                            development.
Indonesia and the Philippines, the two large       The small Pacific island economies were
island economies of the region, were preoccu-    buffeted by bad weather. unfavorable prices
pied with stabilization programs during the    for commodity exports, and continued eco-
past year. In Indonesia, import growth decel-    nomic recession in their primary trading part-
erated as domestic demand was restrained for    ners during 1992. Despite these travails, Fiji.
a second consecutive year through contrac-    the largest of the small island economies. reg-
tionary monetary policy. Fiscal policy also    istered a 4.1 percent growth rate as sugar
supported efforts at restraining demand. As a    exports increased and manufactured exports
result, inflation was contained at 4.9 percent.    grew  modestly. Continued low  copra prices
Nonetheless, the Indonesian economy contin-    and stagnant tourism  affected the other is-
ued to perform  robustly in 1992. with nonoil   lands, whose growth performance was mixed
GDP growing at an estimated 7.7 percent and         over the year. Except for Fiji. these countries
overall GDP at 6.1 percent. Nonoil exports    receive substantial levels of concessional for-
grew  by more than 20 percent for a second          eign assistance that support large government



118   1993 Regional Perspectives
sectors and buffer the effects of external   financial and staff resources compared with the
shocks.                                       socialist economies in transition.
On the analytical side, the issues of socialist
The Bank's Strategy for the Region            transition. state-enterprise reform. banking
The direction of the region's lending pro-   systems, and safety nets are going to be de-
gram in fiscal 1993 and the underlying eco-    manding of Bank staff resources because few
nomic and sector work were guided by the key    successful models exist on which recommen-
challenges facing the region. Among the chal-   dations can be patterned.
lenges is the sustainability of development,    The Bank is also going to face the challenge
which requires that increased attention be paid    of absorbing reactivating countries-Cambo-
to environmental issues and the elimination of   dia and Viet Nam. The Bank will need to learn
infrastructure bottlenecks. Because the region    about them, and they will have to learn about
has the largest share (44 percent) of Bank   the Bank. Even in the more traditional borrow-
projects with potentially significant environ-   ing countries of the region-China, Indonesia,
mental impacts, a great deal of work has been    and the Philippines, for example-the strong
devoted to assessing possible environmental    movement toward decentralization and the
impacts and developing action plans to mitigate    Bank's need for liaison with, and a focus on,
those that might be adverse. Five freestanding    local authorities and local decisionmaking sys-
environment projects, with loan commitments   tems will pose new challenges.
totaling some $502 million, were approved dur-  Even the Bank's traditional nuts-and-bolts
ing the year.                                 activity-basic infrastructure financing-is tak-
Over the past three years Bank lending has   ing on an added dimension. The need for pri-
averaged about forty-three projects a vear, and    vate-sector participation and for establishing
the level of commitments has been about   regulatory frameworks is growing. So, too.
$5.2 billion (see Table 6-5). Only a few adjust-   is the need to ensure that appropriate and
ment operations have been designed for the    adequate environmental assessment and miti-
countries of the region, because East Asian    gation plans are prepared and implemented and
economies have been relativelv free from the   to increase beneficiary participation and con-
balance-of-payments crises that precipitate the    sult with the multitude of parties affected by
need for them.                                Bank-assisted operations. Finally. the continu-
In the near term, significant changes in coun-   ing need to reconcile growth and equity with
try composition and country weights in the    environmental considerations presents a fur-
Bank's overall program can be expected. Ko-   ther continuing challenge to the borrowing
rea, Malaysia, and Thailand are becoming rel-   countries of the region-and to the Bank.
atively less prominent in terms of the Bank's



South Asia    119
South Asia
A fifth of the world's population and nearly    accompanied by increasing fiscal and balance-
half of the world's poor (estimated at between      of-payments difficulties.
310 million and 560 million) live in the coun-         The Gulf crisis of 1991-92, coupled with
tries of the South Asia region.' During the    political upheavals in the Soviet Union, which
1980s. economic growth in the region averaged       sharply diminished traditional export markets,
5.2 percent a year, compared with 3.9 percent    brought into sharp focus major weaknesses in
among low-income countries (excluding India    India's development strategy of previous dec-
and China). However, population grew at 2.2    ades. Pakistan has thus far avoided a crisis, but
percent. and  governments have been  hard    its reserve position needs strengthening, and
pressed to meet ever-expanding needs. Near-    the government has yet to bring chronic fiscal
ing the middle of the decade. South Asia's    deficits under control. Bangladesh, Nepal, and
countries face many challenges in setting forth     Sri Lanka remain highly dependent on conces-
on a path of sustained development that can         sional funding to support public-investment
simultaneously stimulate growth, reduce pov-    programs and are hence vulnerable to external
erty, and protect the environment.                  shocks in an environment in which aggregate
aid is unlikely to expand and competition for
Regional Issues in Perspective                      scarce funds is becoming increasingly severe.
Growth in the South Asia region during the          These circumstances led governments to re-
1980s of 5 percent was significantly higher than    consider their existing  macroeconomic and
during 1965-80 (3.6 percent). Indeed. among         sectoral policies. Experience elsewhere sug-
regions, it was exceeded-albeit significantly    gests that sustained growth is essential for
so-only by that in East Asia and the Pacific.    poverty reduction  and  that macroeconomic
Nevertheless, because all countries (save for    stabilization and structural reforms are crucial
Sri Lanka) have population growth rates in    for growth. Governments in Bangladesh. In-
excess of 2 percent, 5 percent growth in GDP        dia, Nepal. Pakistan, and Sri Lanka all initi-
was not sufficient to affect greatly per capita    ated, renewed. or expanded economic-reform
incomes or to create enough jobs to go around       programs in the early 1990s. In 1992, those
for the growing numbers of people entering the      programs moved forward and, in some cases,
labor force. In addition, this rate of growth was    accelerated.7 However, reforms must be sup-
ported by institutions with the capacity to
implement and monitor development policies
and programs, by infrastructure that provides
Table 6-7. South Asia: 1991 Population              an environment that can generate supply re-
and Per Capita GNP of Countries that                sponses from  the private sector, by invest-
Borrowed during Fiscal Years 1991-93                ments in human resources, and by safety-net
Per capita    programs that help to mitigate the transitional
Populationa         GNPb         costs of adjustment and, more generally, en-
Country           (thousands)       (US dollars)    sure that basic living standards are met for all.
Bangladesh          110,564            220
India               866,499            330          1 The higher estimate is based on an international poverty
Nepal                19,401             180         line set at 531 per person per month, in 1985 constant
Pakistan            115,844            400           purchasing-power parity (PPP) prices. The lower count is
Sri Lanka            17,190            500           based on a poverty line of $23 per person per month, also
in 1985 constant PPP prices. The worldwide total of poor
NOTE: The 1991 estimates of GNP per capita presented  people using the high and low poverty lines is 1,138 million
above are from the "World Development Indicators"    and 644 million, respectively.
section of World Development Report 1993.            The fiscal years of the region's countries vary widely.
a. Estimates from mid 1991.                          Year-specific numbers in this section. therefore, corre-
b. World Bank Atlas methodology, 1989-91 base period.  spond roughly, unless otherwise indicated, to calendar
years.



120    1993 Regional Perspectives
Countries in the region have initiated or re-    deepening public-sector reforms and private-
newed efforts in each of these areas.             sector development. sharpening the effect of
The past year was distinguished by a slow       specific poverty-reduction efforts, ensuring the
but steady rate of economic recovery in all   environmental sustainability of development
countries except Pakistan. Sri Lanka was a    strategies. and improving project implementa-
strong performer, with a real rate of growth in   tion and aid-effectiveness. Significant progress
gross domestic product (GDP) in excess of 5    was made in a number of these areas over the
percent anticipated. Economic performance in    past year.
India also improved: Growth is estimated at 4
percent in 1992, after falling from 5.6 percent in    Improved Economic Management
1990 to 1.2 percent in 1991. The slowdown in        Most South Asian countries recognize that
Bangladesh's economic performance in the    restructuring the relative roles of the public
previous two years abated somewhat in 1992,    and private sectors is indispensable for sustain-
with growth estimated at about 4 percent;    able growth. Recent progress is most evident
Nepal's economy  continued  to grow  at a    in three areas: fiscal reforms, public-enterprise
steady (if unspectacular) rate of 4 percent; and    and regulatory reforms, and trade reforms. In
GDP growth in Pakistan is estimated to have    the public sector, the primary focus is on
declined to between 4 and 5 percent. Modera-    structural reforms to underpin medium-term
tion of growth in Pakistan was largely the    fiscal adjustment, particularly tax reform and
result of devastating floods in September 1992    expenditure reduction and restructuring. as
that caused extensive loss of life and damage to    well as promoting increased competitiveness
crops, infrastructure, and property.              of public enterprises through  privatization,
To achieve sustainable growth geared to    wider share ownership, removal of entry bar-
poverty  reduction, countries in the region    riers. and. where necessary. liquidation.
share a common and continuing agenda of             India and  Bangladesh  made  noteworthy
improved  economic  management  through    progress in deepening and  broadening  the
Table 6-8. Lending to Borrowers in South Asia, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1984-93
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average.
Sector                             198488      1989      1990       1991       1992       1993
Agriculture and rural
development                       942.4      976.8      668.0     773.0      336.1      480.7
Development finance companies       118.0      638.8      175.0       3.5       28.4       -
Education                            78.4      314.2      580.8     307.1      145.6      339.0
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal                386.4      590.0        -       735.2      330.0       12.0
Power                             923.5    1,147.0    1.012.3     200.0      730.0      960.0
Industry                            305.4      235.0      500.0     577.0        -         65.8
Nonproject                          128.0       62.5       94.4       7.0      655.2      403.5
Population, health, and nutrition    54.7      124.6      192.5     388.5      377.5      827.0
Public-sector management               -          -         -          -         -          -
Small-scale enterprises              33.3         -         -        71.0        -          -
Technical assistance                  8.4         -         -          -        25.0        -
Telecommunications                   93.4         -         -        57.0       55.0        -
Transportation                      333.7      416.4      184.0      178.9     306.0        -
Urban development                   239.8       41.5        -          -         -        120.0
Water supply and sewerage            87.0      125.0       89.9     306.6        -        208.2
Total                        3,732.4    4,671.8    3,496.9    3.604.8    2.988.8    3,416.2
Of which: IBRD                   2,261.5    2,884.3    1,725.5    1.540.1    1,348.0    1,145.0
IDA                    1,470.9    1,787.5    1,771.4   2.064.7    1,640.8    2,271.2
Number of operations               34         30         25        30         23         26
- Zero.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.



South Asia   121
7~~~
F`                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
C-Wr
Indian u omen w,ashing lauindry and dr-auaigkwater at a traditionail 'eIl.A.n iDA creditof $92 million. approved
in fiscal 199-3, sipports improved access to water in rural areas.
scope of adjustment and fiscal-reform  pro-        In all economies of South Asia a restruc-
grams in the past year. In India. the overall   tured and more efficient public sector is only
public-sector deficit declined from  121 percent    one component of the reform  agenda. For
of GDP in 1990 to an estimated 8 percent in    sustainable growth, a rejuvenated and dynamic
1992. A sizable part of the overall reduction    private sector must play a complementary role.
was reflected in a lower deficit of the central    Much remains to be done to improve the
government, which fell from  8.4 percent of    enabling environment for private-sector devel-
GDP in 1990 to 5.3 percent in 1992. It is    opment (by expanding infrastructure. particu-
expected to ease further, to 4.7 percent of   larly in rural areas, improving the business
GDP, by early 1994. Initially, India's public-    environment through deregulation and trade
investment program  suffered major cuts in    and exchange-rate reforms, and developing the
1990 and 1991 despite pressing requirements   financial sector, for instance) and to support
for public investments in human resources and    privatization efforts.
physical infrastructure. Early in 1993, how-       Significant progress was made during the
ever, the government introduced a budget that    past year in liberalizing the trade regime in a
calls for increased spending in the social sec-    number of countries. For example. India initi-
tors and improvements in their targeting and    ated important reforms that eliminated quanti-
sustainabi lity.                                 tative restrictions on all imports of capital and
By contrast. Bangladesh's fiscal-reform pro-    intermediate goods, simplif-ied the tariff struc-
gram  is strongest on the revenue side. Tax    ture, and reduced tariff rates for a wide range
reform  has led to an increase in government    of capital and intermediate goods. India is now
revenues from 8.8 percent of GDP in 1989 to an    moving rapidly towards closer integration with
estimated 11.5 percent in the past year. These    the world economy.
increases are mainly the result of the introduc-    In addition, governments have helped to
tion of a value-added tax (VAT) in 1991. which    develop a more hospitable environment for
replaced sales taxes on imports and a number    private-sector development by undertaking im-
of excise taxes on domestic production. By the    portant reforms  in  deregulation: Foreign-
end of June 1992. VAT revenues amounted to    exchange controls are being fully or partially
23 percent of total tax revenues,                lifted, and investment licensing is being elimi-



122   1993 Regional Perspectives
nated. The government of Nepal, for example,   the government established a social safety-net
introduced measures in mid 1992 to promote   instrument, the National Renewal Fund, in
private-sector participation in industry, and    February 1992 to provide compensation and
additional measures were introduced in Febru-   transitional support to displaced employees.
ary 1993 to improve further the economic
environment through, for instance, the unifica-    A Broader Strategy for Poverty Reduction
tion of the exchange rate. a move to full        Reduction of poverty and improvements in
convertibility of current-account goods-and-   living conditions are central development goals
services transactions, and the removal of a    of all the governments of the region. It is now
number of trade restrictions. India likewise    universally recognized that high and sustained
reunified its exchange rate in late February,    growth is necessary for poverty reduction.
while Bangladesh unified its official and sec-    However, the vast majority of South Asia's
ondary exchange markets in January of the    poor live in rural areas and depend on agricul-
previous year. In India. Pakistan, and Sri   ture for their livelihood. Development of a
Lanka. the removal of many restrictions on    sound growth strategy for the agriculture sec-
foreign direct and portfolio investments has   tor, therefore, is essential to the achievement
resulted in a significant increase in expressions    of sustained poverty reduction.
of investor interest (though increases in actual  Growth alone, however, is not sufficient.
flows have been modest, except in the case of   While South Asia's growth record has been
Pakistan. where portfolio and foreign direct    good over the past decade-and there is incon-
investment has increased substantially in re-   trovertible evidence that these high growth
cent years).                                   rates have resulted in rising per capita con-
The response by the private sector to these    sumption by the poor, especially in Pakistan
reforms has been particularly marked in Paki-   and India-the pace of improvements in social
stan and Sri Lanka. Private investment in Sri   indicators has not kept pace with increases in
Lanka rose from 7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 15    growth rates. With the exception of Sri Lanka,
percent in 1992 and from 7.7 percent to 9.4   life expectancy in South Asia is far shorter
percent of GDP over the same period in Paki-   than in East Asia. Of every ten children born.
stan. In Pakistan, private investment continues    at least one is expected to die before reaching
to account for 50 percent of total investment,   the age of one, and nearly half the children in
and its resilience is the primary reason why    the region do not finish primary school. The
Pakistan's growth and export performance has    status of women is a particular concern. Again.
remained buoyant despite high fiscal deficits    with the exception of Sri Lanka, women have
and domestic borrowing.                        significantly less education, more health prob-
All countries have embarked on public-   lems. lower life expectancy, and often work
enterprise reform and privatization programs,    many more hours than men.
albeit with varying degrees of success. Efforts  In recent years. South Asia's governments
at privatization are being pursued most aggres-    have paid more attention to policies and sec-
sively in Pakistan (the government's objective    toral reforms that encourage greater use of the
is to withdraw completely from all industrial    poor's most abundant asset: labor. Steps have
activities). Of the 103 manufacturing enter-    been taken in most countries to reorient the
prises offered for sale to the private sector, 69    pattern of public expenditures to better ad-
had already been sold by the end of 1992. Sri   dress the needs of the poor. The prominent
Lanka's privatization effort is also notewor-    place of women among the beneficiaries of
thy; twenty-two public enterprises have been    these initiatives reflects a growing and wel-
wholly or partially divested, divestiture of an-    come commitment to improving economic op-
other thirty-two is well advanced, and the    portunities for women. For example. the gov-
privatization of a further seventeen has been    ernment of Pakistan. with donor support, is
approved by the government. India still faces a    now putting in place a social-action plan that
daunting task; the public-enterprise sector ac-    establishes realistic development targets in the
counts for some 7 percent of GDP and employs    social sectors, while clearly identifying the
6 million workers (out of a total public-sector    policy and implementation reforms needed to
workforce of 19 million). Recent measures    achieve the country's human-resource devel-
have been taken to reduce the number of areas    opment and poverty-reduction goals. The plan,
reserved for the public sector, to facilitate the    designed to reverse years of neglect in, and
restructuring or closing of loss-making state-    accelerate the pace of, human-resource devel-
owned enterprises (SOEs), and to eliminate a    opment, emphasizes family planning and the
wide range of privileges in order to increase    education of girls.
competitive pressures on the SOEs that re-       Progress in India and Bangladesh in reducing
main. To facilitate the restructuring process,   poverty levels and improving social indicators



South Asia   123
Table 6-9. Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in South Asia
(millions of US dollars; fiscal years)
India            Pakistan         Bangladesh        Total region
start              start             start             start
Item                     1993  1993 1989-93 1993 1993 1989-93 1993 1993 1989-93  1993  1993 1989-93
IBRD and IDA
commitments                  2,678  11,896       429  3,445        172  1,847        3,416  18,419
Undisbursed balance     11,609              2,947             1,772             17,617
Gross disbursements            1,954 10,436       537  2,743        338  1,664         3,022  15,778
Repayments                       834  2,986       166   572          28    89          1,048  3,718
Net disbursements              1,120  7,450       370  2,171        310  1,575         1.974  12,060
Interest and charges             828  3,575       203   765          37   163          1,089  4,597
Net transfer                     292  3,875       167  1,406        273  1,412          885  7,463
NowE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
has been of particular note. This trend appears    to serve the needs of the truly poor. Innovative
to have slowed in the latter part of the 1980s,    programs have also been introduced to im-
however, reflecting the global economic slow-    prove poor children's access to primary edu-
down.                                               cation.
Future progress on poverty reduction de-
pends crucially on the success of ongoing            Coping with Environmental Challenges
reforms because of their implications for sus-         In all countries of the region, population
tained growth. The scope for poverty reduc-    pressure, poverty, and environmental degrada-
tion through redistribution of wealth is limited,    tion are intimately interconnected. Economic
particularly in economies such as Bangladesh        growth has been accompanied by air pollution
that historically have experienced low growth    and congestion, soil erosion, land degradation,
and low incomes. In India, initiatives are under    and deforestation. In addition, the environ-
way to improve smallholder productivity and          ment suffers from  incentive regimes that en-
increase rural off-farm employment opportuni-    courage intensive use of high-polluting energy,
ties: Rural credit institutions are being re-    inefficient use of surface and groundwater,
formed, rural infrastructure is being expanded,    underinvestment in sanitation and waste man-
the neglect of rainfed areas is being redressed,    agement, and inadequate protection of soils
and programs that provide research and exten-    and forests. Initiatives are under way in each
sion services are being strengthened. The re-    country of the region to correct the incentive
cent upturn in the growth of agricultural GDP,    regime and improve environmental regulations
combined with significantly lower rates of in-    and institutions. Environmental-action  plans
flation, has almost certainly improved the wel-    have been prepared or are under preparation in
fare levels of the rural poor. In Bangladesh, the    all countries of the region, and the Bank is
government took steps in 1992 to liberalize          assisting in the initial steps of putting in place
agricultural-input marketing and grain-trading       the required  institutions and policy frame-
arrangements, thereby markedly improving the    works and in helping ensure implementation of
availability of pesticides and fertilizers and    identified policies.
increasing incomes of smallholders.                    While much remains to be done, there have
Better access to basic services and safety-    been some notable, recent successes in com-
net programs is important as well: Budgetary         munity and agroforestry projects, water man-
measures were taken in 1992 in India to in-    agement, and industrial-pollution control in the
crease the level of central-government support    region. For example, concern for sustainable
for activities funded under its National Re-    development has already had a strong influ-
newal Fund, and special efforts are being made       ence on forestry activities in India. The gov-
to extend basic services to areas with low           ernment recognizes, in its National Forestry
coverage and high concentrations of vulnera-    Policy, that it is necessary to enlist the coop-
ble  groups  (women, the  poor, scheduled            eration of local populations and the private
castes, and tribes). Efforts are under way in    sector in forest protection, management, and
Bangladesh to rationalize existing social safety-    development and to encourage forest users and
net programs, which currently reach an esti-    farmers to take a more proactive role in forest
mated 5 million people, and better target them       development. Efforts are under way in Bang-



124   1993 Regional Perspectives
ladesh to increase the wood and other forest   overriding environmental or natural-resource
resources available to rural households: in    management goals. Lending for environmental
Nepal. a series of forestry projects is aimed at   sustainability and natural-resource manage-
involving local user groups in reforestation and    ment is expected to double in fiscal 1994.
improving the management of forestry re-        Adjustment lending rose $100 million over
sources to combat the effects of soil erosion;   the previous year's level: three new adjust-
and in Pakistan. the government has recently    ment operations were approved in the amount
approved a national conservation strategy that   of $900 million, accounting for 26 percent of
is being developed into a national environmen-   the lending volume. In India. the government's
tal-action plan.                              willingness to increase the pace of human-
resource development, pursue public-enter-
The Bank's Strategy for the Region            prise reforms, and further liberalize trade and
The World Bank is supporting government   adjustment regimes provided the basis of two
efforts that are laying the basis for faster,   adjustment operations, totaling $800 million.
sustained, and poverty-reducing growth while    Progress was made in strengthening country
improving environmental management. It does    portfolios, and efforts will be stepped up in
so through its lending and policy dialogue,   upcoming years. New measures were insti-
which includes support for structural and sec-   tuted early in the year to strengthen project
toral adjustment, development of an enabling    supervision and portfolio-performance moni-
environment for private-sector expansion, in-   toring, including the preparation of sectoral-
creased and better targeted government inter-   supervision  strategies, country-implementa-
ventions  in  human-resource  development,   tion reviews that focus on generic issues, as
strengthened environmental programs. and im-   well as on poorly performing projects, and an
provements in project implementation.         increased role in implementation support for
Bank lending to countries of the South Asia   the Bank's field offices. The Bank is working
region totaled $3,416.2 million, an increase of   closely with borrowers to ensure more timely
$427.4 million over the previous year. The    project start-ups and has adopted a more pro-
lending program stresses both short-term and    active stance toward project restructuring.
long-term measures to address the needs of the    cancellation, and closure. This stance, for ex-
poor. Overall, twelve operations (accounting    ample, has resulted in recent, large cancella-
for $1,075 million) contained specific mecha-   tions of IBRD operations (fifteen projects val-
nisms for reaching the poor and were included    ued at $850 million) and redeployment of IDA
in the program of targeted interventions. Seven    funds (eighteen projects valued at $379 million)
operations (accounting for $1,166 million) fo-   in India. The overall aim of these actions is to
cused on human-resource development, while   strengthen implementation performance and
three (accounting for $324.8 million), had   improve overall aid-effectiveness in the region.



Europe and Central Asia   125
Europe and Central Asia
Almost all the Bank's member countries of        For several countries, this process is now in
the region-from  Central and Eastern Europe    its third year. and the results have been un-
to Central Asia-have embarked on a path of    even. Some countries. such as Hungary, Po-
transformation that has few parallels in his-   land, and Czechoslovakia's successor repub-
tory. The reform  agenda being followed by    lics. which started earlier and benefited from
many countries in the region is wide, ranging    pre-World War II antecedents, or the Republic
from price and trade liberalization to privatiza-    of Slovenia. which intensified reforms started
tion and the imposition of financial discipline    under the former Yugoslavia and escaped rel-
on enterprises and to the creation of an envi-   atively unharmed from  the breakup of that
ronment conducive to new enterprise develop-    country, have advanced further in developing
ment. The diversity of country experience and    the legal and institutional frameworks needed
implementation capacity has already become    for a market economy. Their progress has been
evident. reflecting, among other things, the    furthered by continued. strong commitment to
historical and institutional heritage of each    the reform  process. Other countries are just
country, the duration of the reform effort, and    beginning, and their recent history includes no
political priorities.                            market-economy precedents.
The successor states of the former Soviet
Table 6-10. Europe and Central Asia:            Union (FSU) and the Baltic states have faced a
1991 Population and Per Capita GNP of           series of additional difficulties arising from the
Countries that Borrowed during Fiscal           dissolution of the union, which has immensely
Years 1991-93                                   complicated their efforts at stabilization and
transformation. Moreover, in a number of the
Population'     GNpba       newly independent states of the FSU, a con-
Country            (thousands)    (US dollars)    sensus has not vet emerged on the kind of role
that a market economv and private ownership
Albania               3,301          n.a.       should play in the effort to achieve higher
Armenia               3.418         2,150       living standards.
Culgaria              8,975         1.840         During fiscal 1993, eleven of the Soviet
Cyprus                  710         8.640       Union's successor states joined the Bank. as
Czech Republic         n.a.          na.        did Latvia and Lithuania (the Russian Federa-
Estonia               1.562         3,830       tion and Estonia had joined in June 1992). The
Hungary              10.344         2,720       Czech and Slovak republics became separate
Kyrgyzstan            4,453         1,550       Bank members on January 1. 1993, upon the
Laitvia               2.641         3,410       dissolution of the Czech and Slovak Federal
Lithuania             3,741         2.710       Republic. In February 1993. the Bank's exec-
Moldova               4.363         2.170       utive directors adopted resolutions terminating
Poland               38.245         1,790       the membership of the Socialist Federal Re-
Romania              22.974         1.390       public of Yugoslavia in the World Bank and
Russia              148.700         3.220       permitting each of the five successor republics
Sovak Republic         n.a.          n.a.       to become a member of the Bank Group's
Turkey               57,326         1,780       institutions provided that each fulfills the re-
Ukraine              52,031         2.340       quirements set out in the membership resolu-
NOTE: The 1991 estimates of GNP per capita presented    tion. Croatia and Slovenia became members of
above are from the "World Development Indicators"    the Bank on February 25. 1993.
section of World Development Report 1993.         To increase the Bank's ability to provide
n.a. Not available.                             assistance, resident missions were established
a. Estimates from mid 1991.                    in Kiev. Riga (to serve the Baltic states),
b. World Bank-Atlas methodology. 1989-91 base period.  Tashkent (to serve the Central Asian states of



126    1993 Regional Perspectives
Kyrgyzstan. Tadjikistan, Turkmenistan, and    half of total output; in Romania, the private-
Uzbekistan), Almaty  (Kazakhstan), Tirana    sector accounted for 25 percent of GDP in
(Albania), and Budapest (to focus on social-    1992, and more than 400.000 businesses have
sector issues in Central and Eastern Europe).    been created.
There are currently twelve Bank field offices       * Following the collapse of the Council for
serving the region.                               Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trading
system in 1990-91. exports to the rest of the
Transition to a Market Economy                    world expanded rapidly and became sufficient
The decline in output among the countries in   in 1992 (in the cases of Hungary and Poland) to
transition continued in 1992, although there    generate significant overall export growth (the
were significant differences in trends: While    first half of 1993 saw export earnings fall sig-
output declines accelerated in the Baltic states    nificantly, however, the result primarily of
and the republics of the FSU, in most other    lackluster economic performance in Western
countries declines moderated, and Poland ac-    Europe). Hard-currency exports in a number
tually experienced a gain in gross domestic    of other countries, including Czechoslovakia
product (GDP). (Countries experiencing civil   and Slovenia, increased rapidly.'
wars and  ethnic conflicts clearly  suffered        * Foreign direct investment has also in-
deeper declines unrelated to the economics of    creased, doubling in the case of Czechoslova-
transition.) After a cumulative reduction of    kia to about $1.2 billion in 1992. Cumulative
GDP in Central and Eastern Europe of about    foreign capital participation in Hungary is es-
25 percent since 1989, there were some encour-   timated at close to $5 billion.
aging signs of recovery:
* Private-sector activity grew rapidly (and
has not been fully captured in the official        All references to Czechoslovakia in this section are made
statistics): in Poland, about a half million new   with respect to eventd tha occrre  in c he Bank and
private businesses were created in 1991-92.        was succeeded by the Czech Republic and the Slovak
and the private sector now accounts for about      Republic on January 1, 1993.
Table 6-11. Lending to Borrowers in Europe and Central Asia, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1984-93
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                            1984-88     1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
Agriculture and rural
development                       253.5      490.0     263.0      100.0      155.0      525.4
Development finance companies       240.6      29.8      260.0      480.0        -          -
Education                            66.3        -        90.2      250.0        -         67.0
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal                 52.0      110.0        -       520.0      246.0      703.0
Power                             274.2        -       250.0      600.0      270.0        -
Industry                            149.0      344.5      66.0      330.0        -         55.0
Nonproject                           75.2        -       600.0    1,000.0      691.1    1,245.0
Population, health, and nutrition     -         75.0        -         -        280.0       91.0
Public-sector management              -          -          -         -        200.0      202.0
Small-scale enterprises              80.0        -          -         -         60.0        -
Technical assistance                  -          -          -        17.0        9.2      133.0
Telecommunications                   14.0        -          -       270.0        -         30.0
Transportation                      212.7      233.0     445.0      300.0        -        378.0
Urban development                    30.8        -          -         -        200.0     285.0
Water supply and sewerage            83.8       60.0     216.0        -         32.0      129.5
Total                         1,532.0    1,342.3    2,190.2    3,867.0    2,143.3    3,843.9
Of which: IBRD                  1,532.0    1,342.3    2,190.2    3,867.0    2,102.2    3,739.5
IDA                       -        _          _         _          41.1       104.4
Number of operations               14         10        14         19         14         30
- Zero.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.



Europe and Central Asia   127
'  a,                    ,-t                         -
-4 d
-~ ~~w .        ""N                    -w
Tlis petrocheo2ical complex at Most in tie Czech Repubtlic w old cone under the World Bank's project for an
Environmental Master Plan for Northern Bohemia. n which is untder preparation.
In 1992, inflation declined significantly in    clined by about 50 percent between 1990 and
Czechoslovakia. Hungary. and Poland to lev-    1992. Output declines in the smaller states of
els of 10 percent. 20 percent. and 43 percent,   the FSU have tended to exceed the average,
respectively. However, fiscal deficits widened    reflecting their greater dependence on inter-
in each country (primarily retlecting the con-    state trade, substantial terms-of-trade losses
tinued weakness of the enterprise sector).   (in the case of energy importers), and the loss
hampering the prospects for recovery. Infla-    of budgetary transfers from the previous So-
tion in Slovenia also dropped rapidly during    viet Union budget, which, in some cases. ex-
1992 to a monthly rate of 2 percent at the end of    ceeded 10 percent of domestic GDP.
the year. Inflation also declined in Bulgaria,     The increase in inflation in the ruble area to
although its level there, as well as in Albania    about 25 percent to 30 percent a month in early
and Romania, continues to undermine the effi-    1993 was caused primarily by massive credit
ciency of market pricing and the environment    expansion aimed at rescuing loss-making state
for investment.                                  enterprises and reducing the stock of interen-
In the countries of the FSU, output declines    terprise arrears. A lack of coordination be-
and inflation both accelerated in 1992 because    tween the Russian fiscal and central-bank au-
price liberalization was not accompanied by    thorities, with the latter reporting primarily to
any sustained reduction of financial transfers   the legislative branch of government, added to
to state enterprises. Real GDP declined by an    the difficulty of stabilization. Moreover. with
average of about 20 percent in 1992. A central   inflation outcomes in the ruble area dominated
factor underlying this large fall has been the    by the Russian Federation. there was little
breakdown in supply links among enterprises,   incentive for the other states using the ruble to
both within and across states. This breakdown    tighten financial policies unilaterally. The de-
reflected not only the collapse of the prior    preciation of the ruble exchange rate also com-
system  of centrally planned production and    plicated and delayed plans for extending price
trade but also the decline in efficiency of the    liberalization; measured at the market ex-
payments system and the acceleration of infla-    change rate, most energy and raw-material
tion. Interstate trade is estimated to have de-    prices were but a small fraction of international



128   1993 Regional Perspectives
prices, increasing the incentives for smuggling    most part, has involved foreign investors. Do-
and capital flight.                              mestic residents generally do not have the
The difficulties of coordinating financial pol-   financial resources to buv larger companies,
icies within the ruble area led several states to    and public offerings through the stock ex-
introduce, or at least initiate plans to intro-    change have proved lengthy and cumbersome.
duce. their own currencies. In mid 1992, the    Employee and management buy-outs have
Baltic states became the first to introduce their    been more successful, particularly for small
own currencies. Ukraine formally left the ruble    and medium  enterprises. In the majority of
area in November 1992, establishing the kar-   these cases, shares have been sold at substan-
bovanets. while Kyrgyzstan introduced the    tial discounts or have been given away: as a
som in May 1993. In Georgia. coupons were    result, these privatizations have generated ac-
issued in April 1993 as a first step toward    cusations of favoritism  and inequity. particu-
leaving the ruble area, and authorities intend to   larlv in the case of larger enterprises.
introduce the lari later in 1993.                  Privatization in Central Asia has progressed
at a slower pace than elsewhere in the region.
Privatization and Enterprise Reform              In Kyrgyzstan, however, some 2,300 enter-
The success of the various stabilization ef-    prises. mostly in the small-scale trade and
forts in the region will be critically dependent    services sector, and accounting for about 12
on the success of adjustment efforts at the    percent of total fixed assets, had been priva-
enterprise level. Success at this level requires    tized by January  1993. Azerbaijan recently
privatization and restructuring for the majority    adopted a comprehensive law that provides a
of state enterprises, financial-sector reform    sound basis for enacting privatization and en-
that creates the incentive for banks to act in a    terprise reform.
commercially rational manner. and the imposi-      In view  of the problems associated with
tion of hard budget constraints. Equally critical    case-by-case privatization. several countries
to success will be the removal of entry barriers    have adopted  innovative mass-privatization
and creation of new  private enterprises to    schemes that transfer ownership to the popu-
absorb the potentiallv large losses in emplov-    lation at large, for example. by issuing vouch-
ment that will inevitably result from enterprise    ers at a nominal fee that entitle citizens to
reform.' The Czech Republic, Hungary, Po-    purchase shares in state enterprises either di-
land, the Slovak Republic. and Slovenia have    rectly or through newly created investment
advanced furthest in creating new legal frame-    funds. Czechoslovakia pioneered this concept
works for private-sector activity through either    and  successfully  transferred  ownership  of
new  legislation or adaptation of earlier civil    more than 1.500 large state enterprises to its
and commercial codes.                            citizens during 1992. Due to their large hold-
Privatization of retail trade and small service    ings of shares (70 percent), voucher investment
establishments, using simple auction methods    funds will play a crucial role in the transforma-
or employee buyouts. has progressed furthest.   tion and corporate governance of privatized
In several countries (Czechoslovakia, Hun-    state enterprises.
gary. Poland), small-scale  privatization  of       Several  countries  subsequently  adopted
commerce and retail trade has essentially been    voucher-based, mass-privatization  schemes
completed. In Romania. small-scale privatiza-    (Lithuania. Romania, Russia) or are consider-
tion is well advanced. Over 2,000 assets have    ing their introduction (Kazakhstan, Poland,
been sold, 85 percent of the land has been    Slovenia). Lithuania has introduced vouchers
given back to former owners, and practically    that can be exchanged for a wide range of state
the entire housing stock is privately owned. In    assets, including housing. commercial estab-
the Russian  Federation, more than 30.000    lishments. and shares in large state enterprises.
small enterprises have been privatized. In Bul-    Vouchers have also been used extensively to
garia, restitution of property has been the main    buy real estate and small and medium-sized
avenue toward privatization. A few countries,    enterprises. However, the impact upon corpo-
such as Lithuania. have privatized a large part   rate governance following mass privatization is
of the housing stock, while Armenia has priva-    not yet clear.
tized about 90 percent of agricultural land.
Privatization of large state enterprises has
proven more difficult and controversial, and       U Unemployment rates in Bulgaria. Hungary. and Poland are
progress has generally fallen far short of ex-    estintated at between 13 percent and 15 percent of the
pectations. The traditional method, that of        labor force. While oflicially registered unemployment in
direct sales to a new owner (used in Hungary       most of the states of the FSU remained negligible in early
19913 (ess than I percent). the extent of overmanning
and Poland. for example). has resulted in rela-    among state enterprises there may be even greater than in
tively few successful transactions and. for the    Central and Eastern Europe.



Europe and Central Asia   129
Table 6-12. Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Europe
and Central Asia
(millions of US dollars: fiscal years)
FSU              Turkey              Poland           Total region
start             start               start              start
Item                     1993  1993  1989-93  1993  1993  1989-93  1993  1993 1989-93  1993  1993  1989-93
IBRD and IDA
commitments                 1.630  1,630         559   2,828       900  3,511         3,844  13.587
Undisbursed balance      -                 2.966               2,108              8,332
Gross disbursements            346   346           261   2,265       397   897          1,760   6,746
Repayments                      -      -           768   3.149        -      -          1,053   7.561
Net disbursements              346   346          -507   -884        397   897           708   -815
Interest and charges            -      -           465   2.495        54    72           750   4,220
Net transfer                   346   346          -972  -3,379       343   825           -42  -5,035
- Zero.
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. The FSU comprises the now independent republics of Armenia,
Azerbaijan. Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Krygyzstan. Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia. Tajikistan, Turkmen-
istan. Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
Country Cases-Poland, Russia, and                    ate product mixes. outdated technologies, and
Estonia                                              excessive payrolls at the beginning of the re-
form period, some firms controlled costs,
Pol(and. After two years of declining output    found export markets, and used their resources
(of almost 20 percent). economic conditions in    effectively. Improvement in these firms' short-
Poland improved during 1992. Despite a seri-    term performance appears to have been caused
ous drought that affected all of Central Europe.    by a significant hardening, since mid 1992. of
overall GDP growth in 1992 is estimated at I to      budget constraints facing SOEs. Moreover,
2 percent. Industrial production, driven by a    commercial banks have become increasingly
healthy expansion of exports. rose nearly 15    reluctant to finance lossmakers."'
percent above the December 1991 level. Aver-            Ruissiain Federation.  Russia's program  of
age inflation. which reached almost 600 per-    economic reform  was launched in early 1992
cent in 1990, declined to an annualized rate of    with the removal of formal controls on almost
30 percent in the second half of 1992. After    all prices and with the intention to support
incurring substantial reserve losses in 1991.    price liberalization by tight fiscal and monetary
Poland's external performance also improved:    policies aimed at restoring macroeconomic sta-
A trade surplus of about $600 million allowed        bility. Large macroeconomic imbalances con-
the country to strengthen its reserve position       tinued, however. and the second half of the
to a level equaling the cost of five months of    year saw rapid growth in expenditures (a major
imports.                                             factor was increased subsidies to SOEs). and
Private-sector activitv has been largelv re-    the consolidated government deficit for 1992
sponsible for the transformation and growth in       was about 30 percent of GDP, or roughly the
the economy. Initially concentrated in trade         same level as in  1991. Although  monetary
and  commerce, private-sector activity  has    policy was tightened at the beginning of the
since expanded to industry and construction.    year. the money supply expanded rapidly be-
where it accounts for over half and a third of    ginning in February and continuing throughout
output, respectively. This expansion consti-    the year. as the central bank helped finance the
tutes a positive response to the changes in the      widening budget deficit and expanded credit to
incentive environment and is indicative of the       commercial banks at well above the targeted
potential for growth in the Polish economy.          rate. Interest rates were highly negative in real
Despite the abatement of the recession, the        terms, and much of the credit was earmarked
overall financial position of the public-enter-
prise sector remains weak. Many enterprises            A S4'0 million commitment from the Bank to Poland,
are severely constrained by debts accumulated          approved in fiscal 1993. is suipporting the governments
in the past two years; others have been allowed        Enterprise and Bank RestructLiring and Pnvatization Pro-
to continue to operate for lack of a workable          gram. which, by tackling simultaneously the debt-over-
hang problem of SOEs and bank-portfolio problems. is
exit mechanism. While most state-owned en-             addressing the central constraint to the resumption of
terprises (SOEs) were plagued by inappropri-           sustained growth in Poland.



130    1993 Regional Perspectives
for specific sectors or regions. Lax fiscal and    eighteen months. working relationships in the
monetary  policy fueled continued inflation,    region have been established with fifteen new
which reached 1,500 percent for the year as    members. numerous new  resident missions
measured by the urban consumer price index.    have been opened, and several groundbreaking
Industrial production declined by about 20    projects have been prepared. Given the rapid
percent in 1992, while agricultural production,    pace of developments in the region, Bank
benefiting from  a good grain harvest. was    assistance has required flexible and innovative
down by only about 6 percent. Part of the    approaches. Lessons from  the experience of
decline in production was undoubtedly due to    individual countries have had to be synthe-
the disruption of interrepublic trade following    sized and shared quickly to improve the quality
the formal demise of the Soviet Union. The    of subsequent policy advice. Economic and
continued problems with interenterprise sup-    sector work have been closely linked to project
ply links was also a strong factor.               development. and both activities have empha-
Rapid privatization of most of the SOE sec-    sized the provision of technical assistance.
tor, as intended by the government, will be a    Identifying the appropriate lending vehicles to
monumental task. Important progress, how-    ensure complementarity between the incentive
ever, has been achieved in some areas of priva-    for reform  and financial assistance has pro-
tization. As part of a mass-privatization pro-    vided an ongoing challenge in a situation of
gram  (MPP), covering approximately 24,000    incomplete  price  liberalization, ambiguous
enterprises, vouchers were distributed to all    public/private ownership boundaries. and a
Russian citizens beginning in October 1992 and    fragile environment for property rights.
began to be actively traded in large cities.'' The  The  Bank's  operational  activities  are
MPP has already privatized some 600 medium        grounded  in a rapidly expanding stock of
and large firms through voucher auctions car-    economic and sector work. During fiscal 1993.
ried out in approximately 30 oblasts. Approxi-    comprehensive country economic memoranda
mately 350 enterprises were privatized in April    were completed, or are in the process of being
1993 alone, and more than 1,000 enterprises are    completed, for each new  member country.
awaiting privatization  through voucher auc-    Analysis of enterprise and financial-sector re-
tions. Privatization in Russia in its initial stage    form and their links, as well as assessments of
has largely involved corporatizing existing pub-    the priorities for private-sector development.
lic-sector companies and forcing them to oper-    have expanded rapidly. Issues of public fi-
ate in a commercial framework. Ownership    nance. involving fiscal decentralization and
transfers are leaving control of management    public-administration reform. are receiving in-
largely in the hands of existing managers and    creased scrutiny. Institutional-development ef-
employees. That, by itself, however, is an im-    forts in the region have been supported by
portant step since it reduces the number of    Institutional Development Fund grants to help
enterprises with access to central-bank re-    governments  (Albania,  Kazakhstan,  Kyr-
sources or finance from the budget.               gyzstan. Latvia, and Poland, for example) re-
Estonia. Among both the Baltic states and    orient their institutions in the direction of a
the republics of the FSU, Estonia's stabiliza-    market economy.
tion efforts have met with the most initial         A growing body of work on social protection
success. The introduction of the kroon. the    and human resources is under way for the
new currency, was backed bv tight fiscal and    states of the FSU, building in part on the stock
monetary policies. Both fiscal and current ac-    of expertise developed from  studies of Hun-
counts were in surplus in 1992, and interna-    gary. Poland, and Romania. Social-sector re-
tional reserves increased through the year.    views were completed for Kyrgyzstan. Russia.
Monthly inflation rates fell from 60 percent in    and Ukraine during the year. Sectoral work
the first quarter of 1992 to below 2 percent in    has focused on agriculture, energy, telecom-
February 1993. While output in 1992 was about    munications. and housing-areas where policy
40 percent below its level of 1989. there were    reforms are judged to be essential for bringing
signs of recovery in 1993 based on increased    forth an early supply response. Environmental
private-sector activity and rapid growth of    studies  have  been  launched  for Albania,
exports to Western Europe. Estonia's early    Belarus. and Ukraine, following the comple-
success in stabilization has provided a solid
basis for pursuing its program  of structural    '' Enterprises not in the MPP tend to be the largest enter-
transformation.                                     prises. and some of them are in single-enterprise towns.
Such enterprises tvpicallv provide a significant level of
The Bank's Strategy for the Region                  social services. Given their size and special circum-
stances, it is likely that privatization of these enterprises
The Bank is now  engaged in one of the            will take some time. and many of them may require
greatest efforts in its history. Over the past      significant restructuring before they can be privatized.



Europe and Central Asia  131
tion of such work for most East European    proved during the vear. One structural-adjust-
countries and Cyprus. The Bank is also ac-    ment loan, for $450 million. was approved.
tively participating in developing environmen-    Twenty-seven  other operations, involving
tal-action plans for the Baltic and Black seas    commitments of $3,074 million. were ap-
(as well as for the Danube river) and in a    proved. Included among their number were
program for the preservation of the Aral sea.    two freestanding environmental projects in
The Bank's initial lending instrument in Es-    Turkey that involve water supply and sanita-
tonia, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, and Rus-   tion and watershed rehabilitation. The latter
sia was the rehabilitation loan, in which quick-    project includes a reforestation element in
disbursing funds finance a positive list of   Eastern Anatolia and conservation of genetic
imports for the maintenance of critical elements   diversity; the conservation component is being
of production and infrastructure. Institution-    financed by a $5.1 million grant from  the
building assistance that provides technical as-   Global Environment Facility.
sistance in the key areas needed to facilitate   Portfolio performance.  Managing the re-
market reform was the vehicle for the Bank's   gion's portfolio presents an ongoing challenge.
first loans to Armenia and Ukraine. A major   given the complexity of the transition eff'ort
oil-sector project in Russia, which, with cofi-   and the unfamiliarity of the new Bank mem-
nancing with the European Bank for Recon-    bers in dealing with the Bank. Indispensable
struction and Development and official credit   technical-assistance and capacity-building oper-
agencies, provides about $1 billion ($610 mil-   ations. in particular, are inherently costly and
lion in World Bank funds) for the rehabilitation    complex to manage. In fiscal 1993, intensive
of oil-producing operations in western Siberia,   efforts in training new borrowers in procure-
is founded on a range of agreements, including    ment, disbursement, accounting, and auditing
reforms in the legal framework that would    procedures were initiated. The establishment of
make the sector more conducive to foreign    new resident missions in the region is intended.
investment. At peak production, the project is   in part. to strengthen substantially the Bank's
expected to provide about 33,000 tons per day    supervisory capacity. The frequency and in-
of incremental oil. generating $1.5 billion per   tensity of portfolio reviews were enhanced in a
year in revenue. In Moldova. a $26 million loan    number of countries, in some cases (Poland
is providing the government with urgently    and Turkey, for example), countrywide portfo-
needed resources to assist its recovery from    lios were reviewed jointly by the Bank and
drought. The elapsed time between project    officials from  the governments concerned.
preparation and approval was approximately    Nonetheless, regional supervisory costs. al-
six weeks.                                     ready the highest in the Bank. are expected to
Two sector-adjustment operations. involv-    grow as the size of the portfolio increases.
ing $320.0 million in Bank funds. were ap-



132    1993 Regional Perspectives
Latin America and the Caribbean
The Latin America and the Caribbean region    the region, with nearly 40 percent of regional
continued its economic progress during 1992.    GDP. Total output fell I percent in Brazil in
Growth in gross domestic product (GDP) was          1992. and inflation rose to more than 1,100
positive, as it was in 1991. and inflation con-    percent.
tinued to be moderate in most countries. How-         For the rest of the region, GDP growth was
ever, regional aggregates tend to be mislead-    4.6 percent. with per capita income growth of
ing. because they are heavily influenced by         2.7 percent, and for most countries, inflation
performance in Brazil. the largest country in    was in the range of 20 percent to 50 percent.
The sharp decline in inflation was particularly
noticeable in Argentina. Nicaragua. and Peru,
where only a few years ago annual inflation
Table 6-13. Latin America and the                  rates of more than  1,000 percent had been
Caribbean: 1991 Population and Per                 registered. By contrast, 1992 inflation rates in
Capita GNP of Countries that Borrowed              Argentina, Nicaragua. and Peru stood at 17
during Fiscal Years 1991-93                        percent, 20 percent. and 57 percent (down
i Per capita  from more than 7,000 percent in 1990). respec-
Population'    GNPb         tively. The rise in Argentina's wholesale price
Country               (thousands)   (US dollars)    index for 1992 was but 3 percent. The eco-
Argentina                32.713       2.790        nomic recovery of the region is even more
Barbados                   258        6.630        remarkable in the context of an international
Belize                     194        2.010        environment that has provided limited oppor-
Bolivia                   7,347         650       tunities for export growth. Total regional ex-
Brazil                  151,428       2,940        ports increased from  $122 billion in 1990 to
Chile                    13.386       2,160        only $126 billion in 1992 as a result of the
Colombia                 32,841       1,260        recession in the United States and other mar-
Costa Rica                3,064       1,850        ket economies.
Dominican Republic        7,197         940          Two major debt agreements between com-
Ecuador                  10,782       1,000        mercial banks and Argentina and Brazil further
El Salvador               5,278       1,080        signaled an end to the debt-crisis era."2 Both
Guatemala                 9.467         930        agreements include arrangements for the re-
Guyana                     802          430        structuring of old debts and the payment of
Haiti                     6.593         370        arrears. The two deals together cover about
Honduras                  5.259         580        $67 billion in principal and approximately $12
Jamaica                   2,376       1,380        billion in interest arrears. These two countries
Mexico                   837306       3.030        also reached agreements during 1992 with the
Nicaragua                 3.794         460        Paris Club to reschedule about $6.3 billion of
Panama                    2,466       2,130        official debts. In addition, Paraguay purchased
Paraguay                  4,397       1,270        most of its bank debt and agreed to eliminate
Peru                     21,945       1,070        arrears to bilateral creditors. while Bolivia and
St. Kills and Nevis         39        3,960        Guyana received support from the Debt-reduc-
Trinidad and Tobago       1.253       3,670        tion Facility for IDA-only Countries to repur-
Uruguay                   3,112       2,840        chase  outstanding  commercial-bank  debt.
Venezuela                19.787       2.730        Countries with remaining unresolved bilateral
and/or commercial-debt problems include Ec-
NOTE: The 1991 estimates of GNP per capita presented
above are from the ''World Development Indicators"
section of World Development Report 1993.
a. Estimates from mid 1991.
b. World Bank At/ais methodology, 1989-91 base period.  ' The agreement with Argentina has been signed. while the
one for Brazil is expected to be signed later in 1993.



Latin America and the Caribbean    133
uador, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Panama, and    inefficient, with limited resources and capacity
Peru. l                                           to provide social services, as indicated by poor
Strong stabilization and reform programs in    health indicators and low  literacy levels. A
the region. combined with relatively low inter-    poor resource-mobilization  effort produced
est rates in the United States, have provided an    low  overall savings rates and unsustainable
environment that has attracted a substantial    fiscal deficits. These deficits. combined with
inflow of capital to the more successful adjust-   large central-bank losses, caused inflation to
ing countries (Argentina. Colombia. Chile.    accelerate. Accumulated arrears to multilateral
Mexico. and Venezuela).'4 In 1992. this inflow    lenders led to a suspension of disbursements.
amounted to $57 billion, substantially higher       During 1991, tight monetary policies reduced
than the $40 billion of the year before. This   inflation from 60 percent to 10 percent and led
return capital, however, has posed economic-    to positive real interest rates, attracting a re-
management challenges in several countries.   turn flow  of private capital. Temporary tax
as governments have attempted to limit ex-    measures increased government revenues and.
change-rate appreciation and increases in do-    combined with expenditure reductions, led the
mestic money supplies.                            overall public-sector deficit to decline to I.2
The establishment of stable economies with    percent of GDP. During 1992, the government
low tariffs has laid the basis for renewed dis-    kept inflation and the public-sector deficit at
cussions on regional integration. The North    levels comparable with those of 1991. The
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)    government also cleared arrears to all multilat-
among Canada, Mexico. and the United States    eral lenders and received support for its stabi-
has been signed, but is still subject to legisla-    lization and economic and social-reform  pro-
tive ratification. Although full implementation    gram  in the form  of a standby arrangement
would occur over a fifteen-vear period, NAFTA     with the International Monetary Fund and a
is a major step towards free trade among these    $120 million loan from the Bank. The govern-
three countries. Chile. which has indicated its    ment's program includes the implementation of
interest in joining NAFTA, has also signed    comprehensive tax reform, restructuring of
bilateral trade agreements with Bolivia, Co-    public enterprises, tariff reform and the elimi-
lombia, Mexico, and Venezuela.                    nation of nontariff barriers, financial-sector
The MERCOSUR Agreement among Argen-    reforms to strengthen prudential norms and
tina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay, also con-    bank supervision and to restructure public
tinues to make progress. Almost all tariffs    banks, and measures to improve the delivery
within the MERCOSUR bloc would be elimi-    of social services. The government is also
nated by 1994. and a common external tariff    establishing, with Bank support, a social-in-
will be adopted later in 1993. In the Caribbean.    vestment fund aimed at addressing the needs of
members of the Caribbean Common Market    the most vulnerable rural poor.
(CARICOM) have agreed to reduce their ex-           In Ecuador. a program  of reform  is begin-
ternal tariff ceiling from 45 percent to 20 per-    ning to take root. The new  administration,
cent by 1998. Bolivia, Colombia. Ecuador. and    which took office in August 1992, immediately
Venezuela have also agreed to a free-trade    took steps to reduce a projected public-sector
arrangement to be enacted during the period    deficit of close to 7 percent of GDP for the
1992-95, along with a common external tariff    year. Relying primarily on a doubling of do-
to be adopted in 1995.                            mestic energy prices, expenditure reductions,
and a small tax increase. the government es-
Progress in Adjustment                            sentially eliminated the deficit on an anntial
Almost all countries in the region that were    basis. It also took steps to reduce the impact of
affected by the debt crisis have implemented or    these measures on the poor by holding con-
are implementing adjustment programs. Chile    stant public-transport prices, by limiting tariff
and Mexico, which have established a trend of    increases paid by smaller users of electricity.
positive per capita income growth with modest    and establishing a social-emergency fund. In
inflation, represent the clearest cases of suc-    addition, the government fully liberalized in-
cess. In some cases. new adjustment programs    terest rates. reduced reserve requirements,
have been launched in countries that previ-    and devalued the official exchange rate by 34
ously had lagged in their adjustment efforts
(Guatemala, Ecuador). In other cases. adjust-
ment programs are being extended and deep-    "' Peru. which had been in nonaccrual status with the World
ened (Argentina, Jamaica. Peru).                    Bank since Augitst 1987, cleared all arrears on Mtarch 18.
In Guateala, thegovernmet faced  fiscal 1991, with a paiyment of $867 million.
In Guatemala, the government faced a fiscal   I" Although Brazil is not an example of a 'successful
and balance-of-payments crisis when it took         adjusting country.' it has nonetheless attracted large
office in 1991. The public sector was generally     inflows of capital. amounting to $10 billion in 1992.



134    1993 Regional Perspectives
percent. These measures have provided a fis-    perpetuate rents without adding to broadly
cal cushion to allow time for more fundamental    based national prosperity.
structural measures to take place in the public      The economic mismanagement of the pre-
sector. The government also announced the    crisis and crisis years has taken a heavy toll on
closing and consolidation of several public-    public institutions. The general expansion of
sector agencies, began a program of privatiza-    the state in the years before 1982 resulted in a
tion and deregulation, and adopted a new and       proliferation of organizations and public activ-
comprehensive budget law to allow a further    ities that strained the managerial capacity of
rationalization of state activities.               governments.  While  publicly  administered
prices lagged behind inflation, public enter-
Post-Adjustment: A New Role for the                prises became increasingly dependent on gov-
Public Sector                                      enmient funds and politicized. In addition,
The years of crisis have had a profound          public-sector employment increased to offset
effect on people's attitude toward government    rising unemployment, and real salaries fell
and its institutions. There now exists a consen-    because of budget stringencies, resulting in a
sus on the need for reform and its direction-    loss of skilled manpower and an erosion of
smaller governments, more  open. market-    morale.
oriented economies, and increased attention to       Governments in the region have done well in
human  resources and  economic  inequities.    adopting and implementing programs of adjust-
Perhaps the greatest single change in people's    ment. all of which have included some mea-
attitude to economic-development philosophy        sures to reduce the role of the state in eco-
has been a recognition that there should be    nomic activities (Argentina, Chile. Mexico, for
limits to the extent of governmental interven-    example). However. major improvements in
tion, that public monopoly can be as distorting    the efficiency of government services as they
as private monopoly, and that indefinite pro-    affect the lives of ordinary people-particu-
tection of private enterprises through the erec-    larly the quality and coverage of social serv-
tion of high tariffs and nontariff barriers can    ices-have not followed. The capacity for for-
Table 6-14. Lending to Borrowers in Latin America and the Caribbean, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1984-93
(millions of us dollars)
Annual
average.
Sector                             1984-88     1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
Agriculture and rural
development                      1,170.8      161.8     855.7      941.5    1,569.6      390.0
Development finance companies       510.5    1,164.3      471.1      844.5      577.0      125.0
Education                            89.4       140.0        -       595.3      786.1      588.7
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal                 109.1      94.0         -       260.0      110.1       33.1
Power                             668.2      736.0      897.5        -          -        372.0
Industry                            226.7      860.0         -       200.0      300.0      250.0
Nonproject                          498.1      692.0    1,378.0      422.3      593.8    1,318.1
Population, health. and nutrition    54.5       99.0      389.2      337.3       47.5      374.0
Public-sector management               -       500.0      350.0      604.0      325.0      323.0
Small-scale enterprises              189.4      155.0      77.5        -          -           -
Technical assistance                 20.4       50.7       59.0       68.8       48.2       88.1
Telecommunications                    6.0       45.0         -          -         -           -
Transportation                      407.7       149.3    1.029.0     114.0      438.2    1,149.0
Urban development                   294.7      675.0      450.0      364.0      616.0      718.5
Water supply and sewerage            136.7     320.0        7.7      485.0      250.0      439.0
Total                          4,382.2    5,842.1    5,964.7    5,236.7    5,661.5    6,168.5
Of which: IBRD                   4,300.3    5,703.7    5,726.7    5,067.2    5,256.5    5,851.8
IDA                      81.9      138.4      238.0      169.5     405.0       316.7
Number of operations               43         43         41         44         45         50
- Zero.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.



Latin America and the Caribbean    135
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A wvorker collects beags of cornfiromn ani agricultural produce-distribution ceniter- in thec Bra il interior. The
Centers provide staples,for poor -trural commuznities.
mulating and implementing sectoral programs    Caribbean have spent a smaller proportion of
and projects is weak, particularly at the state    their gross national product on education and
and provincial-government level. Leaner gov-    health. If economic growth is to be embraced
ernments need to focus on areas that are    bv. and have meaning for. the people and if it is
uniquely best suited to the public sector: re-   to be sustained, countries of the region will
ducing poverty and providing social services,    have to target more education, health, and
protecting the environment, providing basic    nutrition programs toward the poor. Improve-
infrastructure, and ensuring justice and secur-    ments in efficiency and management of such
ity.                                             programs will be as necessary to their success
Making Up for the "Lost Decade"                  as increased revenues, to fund them.
An unfortunate consequence of economic
In most countries of the region the poor    crisis is that policymakers and economic man-
suffered inordinately during the years of crisis.    agers remain focused on short-term issues and
As growth slowed, poverty and unemployment    tend to neglect the fundamental questions re-
rose, and income distribution became increas-   lated to issues of sustainable development.
ingly skewed (see Box 6-2). In Mexico. for    Governments in the region are beginning to
instance, real wages declined 15 percent be-    realize that preventing the degradation of the
tween 19821 and 1992. Many countries did not    environment is not a matter of aesthetics;
make adequate efforts to collect needed reve-    rather, it is a fundamental aspect of sustainable
nues, social expenditures shrunk substantially,    development. The June 1992 United Nations
and social programs suffered because of the    Conference on Environment and Development
general decline in governmental implementa-    (the "Rio Conference") served to increase the
tion capacity. In Brazil and Argentina. a large    region's consciousness on these issues. Many
proportion of the increased revenues of the    countries are setting up environmental-protec-
states and provinces was spent on paying for a    tion agencies, and environmental issues are
higher public-sector wage bill rather than on    gradually  being integrated  into  investment
improving social services,                       projects: For example, Mexico is implement-
Compared with the developing countries of   ing a comprehensive program to contain pollu-
East Asia, those in Latin America and the    tion in Mexico City, and Brazil has begun to



136    1993 Regional Perspectives
Box 6-2. Trends in Income Distribution and Poverty
Latin America has historically been a region with   income distribution means that the share of in-
a high degree of income inequality relative to    come belonging to the rich is increasing, the
other regions in the world. A recent study under-   implication is they are better able to protect
taken by the Bank indicates that this continues to   themselves from the impact of a recession than
be true.' Overall, the bottom 20 percent of the    are the poor. To the extent that adjustment
population on the income-distribution scale re-    programs improve the prospects for stable and
ceived only 4 percent of total income in 1989. At    sustainable economic growth, they also act to
the same time, 32 percent of the region's popula-    reduce poverty, particularly in the long run. In
tion was living in poverty, up from 22 percent in   the past decade, countries that failed to imple-
1980.2 By the end of the 1980s. the incidence of    ment needed economic reforms effectively expe-
poverty was higher in the cities than in the    rienced the sharpest rise in poverty (Brazil and
countryside-a reversal of the situation of ten    Peru, for example).
years earlier. It is estimated that at the end of the  An analysis of income inequality for individu-
decade, 69 million poor people lived in urban    als in the labor market shows that, on average.
areas as opposed to 64 million poor who lived in    differences in individual educational levels ac-
rural areas. However, the probability of being    count for approximately 25 percent of total ine-
poor is higher for people living in rural areas.  quality. In nineteen of twenty cases examined,
Most of the region's poverty is located in a    education demonstrates the highest marginal con-
distinct set of countries. In 1989, more than 44    tribution to total income inequality among the
percent of the region's poor lived in Brazil alone,   labor force. Lack of educational attainment is the
although that country was home to only one third    factor most associated with the probability of
of the region's population. Mexico and Peru had    belonging to the bottom 20 percent of the income
II percent and 9 percent of the poor, respec-    scale. The strong relationship between education
tively, while an additional 19 percent lived in a    differentials as a source of income inequality has
group of relatively small countries consisting of   important policy implications. Given that labor is
Bolivia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hondu-    the principal asset of the poor, improvements in
ras, and Nicaragua.                            the provision and quality of education represent a
Over the decade of the 1980s, rapidly growing    key mechanism for reducing overall inequality
countries tended to show reductions in income    and lowering the number of people living in
inequality and poverty levels (Colombia, Costa    poverty.
Rica, Uruguay). Conversely, countries with de-
clining per capita incomes had worsening income
distribution and poverty levels (Argentina. Bra-  World Bank. 1993. 'Poverty and Income Distribution
zil, Panama, Venezuela). Similarly, during the   in Latin America: The Story of the 1980s." Technical
business cycle, income-distribution becomes in-  Department. Latin America and the Caribbean.
creasingly skewed, and levels of poverty rise    2 Poverty is defined here as a situation in which the
during a recession, while the opposite occurs    income of an individual is less than $60 a month in 1985
during a period of recovery. Since a worsening of  purchasing-power parity (PPP) United States dollars.
implement a program  to protect its tropical    nances, inadequate cost recovery, and the
forests. However. much more needs to be    poor financial state of infrastructure enter-
done in using prices, policies, institutions. and    prises. These factors, together with the steady
controls to manage and conserve natural re-    erosion during much of the 1980s of manage-
sources.                                           ment skills in many public enterprises and a
During the 1980s. there was a sharp drop in    politicization of enterprise policies and deci-
investments in infrastructure in the region. In a    sions, threaten to constrain future growth and
number of countries there was disinvestment    development. The constraints facing the power
in infrastructure-especially  in the form  of    and  transportation  sectors are  particularly
inadequate maintenance and erosion in cover-    worrisome, and their investment requirements
age and reliability, notably in the power. roads.    are large-in electric power alone. the region
water supply, and telecommunications sectors.    should invest $7 billion to $13 billion a year
Current infrastructure deficiencies are high-    during the next eight years to keep from falling
18 percent of the region's population has no    further behind. The capacity of public organi-
access to public water supply. 42 percent has    zations to mobilize funds and execute projects
no sanitation facilities, some 30 percent lacks    of such magnitude is limited. although greater
electricity, and about 45 percent of the roads    reliance on the publicly regulated private sec-
have been so poorly maintained as to require    tor for the provision of these services may help
reconstruction or rehabilitation.                  to overcome these public-sector limitations.
There are several reasons for these deficien-      A  few  countries, Chile and Mexico, for
cies. chief among which are weak public fi-    example, have made significant progress in



Latin America and the Caribbean    137
Table 6-15. Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Latin America
and the Caribbean
(millions of US dollars: fiscal years)
Brazil            Mexico          Argentina          Total region
start              start             start             start
Item                     1993  1993  1989-93 1993 1993 1989-93 1993 1993 1989-93  1993   1993  1989-93
IBRD and IDA
commitments                   819  4,848       1.154  9.363     1,960  3.899          6.169  28.874
Undisbursed balance     5.039              3.825             1.433              16.340
Gross disbursements             550  3.794       1.201  8,926     1,427  2,871          5.164  23.008
Repayments                     1.255  5.784       993  4,228        337  1,451          4.396  17,753
Net disbursements              -705  - 1,990      208  4.698      1,090  1,420           769   5,254
Interest and charges            607  3.310        922  3.819        207  1.007          3,119  13,239
Net transfer                 -1,312  -5,300      -714   879         883   413          -2,350  -7.985
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
improving public services. Argentina is suc-    in Economic Development. which includes Ja-
cessfully undertaking major reforms of its pub-    maica. Guyana. and other Caribbean coun-
lic sector.                                          tries.
The Bank's Strategy for the Region          Overall, the share of adjustment lending to
The Bank's Strategy for the Region                   the countries of the region is declining, and the
Most of the larger countries in the region are    lending program  is increasingly emphasizing
well advanced in the initial phase of their eco-    loans for poverty reduction, improvements in
nomic adjustment. For them, the basic issue of    social-sector activities, protection of the envi-
the future is the strengthening of the institu-    ronment, and private-sector development. For
tional capacity for macroeconomic management    example, it is expected that during fiscal 1993-
in key sectors such as human resources and the       95, human-resource and poverty-oriented lend-
environment, and in state and local govern-    ing will account for more than 30 percent of
ments. With the revival of private capital flows,    project approvals, about double the percentage
the Bank's accent today in the larger countries      reached during fiscal 1987-90.
of the region is less on resource transfers and         The issues of quality and implementation are
more on  institutional development, human-    central to the operations of the Bank in the
resource development. the environment, and           region. Multiple project objectives, excessive
natural-resource management.                         project complexity, and  inadequate institu-
In the IDA-recipient countries of the region,    tional and fiscal capacity in borrowing coun-
and  in  some other countries in the  initial    tries have adversely affected the implementa-
phases of reform and reconstruction, resource    tion of some projects. During the past year. a
transfers, within the context of suitable eco-    concerted effort was made to restructure the
nomic management, remain a basic concern of    portfolio of projects in Argentina, Brazil, and
the Bank. In these countries, the Bank's activ-    Colombia. This effort will continue, as neces-
ities are coordinated in the context of consul-    sary. The design of projects is being simplified.
tative groups and other mechanisms to mobi-    and project quality is being improved through
lize external assistance. In fiscal 1993, the        training of Bank staff. as well as through im-
Bank chaired consultative group meetings for    proved feedback from, and improved dialogue
Bolivia, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Peru. as    with. borrowers.
well as the Caribbean Group for Cooperation



138   1993 Regional Perspectives
Middle East and Norlh Africa
As the Gulf crisis began to unfold in late       Where growth performance was less impres-
1991, all countries of the Middle East and    sive, the cause was rarely directly related to
North Africa region found themselves econom-    the Gulf crisis. Morocco's 3 percent decline in
ically jeopardized: most, however, managed to    overall GDP in 1992. for example, was the
perform better in 1992 than had been at first   result of a severe drought that slashed agricul-
anticipated (see Table 6-17). Jordan's gross    tural output. Algeria's economic crisis has
domestic product (GDP). for example, regis-   resulted from  a severe shortage of foreign
tered an unexpected increase of almost 12    exchange; an inability to import enough inter-
percent, as returning migrants-although ini-    mediate and capital goods has mired the econ-
tially swelling the ranks of the unemployed-    omy into a situation of low or negative growth
brought with them enough savings to generate    over the past several years and has resulted in
a housing-construction boom. This boom  is   an increase in unemployment to 20 percent of
unsustainable, however, and the prospects for    the labor force. Egypt's slow growth reflects
both GDP growth and employment generation    continued weak investment performance by
are not promising.                              the private sector and the low productivity of
Several other countries also experienced    public investment. In Yemen. the effects of the
high rates of GDP growth. In Iran and Leba-    Gulf crisis-returning migrants and reduced
non, continued rehabilitation of economic in-   inflows of external resources-are still ham-
frastructure and increased utilization of capac-    pering economic performance.
ity were important factors, while in Tunisia,      Despite the disruptions caused by the Gulf
agriculture continued to perform strongly, and    crisis, economic reform  remains high on the
tourism recovered quickly.                       agenda of most countries. Morocco and Tuni-
sia continue to lead the way. Disciplined fiscal
and monetary policies have resulted in further
Table 6-16. Middle East and North               declines in inflation, to about 6 percent, in both
Africa: 1991 Population and Per Capita          countries: low levels of inflation. together with
GNP of Countries that Borrowed during           further steady progress on structural reforms,
Fiscal Years 1991-93                            have resulted in increased foreign direct in-
Per capita   vestment in both countries, the most convinc-
Populationa      GNP"        ing evidence of the strength of a government's
Country           (thousands)    (US dollars)    program.
Algeria             25,680          1,980         Elsewhere in the region, the depth and
Egypt               53.602          610         breadth of economic reform are varied:
Iran, Islamic                                     * Iran, for example, has aggressively pur-
Republic of       57,727          2,170       sued unification of the exchange rate, major
Jordanc              3 ,664         1,050       reductions of tariffs, and widespread removal
Lerdanon             3,664          n.a50       of import quotas. However, expansion of
Lebanon              3,708           na.        credit to nonfinancial public enterprises and
Tunisia              8,237          1.500       the private sector, combined with depreciation
Yemen               12,544           520        of the exchange rate and decontrol of prices.
pushed inflation up to 20 percent in both 1991
NOTE: The 1991 estimates of GNP per capita presented    and 1992.
above are from the "World Development Indicators"  * Egypt has stayed the course with its ad-
section of World Development Report 1993.       justment program and is now tackling the al-
n.a. Not available.
n'a. Estimates    .                             ways difficult task of public-enterprise reform
a. EstWmates from mid 1991.                     and privatization.
b. World Bank Alias methodology. 1989-91 base period.  an Stabilization remains the priority in Jordan
c. Estimates refer to East Bank only.           and, to a lesser extent, Lebanon. where the



Middle East and North Africa    139
A
T14'o workers fromn the governmnent famidv-planning office in Turnzs make thieir rouinds. Familv-plannintg
programns are ii'ell adv-anced in Tunisia, untlike elsewh-lere in the region.
urgency lies in reconstruction and rehabilita-    sharp surge in imports, causing the current-
tion of the economy. Although the fiscal deficit    account deficit to deteriorate further.
in Jordan fell from 18 percent of GDP in 1991 to     . The process of reform  has experienced
6 percent in 1992, this reflected exceptional    most difficulty in Algeria and Yemen. In the
circumstances,  and  further  measures  to    former country, progress has been slow be-
achieve a permnanent reduction in the def-icit    cause of changes in government leadership and
are necessary. Lebanon also saw  its fiscal    continuing social tensions, exacerbated by a
deficit decline, but at 13 percent of GDP, it still    heavy debt-service burden. In Yemen. the
remains high. At the same time, the real appre-    economic situation has deteriorated, with mac-
ciation of the Lebanese pound has led to a    roeconomic imbalances at the time of unifica-
tion exacerbated by the Gulf crisis. The gov-
ernment has adopted a number of measures to
Table 6-17. Recent Economic                       ease these problems, but political commitment
Performance in the Middle East and                to reform is yet to be confirmed.
North Africa, Selected Countries                                 
(percentage rate of growth in real GDP)           DvlpetIse
1992         The eight countries in which the Bank is
Country           1990     1991     (estimate)    most active are characterized by surpluses of
Algeria          -1.3       0.2         2.9       labor. For them, labor is the key to develop-
Egypt              2.5      2.3         0.3       ment. Endowed with a large pool of skilled,
Iran, Islamic                                     relatively inexpensive manpower and a dy-
Republic of     10.7      8.1         7.0       namic and entrepreneurial trading class, and
Jordan             1.7      1.6         11.7      located on the doorstep of the huge European
Morocco            3.7      5.1        -3.0       market, these countries, given the right incen-
Tunisia            7.6      3.9 r n c             tives and policies, have the potential for supe-
Yemen            -3.7      -3.9         0.0       nior economic performance.
Despite their potential, they share a problem
that imposes a severe strain on the fabric of



140    1993 Regional Perspectives
Table 6-18. Lending to Borrowers in Middle East and North Africa, by Sector,
Fiscal Years 1984-93
(millions of US dollars)
Annual
average,
Sector                            1984-88     1989       1990       1991      1992        1993
Agriculture and rural
development                       269.9      647.0     129.0       13.2      299.2      463.0
Development finance companies       183.4        -       170.0      235.0        -          -
Education                            87.0      251.0      30.5      241.4       75.0      115.2
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal                  8.0        5.5        -        84.0      160.0        -
Power                              97.4      165.0      15.5      114.0      220.0      165.0
Industry                             42.2       10.8     124.5      365.0        -        130.0
Nonproject                           78.0      200.0     450.0      310.0      525.0        -
Population, health, and nutrition    11.0       4.5      119.0      245.0       26.8      188.0
Public-sector management              -          -       130.0        -          -          -
Small-scale enterprises              15.6        -          -         -          -          -
Technical assistance                  3.3       23.0      26.0        -          9.0        -
Telecommunications                   62.4        -          -         -          -        100.0
Transportation                      103.4       63.0      79.0      162.0        -         35.0
Urban development                    31.9      58.0      105.5      250.0      110.0     684.0
Water supply and sewerage           243.7      48.0       12.0        -         57.0        -
Total                         1,237.4    1,475.8    1,391.0    2,019.6   1482.0    1,880.2
Of which: IBRD                  1,186.8    1.421.5    1,323.5    1,784.0    1.324.0    1,756.4
IDA                      50.5      54.3       67.5      235.6      158.0      123.8
Number of operations               21         22        20         20         17         19
- Zero.
NOTE: Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
society: unemployment. Rates of unemploy-    investment, were around five. In fact, during
ment of around 15 percent are found in Egypt.   the 1980s the eight countries were investing, on
Iran, Morocco. and Tunisia, rise to about 20    average, about 20 percent of GDP and had an
percent in Algeria and Jordan. and peak at    ICOR of around ten.
around 25 percent in Lebanon and Yemen.             Judging by past performance in the region, it
This phenomenon  is exacerbated  in many    should not be unrealistic to anticipate neces-
countries by the imbalance between economic    sary increases in investment and in efficiencies
growth and population growth. In the 1970s.   in investment-given  the requisite political
economic growth exceeded population growth    will. Moreover, the severity of the task varies
by a comfortable margin (see Table 6-19). In    among countries. Egypt, Morocco, and Tuni-
the 1980s, however, the situation began to    sia, for example. are not far from the required
change, and by the second half of the decade    magnitudes. In Algeria. Jordan, and Yemen,
population growth exceeded or nearly equaled    however, the efficiency of investment is un-
growth in gross domestic product (GDP) in all    usually low. With population growth rates of
countries except Morocco and Tunisia.             above 3 percent, Iran, Jordan. and Yemen face
Countries that have successfully raised the    the most challenging task, for the higher the
welfare of their people and avoided serious    population growth rate, the higher GDP growth
unemployment have done so by realizing out-    must be to generate sufficient and productive
put growth that exceeds population growth by    job opportunities. Although policies to move
at least 2 percentage points. With an antici-    countries closer to the described growth path
pated population growth in the region of about    must be specific to individual countries, they
2.5 percent, this implies that the countries of    will all flow from  reforms in macroeconomic
the region must grow at around 5 percent a    stabilization, private-sector development. pub-
year. This could be realized if rates of invest-   lic-sector management, and management of
ment were around 25 percent of GDP and if the    external debt.
incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR), which      First. macroeconomic stabilization is a nec-
is an aggregate measure of the efficiency of    essary condition for the development of a



Middle East and North Africa   141
dynamic private sector and for achievement of    ratio of external debt to exports exceeded 300
the  fundamental  objectives  of economic    percent in Egypt. Morocco, and Syria. This
growth  and  poverty  reduction. Macroeco-    ratio now stands at about 200 percent in Alge-
nomic imbalances have historically been quite   ria, over 200 percent in Morocco, and at about
significant. especially in the Mashreq. Some    290 percent in the countries of the Mashreq;
countries in the region, again Morocco and    consequently. most of the countries of the
Tunisia in particular, have already made sub-    region are now either cut off from voluntary
stantial progress on this front: Fiscal deficits   lending or retain onlv marginal access to the
have been brought down significantly and are 3    international capital market. Although imple-
percent of GDP or less, inflation is in single    mentation of reform policies is essential to the
digits. and exchange rates are realistic and    ultimate restoration of creditworthiness, some
reasonably stable.                               countries-Jordan. for example-mav  need
Second, efforts to stimulate the private sec-    special forms of debt relief.
tor are crucial. Most countries in the region,     If reforms in these four areas are pursued
especially Algeria and Egypt. have relied heav-    vigorously, the eight countries will be able to
ily on a public sector-dominated approach to    achieve a better balance between population
development and face a difficult road of priva-    growth and economic growth-essentially by
tization. And, although initial conditions vary,    raising the latter. This still leaves them-and
improvements in the structure of incentives    the other countries of the region, as well-with
and property-rights systems are needed to pro-    unusually high rates of population growth.
vide the private sector with the confidence and    Family-planning programs have already been
safeguards required for increased levels of    started in Egypt and Iran and are well ad-
job-creating investment.                         vanced in Tunisia. Such programs need to be
Third, management improvements in the    complemented by better maternal health care
public sector are clearly needed. No matter    and increased educational opportunities for
what the final division of responsibility be-    girls.
tween the private and public sectors, the lat-     Although the region as a whole has made
ter's ability to function effectively is crucial to    good progress on most of the basic measures of
each country's economic performance. Civil-   social well being such as longevity, morbidity,
service  reforms are  especially  needed  in    and literacy, progress has come from an un-
Egypt, Jordan, and Yemen. for example. Else-    usually low base. As a result, many countries
where, in Iran and Lebanon, for instance.    still lag behind various comparators: The rate
considerable technical assistance will be re-    of secondary school enrollment for girls in
quired to help rebuild administrative cadres. A  Morocco is 30 percent compared with 56 per-
redirection of, and improvements in, the qual-   cent for all lower middle-income countries: 124
ity of public investment are also  needed    out of every 1.000 babies die within their first
throughout the region.                           year in Yemen compared with a low-income
Fourth, it is essential that external debt be    country average of 51; 52 percent of the adult
managed prudently. The past build-up of ex-    population in Egypt is illiterate compared with
ternal debt is a reflection of the decision to    only 40 percent in the low-income comparator
postpone correction of fundamental macroec-    group: and population growth exceeds 3 per-
onomic imbalances. As a result, by 1988 the    cent a year in Iran. Iraq, Jordan, Oman. Syria.
Table 6-19. Output and Population Growth, 1970-90
(percent)
Real GDP growth rate                   Population growth rate
Country            1970-80      1980-85       1985-90      1970-80      1980-85       1985-90
Algeria             5.7           5.3           0.1         3.1           3.2          2.8
Egypt               8.0           7.0           2.5         2.1           2.6          2.3
Iran. Islamic
Republic of       0.7           8.6         -0.8           3.2          3.5          3.8
Jordan              n.a.          n.a.        -0.7           3.8          3.9          4.4
Lebanon             n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         0.8          0.0          0.1
Morocco             5.6           3.3           3.9          2.4          2.6          2.6
Tunisia             7.5           4.2           3.2          2.2          2.6          2.1
Yemen               n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         2.8          3.1          3.1
n.a. Not available.



142   1993 Regional Perspectives
and Yemen compared with less than 2 percent   already extensive system of higher-level serv-
in middle-income countries.                    ices. Thus, universities must restructure. hos-
The World Bank has responded to these    pitals have to provide more cost-effective
challenges by reviewing its strategies for all   treatment and care, and vocational training has
active borrowing countries in the region. As a    to be more responsive to the needs of the
result, during the course of the past fiscal year,    market. The third, which focuses on critical
updated and refocused strategies either were    problems in the labor market, has as its goal
adopted or were close to being completed for   the creation of employment opportunities. es-
all countries. The Bank's country focus has    pecially for youths. Although economic growth
been broadened and deepened by other forms    remains the ultimate solution, elimination of
of strategic thinking. One approach has been to    wage regulations, improved information flows,
take a sectoral slant by analyzing specific   job counseling, better svstems of social insur-
sectoral issues that are common to most coun-    ance. and well-targeted relief programs can
tries of the region; work on human resources    play an important complementary role.
and the environment has been pursued in this     This more general strategy is being fitted
fashion. Another approach arises in the case of   into more detailed country-specific economic
issues that can only be treated at a regional    analysis and investment operations. For exam-
level through regional cooperation.            ple, basic services are being provided through
The Bank's Strategy for the Region             basic education projects in Algeria, Egypt. and
Yemen, through health and family-planning
The Bank's country-assistance strategies are    projects in Iran and Yemen, and through water
designed to meet the specific needs of country    supply and sewerage projects in Morocco,
groups. One group, consisting of Tunisia and    Tunisia. and Yemen. Attention to higher-level
Morocco, has achieved macroeconomic stabil-   services forms a large part of the Bank's future
ity and is advanced in structural reform. In    program in several countries. In the meantime.
both countries the Bank's strategy has shifted    post-basic education is the subject of sector
from  an emphasis on adjustment to one on    work in Tunisia. as are education expenditures
long-run development. A second group, con-   in Morocco. During the past fiscal year, other
sisting of Egypt and Jordan, has started on the    areas of concern-labor markets and social
path of reform. In these countries the Bank's   safety nets-were addressed through the com-
strategy calls for a mix of investment and    pletion of an analysis of labor markets in four
adjustment lending. A different set of problems    countries; in addition, social security and
is encountered in a third group of countries    safetv nets in Egypt, Iran. and Tunisia are
(Iran and Lebanon) that is engaged in eco-    being analyzed. Poverty assessments are also
nomic reconstruction and rehabilitation and to    being undertaken throughout the region.
which the Bank has resumed lending opera-        Another area critical to development-envi-
tions. Initial emphasis by the Bank has been to   ronment and water resources-provides a fur-
address the urgent needs of rehabilitation and    ther example of the Bank's sectoral approach.
stabilization. A fourth group, consisting of   The distribution of water and habitable land in
Algeria and Yemen. is in need of fairly funda-   the region is such that the population is con-
mental economic reforms: here, however, dif-   centrated along coastal areas and in river val-
ficult domestic situations are delaying the pro-   leys. This phenomenon, combined with rapid
cess. In these two countries, the Bank is   population growth, has created some unique
providing limited new commitments in support   environmental challenges. Four are regarded
of projects that can deliver a high social return.   as critical: the worsening urban environment,
Sectoral strategies, applicable to a range of   the scarcity and degradation  of water re-
the region's borrowers, are also being devel-   sources, the degradation of land and forest
oped by the Bank and molded to the needs of   resources, and the neglect of regional com-
specfic countries. A three-pronged strategy to    mons. While neglect of regional commons and
support human-resource development, critical   the existence of environmental problems that
to both economic growth and poverty reduc-    extend beyond country boundaries are not
tion and an area that until recently has been    unique to the region, solutions to the chal-
relatively neglected, is one example of this   lenges they pose are particularly crucial to the
approach. The first prong emphasizes expan-    region's future development.
sion and improvement of basic services (pri-     These problems are being tackled at the
mary health care, family planning. basic edu-    country level, as well as at a multicountry or
cation, clean water, and proper sanitation, for   regional level. At the country level. national
example) that are critical to improvements in   environmental-action plans have been com-
the well-being of the poor. The second deals    pleted for almost all active countries, environ-
with the need to improve and rationalize an    mental components have been incorporated



Middie East and North Africa    143
Table 6-20. Commitments, Disbursements, and Net Transfers in Middle East and
North Africa
millions of US dollars: fiscal years)
Egypt            Algeria           Morocco           Total region
start             start             start              start
Item                     1993  1993 1989-93  1993  1993 1989-93  1993  1993 1989-93  1993  1993  1989-93
IBRD and IDA
commitments                  108  1,410         240  1.685        549  2.507         1.880   8.249
Undisbursed balance      1.333             1.476              1.383             5.833
Gross disbursements            232   701         207  1,324         347  2.097        1.251   5.998
Repayments                     199   921         171   719          289  1.118         936   4,100
Net disbursements               33  -220          36   605           S8   979          315   1.897
Interest and charges           125   670          116   454         259  1.142         706   3.142
Net transfer                  -92  -890          -80    151        -201   -163        -391  -1.245
NOTE: Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are included. The countries shown in the table are those with the largest
amounts of public or publicly guaranteed long-term debt. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
into  sectoral  projects.  and   freestanding       Bank and the advisers but also among the
projects that addt-ess forestry (Tunisia). marine   advisers themselves.
pollution (Egypt). and water-resource manage-          Finally, in response to a request by partici-
ment (Algeria. Tunisia) issues have been ap-    pants of the Multilateral Working Group on
proved. Many problems relating to the envi-    Regional Economic Development. in the con-
ronment  and  water  extend   beyond  the    text of the multilateral Middle East peace
boundaries of a single country. however.            talks, the Bank carried out an in-depth analysis
One  illustration  of the  multicountrv  ap-    of the development needs of select economies
proach for addressing an environmental prob-    of the region. including the occupied territories
lem involves the development of a successful    of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank.
framework for coordinating action around the           During the year. the Bank sent five small
Mediterranean. IThe first phase of a multi-   teams to the occupied ter-itories to undertake
country and multidonor program  for the pro-    field wvork and collect data in five areas: in-
tection of the Mediterranean-the Mediterra-    frastructure. human  resources, agriculture,
nean  Environmental  Technical  Assistance          private-sector development, and  macroeco-
Program. undertaken in collaboration with the       nomics. '[he Bank's main findings and recom-
European Communitv. the Eitropean Invest-    mendations. which will be discussed with the
ment Bank, and the United Nations Develop-    Israelis. Jordanians. and Palestinians. will be
ment Programme-is fully committed and on    incorporated into a regional report to the Mul-
schedule, and a second. larger phase is being    tilateral Working Group.
launched.                                              In a separate progress report submitted to
Similarly, the Bank is organizing one ele-    the Multilateral Working Group in May, the
ment of its approach to development issues    Bank noted that. based on preliminary find-
along regional lines. This involves efforts to    ings. anticipated investment requirements for
foster more applied and policy-oriented eco-    priority  social and  economic  infrastructure
nomic tesearch. As an initial step in this pro-    (transport, power. water and sewerage. health.
cess. a conference was held in Cairo in June        and education) in the occupied territories were
1993 and attended by about eighty economists.    substantial, on the order of hundreds of mil-
At issue was the possible establishment of a    lions of dollars-and perhaps approaching $1
regional institution that would set standards,    billion-over the next five years.
serve as a research network, and fund and
publish high-quality, policy-oriented economic      From  Strategy to Implementation
research.                                              The way the Bank has structured its work
Another- initiative involves the establishment    programs and deployed its resources has been
by the Bank of a council of advisers comprising     influenced by the continuing uncertainty of
prominent academics and businessmen, many           country conditions in many parts of the region.
with experience in government, drawn from all    As a result. a premium has been placed on the
over the region. The meetings of the council,    Bank's ability to respond quickly to changes in
the first of which took place in Januarv 1993,    the political and economic environment. Total
provide a forum for discussion and exchange of    staff resources in fiscal 1993 were approxi-
views on key issues-not just between the            mately at the same level as in the year before,



144   1993 Regional Perspectives
but, within the total, significant redeplovments   that go beyond mere intensification of supervi-
were made across service categories and coun-    sion of individual operations. Comprehensive
tries in light of evolving conditions. Thus,   reviews of each country's portfolio began in
resources for the Iran program were increased    fiscal 1992 with Algeria, followed by Egypt and
substantially in both fiscal 1992 and 1993 to    Morocco in fiscal 1993. A comprehensive fol-
update knowledge, to provide the government   low-up review of the Algerian portfolio was
with policy advice in key areas (especially on    begun late in fiscal 1993. Reviews of Tunisia
trade and safety nets), and to lay the founda-    and Yemen are slated for completion in fiscal
tion for a gradually increasing lending pro-    1994. and, by the end of 1995. portfolios for
gram. Similarly, there has been an increase in    most countries will have been reviewed. These
the program of reimbursable technical assis-   reviews are expected to lead to a strengthening
tance to the Gulf countries. Offsetting these    of the country dialogue, linkages between new
increases has been a reduction in resources to   lending volumes and country performance, the
Egypt from  the high level reached in fiscal    addressing of systemic issues (procurement
1992, when substantial economic and sector    and resettlement, for example) at the country
work was completed.                            level. and the identification of operations for
Additional emphasis on portfolio manage-   redesign and/or closure. In the longer term. the
ment has also influenced the way the Bank is    Bank will open additional field offices to facil-
structuring its work program. Increased atten-   itate country dialogue and to improve project
tion to portfolio management requires actions    implementation.



145
Section Seven
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD
and IDA Assistance in Fiscal 1993
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in This Section
ADF-African Development Fund                  FINNIDA-Finnish International Development
AfDB-African Development Bank                   Agency
AIDAB-Australian Intemational Development    GATT-General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
Assistance Bureau                           GEF-Global Environment Facility
AsDB-Asian Development Bank                   IDB-Inter-American Development Bank
BADEA-Arab Bank for Economic                  IFAD-Intemational Fund for Agricultural
Development in Africa                         Development
BCIE-Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n     JICA-Japan International Cooperation Agency
Econ6mica                                   KFAED-Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
BEAC-Banque des etats de l'Afrique centrale     Development
BITS-Swedish Agency for Intemational          NORAD-Norwegian Agency for Development
Technical and Economic Cooperation            Cooperation
CABEI-Central American Bank for Economic    ODA-Overseas Development Administration
Integration                                 OECF-Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
CAF-Andean Development Fund                   OPEC-Organization of the Petroleum
CCCE-Caisse centrale de cooperation             Exporting Countries
economique                                  PAHO-Pan American Health Organization
CDB-Caribbean Development Bank                PHARE-Pologne-Hongrie: aide a la
CFD-Caisse Fran,aise de d6veloppement           reconstruction economique
CIDA-Canadian Intemational Development        SDC-Swiss Development Corporation
Agency                                      SIDA-Swedish Intemational Development
DANIDA-Danish Intemational Development          Authority
Agency                                      UNDP-United Nations Development
EBRD-European Bank for Reconstruction and       Programme
Development                                 UNESCO-United Nations Educational,
EC-European Community                           Scientific, and Cultural Organization
EDF-European Development Fund                 UNICEF-United Nations Children's Fund
EIB-European Investment Bank                  USAID-United States Agency for Intemational
FAC-Fonds d'aide et de cooperation              Development
FAO-Food and Agriculture Organization of      WFP-World Food Programme
the U.N.                                    WWF-World Wildlife Fund
Agriculture and Rural Development                  in rural areas) and small-scale credit provided to
ALBANIA: IDA-$20 million. The goverment's          meet the immediate needs of farmers and rural
agricultural sector-reform program will be       microentrepreneurs. Cofinancing is expected
agncuturalsecto-reTom proram WI nefrom the EC ($2 million) and the UNDP
supported over an eighteen-month period, and a
line of credit will be provided to the govemment  ($400,000). Total cost: $4.8 million.
for onlending to rural entrepreneurs through the  BENIN: IDA-$3.8 million. The second phase of
new  Agricultural Bank  Technical assistance is  the govemment's long-term strategy to develop a
includew . Agricultural B     Txpechnicalm astae isF  viable rural financial-intermediation system and
included. Cofinancing is expected from the OECF  foprmtnboa-seecoicgwhad
($15 million), the EC's PHARE ($10 million),     for promotg broad-based economic growth and
and the Netherlands ($2 million). Total cost:   improved living conditions in rural areas will be
$47 million,                                     supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from the
ALBANIA: IDA-$2.4 million. The govemment's         CFD ($2.8 million), the SDC ($1.9 million), the
rural poverty-alleviation program will be
supported by financing its year-long pilot phase
during which local infrastructure will be repaired  Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation
and rehabilitated (thereby creating employment  provided at the time of project approval.



146    Summaries of Projects Approved
FAC ($900,000), IFAD ($400,000), and the EC      and soil losses caused by erosion; inadequate and
($200,000). Total cost: $15.1 million.           weak linkages between production, processing,
BURKINA FASO: IDA-$7.5 million. Through a           and marketing activities; and limited technical
program of institution building and strengthening  and agricultural-extension services. Total cost:
and the establishment of an integrated early-     $287.6 million.
warning system, the ability to plan, implement,  CHINA: IDA-$115 million. A sizable portion of
and monitor food-security interventions will be  the country's 200 million farmers is expected
increased. At the household level, mechanisms to  to benefit from increased agricultural production
cope with food insecurity will be improved by    and incomes as a result of a project that seeks to
diversifying income sources of the rural poor and  strengthen those institutions that provide support
by making more efficient use of available food,  services to farmers. Total cost: $238.3 million.
especially for children under the age of three and  COLOMBIA: IBRD-$250 million. The
for lactating mothers. Cofinancing is anticipated  government will be helped to introduce and
from Germany ($1.5 million) and the WFP           sustain financial and trade-policy changes in
($1.1 million). Total cost: $12.8 million.       the agriculture sector, particularly through the
BURUNDI: IDA-$3. I million. The production          elimination of subsidized interest rates and
and marketing of agricultural products will       directed lending. Institution-building assistance
be diversified and efficiency improvements       is included. Total cost: $1,522 million.
stimulated through provision of assistance to  EGYPT: IDA-$22 million. Incomes among the
the govemment in privatizing publicly held        poorer segments of the rural Bedouin population,
agroindustries and to private entrepreneurs       estimated to number about 61.000, are expected
in developing agribusinesses. Cofinancing is     to rise from a project that seeks to break the cycle
expected from the EC ($1.2 million) and Belgium   of natural-resource degradation and poverty in
and the CCCE ($100,000 each). Total cost:         thecountry's northwestcoastal zone by providing
$6.2 million.                                    support for improved natural-resource
CHILE: IBRD-$45 million. The operation              management approaches and practices, coupled
and efficiency of existing and future small       with agricultural development. Total cost:
and medium-sized irrigation schemes will be      $29.5 million.
improved and the welfare of small farmers in    EL SALVADOR: IBRD-$40 million. About
poor areas enhanced through a project designed    143,000 small and medium-scale farmers are
to improve the allocation and sustainability of  to benefit from a project that seeks to upgrade
investments and strengthen the capabilities of    the country's agricultural research and extension
user groups and small farmers. Total cost:       services. In addition, public and private-sector
$118.7 million.                                   institutions will be strengthened through a
CHINA: IBRD-$325 million; IDA-$165 million.         program of institutional development, staff and
Financial support will be provided over a six-    procedural rationalization, and support-services
year period to introduce a bulk grain-handling    privatization. Total cost: $56.5 million.
logistical system in four grain-transport corridors,    GABON: IBRD-$22.5 million. The management
improve domestic design and implementation       and protection of the country's forest resources
capacity in grain-distribution logistics through  will be improved through institution-building
technical assistance and training, and develop two  assistance, a program of forestry and environment
national grain markets and a grain-marketing      training and research, preparation of a forest
information network. Total cost: $991.4 million.  inventory and the subsequent rehabilitation
CHINA: IBRD-$ 100 million; IDA-$ 100 million.       of depleted forests. and the creation and
Recurring severe flooding in the Taihu basin,     maintenance of biodiversity reserves.
the country's most industrialized and highly     Cofinancing is anticipated from the EC
productive agricultural area, will be prevented  ($4.3 million), the WWF ($1.7 million), and
through engineering measures to control floods    others ($3.4 million). Total cost: $38.2 million.
and improve land drainage. In addition, the    THE GAMBIA: IDA-$12.3 million. Most of the
quantity and quality of raw water used for the    more than half million people living in rural areas
water supply of Shanghai and other urban centers  are expected to benefit from a project that seeks
will be improved, and inland water transportation  to strengthen support services in agricultural
will be expanded and improved. Total cost:       extension, research, and training, as well as
$497.3 million.                                  promote self-reliance and farmer empowerment.
CHINA: IDA-$147 million. More than 4 million        Cofinancing is expected from IFAD
people in Sichuan province, many of them          ($3.6 million). Total cost: $17.2 million.
farmers living in very poor counties, will benefit    GHANA: IDA-$22.5 million. The nutrition,
from a project that attempts to address the key  income, and standard of living of many rural
constraints limiting agricultural productivity: the  families will be improved through a substantial
shortage and irregular availability of water; water  increase in livestock production, to be generated



Agriculture and Rural Development   147
through better animal disease-control services,   will benefit through the expansion of rubber-
the dissemination of improved technologies       based production systems on degraded land.
in forage and livestock production, improved     Total cost: $143.8 million.
breeding stock, and facilitating access to markets.    INDIA: IDA-$54.7 million. About 80,000 small
Total cost: $29.1 million.                        and marginal farm families are expected to benefit
GHANA: IDA-$18.1 million. By focusing on            directly from project activities associated with
improved resource-management capability          the reclamation over a seven-year period of
through the reorganization and strengthening      approximately 45,000 hectares of salt-affected
of institutions involved in environmental-       (sodic) land in ten districts of Uttar Pradesh.
resource management, the capacity of both the     Institutional strengthening is included. Total cost:
government and people to manage environmental     $80.2 million.
resources will be strengthened. In addition,   INDONESIA: IBRD-$54 million. About 50,000
environmental-management skills in sectoral      families are expected to benefit directly from
and local govemment agencies will be developed.   a project that supports a six-year program of
Cofinancing is expected from the GEF              groundwater development designed to provide
($7.2 million), DANIDA ($4.3 million), and the    irrigation for some 25,000 hectares in eleven
ODA ($900,000). Total cost: $35.9 million.        provinces. Total cost: $84.9 million.
GUINEA: IDA-$20.8 million. Through a program      INDONESIA: IBRD-$32 million. Agricultural
of institution building and management support,   production, particularly paddy, will be stabilized,
provision of specialized technical services, and  and environmentally sound crop-production
construction of access roads, the supply response  systems promoted by strengthening and
in the agricultural-export sector will be enhanced.  expanding the national integrated pest-
Cofinancing ($600,000) is anticipated from the    management (IPM) program; training of about
FAC. Total cost: $24.6 million.                   800.000 farmers (of whom 30 percent will be
HUNGARY: IBRD-$ 100 million. Through a              women) in IPM; financing of field investigations
program of financial and technical assistance,    and studies to develop appropriate, farmer-
the operational and pricing efficiency of product  responsive technology: and strengthening of
markets will be strengthened, thereby improving   the regulatory and environmental management of
the business environment so that producers and    pesticides. Cofinancing ($7 million) is expected
trading companies can adjust efficiently to       from USAID. Total cost: $53 million.
changing market conditions. Total cost:        IRAN: IBRD-$157 million. The incomes of some
$254.5 million.                                   46.000 farm families are expected to increase
INDIA: IDA-$117 million. Close to 4 million         through the improvement and upgrading of four
people will benefit from a project designed       existing irrigation and drainage systems and the
to increase rural incomes and reduce poverty      upgrading of agricultural extension and research.
among tribal people in Bihar state through a      In addition, the planning and implementation
program of agricultural development, provision   capacity of sector institutions is to be improved
of minor irrigation and drainage, upgrading of    through provision of technical assistance and
rural roads, and accelerated implementation of an  training. Total cost: $311.7 million.
existing handpump program. Total cost:         KENYA: IDA-$20 million. The impact of the
$132 million.                                     recent drought on people living in the country's
INDIA: IDA-$106 million. The Rajasthan state        northern arid and semi-arid districts will be
govemment's Agricultural-development              alleviated through measures to regenerate
Project-designed to accelerate growth, reduce     productive capacity in agriculture and livestock
poverty, conserve resources, rationalize public   production and improve water-supply and basic
expenditures, and encourage private-sector        health services. Total cost: $29.6 million.
investment-will be supported through policy    KENYA: IDA-$19.4 million. Through provision
reforms and the financing of investments in crop  of technical assistance, training, and equipment,
husbandry. horticulture, animal husbandry, water  the cotton and oilseeds subsectors will be
resources, agricultural research and training, rural  developed. Technical assistance will also be
roads, and environmental strengthening. Total     provided to help restructure the sugar subsector
cost: $130.3 million.                             and make the cooperative subsector more
INDIA: IDA-$92 million. The rubber subsector        efficient and responsive to member needs.
will be expanded and strengthened through        Institution-building assistance is included.
the replanting of old, low-yielding rubber, new  Total cost: $21.5 million.
rubber plantings, productivity enhancements    MADAGASCAR: IDA-$3.7 million. Technical
through improved management of inputs, and        assistance will be provided to help stimulate
the upgrading or establishment of processing      and support the creation of a savings and loan
facilities. In addition, tribal people in Tripura  movement at the grassroots level that would
state-a nontraditional rubber-growing area-       provide sustainable financial services to its



148   Summaries of Projects Approved
members and, over time, develop banking and       in one of the country's poorest and most
borrowing relationships with formal institutions.  environmentally vulnerable areas, Azad Jammu
Total cost: $4.6 million.                         and Kashmir, will be provided through
MALAWI: IDA-$45.8 million. Through support          improvements in the policy framework,
for agricultural research and agricultural-      restructuring and strengthening of public
extension activities, increased availability     institutions responsible for land-management
of improved seeds and fertilizers, and provision  resources. and piloting test programs in
of technical assistance and training for          community management of natural resources.
institutional strengthening, affordable and      Total cost: $36 million.
sustainable technologies suitable for a range  PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$51.3 million. Incomes and
of smallholders will be developed, and farm       employment opportunities for about 460.000
incomes and food security will be enhanced.       low-income farm families will increase through
Cofinancing ($12.7 million) is expected from      sustainable improvements in the operational
the AfDB. Total cost: $64.8 million.              efficiency of the country's national irrigation
MALAWI: IDA-$25 million. The foundation             systems serving about 640,000 hectares. Total
for the sustainability of rural financial services  cost: $69.6 million.
will be laid through the corporatizing and     POLAND: IBRD-$300 million. The government's
conversion of the Smallholder Agricultural        medium-term agriculture sector-adjustment
Credit Administration into an autonomous          program, which redefines the nature and role of
company and its preparation for privatization     government in relation to the agriculture sector
and transformation into a private rural bank.     and supports sectoral adjustment efforts toward
Total cost: $36.7 million.                        a competitive market-oriented economy, will be
MOLDOVA: IBRD-$26 million. In the wake of           assisted. (Up to SI00 million of the $300 million
the unusually severe drought of 1992, inputs for  will be set aside to help support a debt and debt-
the 1993 agricultural season will be financed, thus  service reduction program with the country's
increasing the availability of food for the      commercial creditors.)
domestic economy and export and facilitating the    TUNISIA: IBRD-$69 million. Sustainable
reduction of poverty. Total cost: $31.2 million.  integrated development and management of
MOROCCO: IBRD-$215 million. A second                the country's forest resources (with the active
project seeks to make large-scale irrigation more  involvement of the poor populations dependent
efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable through  on forests and the private sector) will be
provision of infrastructure rehabilitation, a     promoted. Cofinancing ($700,000) is expected
program of institution building, improvements    from the AfDB. Total cost: $148.1 million.
in water-use efficiency, and implementation of  TURKEY: IBRD-$77 million. In three low-income
needed policy reforms. Total cost: $367.3 million.  provinces of Eastern Turkey, fertility will be
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$20 million. The country's         restored to badly degraded soils and erosion
National Reconstruction Program, whose primary   in upland areas reduced through support of
objective is to undertake pilot activities to     watershed-rehabilitation activities. In addition,
encourage decentralized rural economic recovery  farmer incomes should increase through
while creating the institutional capacity and     improvements in fuelwood, fodder, and agricultural
procedures necessary to address broader post-war  production. Cofinancing ($5.1 million) is
rehabilitation needs, will be supported. Total cost:  expected from the GEF. Total cost:
$23.1 million.                                    $115.5 million.
NEPAL: IDA-$28 million. New headworks             UGANDA: IDA-$25 million. The government's
facilities for the Sunsaru Morang Irrigation      strategy for improving productivity and
Project, the country's largest, will be provided  diversification in the agricultural sector will
so as to alleviate problems of siltation that have  be assisted by a project that supports key
caused the loss of function of a significant part of  activities of the newly established National
the 68,000 hectares that make up the command      Agricultural Research Organization; strengthens
area. Total cost: $30 million.                    the linkages and coordination among the research
PAKISTAN: IDA-$54.2 million. Productivity           system, the extension service, and the agricultural
on 121,000 hectares of waterlogged lands in the   faculties of Makerere University and agricultural
southeastern corner of Punjab province will be   colleges; and improves agricultural education and
increased through water-conservation measures,   training capacity. Total cost: $28.9 million.
construction of surface drains, field trials for  UGANDA: IDA-$15.8 million. Improved
subsurface drainage, irrigation and drainage      efficiency is being sought in the delivery and
research, technical assistance, and training.     impact of extension in sixteen selected districts
Total cost: $70.6 million.                        (at least two from each of the country's six
PAKISTAN: IDA-$28.8 million. The sustainable        agroecological zones). Emphasis will also be
and economically efficient use of land resources  placed on the development of human-resource



Education    149
capacity, including management skills. Technical  institution-building assistance and provision of a
assistance is included. Total cost: $17.8 million.  line of credit to be onlent to the private sector for
VENEZUELA: IBRD-$55 million. Through                investment projects. Total cost: $3,576 million.
provision of assistance to the National Institute
of Parks and other key public agencies involved  Educaton
in environmental protection, national capacity to  ALGERIA: IBRD-S40 million. This project. the
manage the country's national and urban parks.   first step in a long process that aims at improving
natural monuments, and wildlife refuges and       quality and efficiency in basic and secondary
reserves will be expanded. Funds in support       education, seeks to introduce a pilot system for
of applied environmental research and public      assessing leaming outcomes and quality in basic
environmental education will also be made         and secondary education, strengthen the quality
available. Total cost: $96 million.              of pedagogic-research programs, and promote a
ZAMBIA: IDA-$33 million. Sound lending              more effective use of pedagogic materials in
practices in the agricultural sector will be      schools. Total cost: $64 million.
introduced by providing targeted credit at     BANGLADESH: IDA-$68 million. A significant
commercial lending rates to the sector through   increase in secondary school enrollment of
the commercial-banking system, and measures       girls will be stimulated through provision of an
to increase private-sector participation in rural  integrated, catalytic package of activities, thereby
maize marketing and milling, input supply, rural  enlarging the stock of educated women capable of
transportation, and rural road maintenance will   participating fully in the economic and social
be supported. Technical assistance is included.  development of the country. Total cost:
Cofinancing ($12.5 million) is expected from the  $80 million.
AfDB. Total cost: $68 million.                 BOLIVIA: IDA-$50.7 million. Some 200,000
children between six months and six years of
age will benefit from a project that seeks to
CHINA: IBRD-$150 million. The Tianjin              (a) improve children's readiness to succeed in
municipal govemment will be assisted in           school and beyond by facilitating their physical,
restructuring its industrial sector through       emotional, social. and cognitive development; (b)
provision of funds to be onlent to enterprises    enhance the status of women by increasing their
in the machine-tool, construction-equipment,      employment opportunities and expanding their
automotive-parts, electronic-components, and      knowledge of education, health, and nutrition;
electric-motors subsectors for restructuring and  and (c) increase community and private-sector
modemization. Total cost: $222 million.           participation in the social-development process.
COLOMBIA: IBRD-$50 million. The country's           Cofinancing is anticipated from the WFP
export-development process will be accelerated   ($11.9 million), the EC ($1.8 million), UNICEF
during the early years of trade liberalization    ($1.3 million), and USAID ($600,000), while a
through, in particular. the streamlining of       financing gap of $44.1 million is expected to
trade-administration mechanisms and ensuring      be financed by food aid from bilateral agencies.
consistency with GATT requirements and by         Total cost: $140.2 million.
helping existing and potential exporters to better    BOLIVIA: IDA-$40 million. A second Social
assess export markets, adapt products, build     Investment Fund Project will continue to provide
export-market share, and secure export financing.  assistance to the government in improving
Total cost: $86.6 million.                        coverage and quality of health, water-supply,
ECUADOR: IBRD-$75 million. The efficiency of        sanitation, and education services, targeting
the country's productive and financial sectors    primarily the rural poor, including indigenous
will be increased through a project that seeks    peoples and disadvantaged women and children.
to develop the private sector by accelerating     Cofinancing ($5 million) is expected from the
private investment through the provision of       OPEC Fund for Intemational Development. Total
term financing, improving financial-sector        cost: $70 million.
performance, and encouraging allocative        BRAZIL: IBRD-$212 million. Improvements in
efficiency through support of trade-liberalization  schooling quality for about 3 million children in
reforms.                                         the first four grades of primary school in four
INDONESIA: IBRD-$307 million. A program of          northeast states will be supported, thereby
govemmental regulatory and institutional reforms  contributing to reduced dropout and repetition
in the financial sector, designed to lower the risk  rates and increased student leaming. Total cost:
of financial instability, enhance the efficiency  $378.6 million.
of resource allocation, and transform the five  CHAD: IDA-$19.3 million. The access, quality,
state commercial banks into sound and effective   and efficiency of primary education, primarily
financial intermediaries (and prepare them for   in rural areas and for girls nationwide, will
future privatization) will be supported through   be improved through the construction and



150   Summaries of Projects Approved
rehabilitation of classrooms, purchase and     JAMAICA: IBRD-$32 million. The govemment
distribution of textbooks, improvements to       will be assisted in improving the quality and
teacher training, and development and            equity of lower secondary education and in
implementation of a program to accelerate girls'  strengthening its capacity to plan and monitor
education. Support for local education initiatives  improvements in the quality of education and to
and institution-building assistance is included.  undertake sophisticated social-policy analysis.
Cofinancing ($5.6 million) is expected from      Cofinancing ($2.7 million) is expected from the
Germany. Total cost: $33.9 million.              Netherlands. Total cost: $40.7 million.
CHINA: IDA-$100 million. Civil works.            KENYA: IDA-$52.1 million. Funds from IDA
equipment. materials, specialist services, and   reflows will be provided to supplement the
training will be provided in support of lower    education sector-adjustment credit, approved
middle school (LMS) teacher training. thus       in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $100 million.
helping to bring pre-service LMS teacher training    KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$60 million.
up to prescribed standards nationwide. Total cost:  Selected agricultural and veterinary colleges
$256.4 million.                                  will be assisted in their efforts to strengthen
COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA-$6.7 million. Technical         the teaching of environment-related courses,
assistance and training. as well as a complement  which, in tum, would lead to better-prepared
of new equipment, will be provided so as to      professionals becoming available to work in
build capacity into the country's human-resources  environmental fields in the public and private
ministries to implement the govemment's human-   sectors. In addition, the capacity for
resources development program. Total cost:       environmental research in the colleges
$7.9 million.                                    will be upgraded. Total cost: $97.3 million.
EGYPT: IDA-$55.5 million. Access to the country's    LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:
basic education system will be improved and the  IDA-$19 million. By improving student
system's efficiency increased through a project  and teacher performance in primary and lower
whose principal components include institutional  secondary schools, developing mechanisms
development, a program of in-service teacher     for assuring the provision of appropriate primary
training, and school construction and            and secondary school facilities, promoting
rehabilitation. Total cost: $73.8 million.       efficiency in the allocation and use of resources,
GHANA: IDA-$65.1 million. Through                  and strengthening educational administration and
investments in physical infrastructure           management, the immediate needs for quality
(construction of classrooms and headteachers,   improvement in basic education will be
houses) and implementation of key policy         addressed. Cofinancing is anticipated from the
and management changes (increasing the official  SDC ($9.8 million) and Norway ($3 million).
teaching hours from four to five a day, increasing  Total cost: $37.5 million.
community involvement in education, provision  MALAYSIA: IBRD-$141 million. About 250,000
of teacher training), significant improvements are  student places will be created through a third
expected in enrollments, leaming outcomes,       primary and secondary education-sector project
teachers' performance, and community interest-  that also emphasizes the promotion of educational
especially in the country's 1,983 most deprived  quality, expansion of equitable access, and
primary schools. Total cost: $73.3 million.     increased efficiency of sectoral resource
GHANA: IDA-$45 million. The govemment's            management. Total cost: $342 million.
tertiary education-reform program, which       MALAYSIA: IBRD-$107 million. The quality
stresses quality improvements in teaching and    and quantity of higher-level technical manpower
leaming, improved management, establishment      for industry will be increased through the
of a system combining autonomy and               expansion of the country's training capacity and
accountability for universities, and a gradual  improvements in the quality of pre-service
expansion of enrollments, will be supported.    training for higher-level skilled workers and
Total cost: $51.4 million.                       technicians. Total cost: $185 million.
INDIA: IDA-$165 million. The institutional       MAURITANIA: IDA-$12.5 million. The
capacity needed to plan, manage, and evaluate    govemment will be assisted in implementing
basic-education development in Uttar Pradesh    its long-term development strategy for
will be developed. In addition, through          establishing a coherent technical-education
improvements in the quality of schools and access  and vocational-training system that is staffed
to them, as well as upgrading of teacher skills,  largely by national instructors, efficient, of
female dropout rates may be halved, leaming      good quality, and responsive to labor- market
achievement increased by half, and access to     demands. Institutional-strengthening measures
basic education provided for 600,000 currently   are included. Cofinancing ($2.2 million)
unserved students in ten project districts. Total  is anticipated from the FAC. Total cost:
cost: $193.9 million.                            $16.4 million.



Education   151
MAURITIUS: IBRD-$20 million. The govemment    PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD-$35 million.
will be assisted in implementing its education-  Enrollment in upper secondary education
development program. whose main objective is to  will be increased, the quality of primary and
improve access to, and the quality of, secondary  lower secondary education improved, school
education, with the specific target of increasing  maintenance strengthened, and education
secondary enrollment by 15,000 students over the  planning and management reinforced. In
period 1993-98. Total cost: $78.7 million.     addition, policies and strategies to address
MEXICO: IBRD-$174 million. The govemment's       three key problems-female education, cost
efforts to promote private sector-led growth   effectiveness, and teacher education-will be
and ease the costs of labor mobility will be   developed. Total cost: $51.3 million.
supported through a project that seeks to increase    SENEGAL: IDA-$40 million. Primary classroom
productivity and competitiveness in small and  construction in the country's most educationally
medium-sized enterprises, provide education    underserved regions will be financed, as will
and training opportunities to displaced        programs to increase the enrollment of girls and
and unemployed workers, and improve the        improve the quality of education. In addition, the
availability, timeliness, and dissemination    quality and efficiency of secondary and higher
of labor-market information. Total cost:       education will be improved and education-sector
$355.9 million.                                planning and management strengthened.
MEXICO: IBRD-$80 million. The quality and        Cofinancing ($5.8 million) is expected from
efficiency of the country's nonformal "initial  Germany. Total cost: $72.8 million.
education" program (which, through community    SOLOMON ISLANDS: IDA-$16.9 million.
educators. teaches child-development skills    Access to secondary education, particularly at
to parents of children (up to three years old)) will  the senior level, will be expanded by about 40
be improved, thus enhancing the quality of life  percent while increasing female participation
of some 1.2 million children and their parents.  to 45 percent. In addition, five new day junior
Cofinancing ($1 million) is anticipated from   secondary schools at the village level will be
the UNDP/UNICEF/UNESCO. Total cost:            constructed, primary and secondary schools
$115 million.                                   will be supplied with textbooks, and classrooms
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$48.6 million. Capacity in        and staff houses at the primary level damaged or
key public institutions and skill areas will be built  destroyed by Cyclone Nina will be rehabilitated
and maintained by increasing the quantity and  or reconstructed. Technical assistance is included.
improving the quality of graduates from Eduardo  Cofinancing ($800,000) is anticipated from
Mondlane University and through quality        Japan. Total cost: $18.8 million.
improvements in upper secondary education.   TURKEY: IBRD-$67 million. An Employment
Institution-building assistance is included. Total  and Training Project seeks to improve allocative
cost: $60.3 million.                           efficiency through the diversification of
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$15.5 million. Capacity          employment services; improve the absorption
in key public institutions and skill areas will  of unemployed, unskilled workers in productive
be built and maintained through a program of   employment; improve the efficiency of labor-
technical assistance and training designed to  market decisions by providing better information
strengthen legal institutions and develop public  of employment prospects and training
administration and management skills. Total cost:  requirements by occupation; and promote
$17.5 million.                                 productive employment of women. Total cost:
NIGERIA: IDA-$8 million. A five-year              $107.4 million.
pilot project that supports early childhood  UGANDA: IDA-$52.6 million. Specific
development through the development,           investment expenditures in the areas of primary
production, and distribution of video-taped    education and related teacher training will be
programs and printed support materials has     financed, and the institutional ability to monitor
been designed to develop basic communication   the pattem of sectoral resource mobilization and
and social skills among preschoolers and sensitize  allocation will be strengthened. In addition,
parents to the need of early childhood         the strategic-planning capacity of the Ministry
development. Cofinancing ($500,000) is expected  of Education and Sports will be enhanced.
from UNICEF and the Bernard Van Leer           Cofinancing ($25 million) is anticipated from
Foundation. Total cost: $10.2 million.         USAID. Total cost: $104.1 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA-$106 million. Access, equity,    YEMEN: IDA-$19.7 million. Female enrollment
and efficiency in Balochistan's primary-education  in grades I through 6 in rural areas will be
system, particularly for girls, will be improved,  increased by providing adequate classrooms
as will the quality of the leaming environment  and improving their utilization, as well as by
for all schools. Institution-building assistance  promoting the recruitment of female teachers.
is included. Total cost: $120 million.         In addition, educational quality will be improved



152   Summaries of Projects Approved
through the establishment of a cost-effective     CCCE ($5 million), and others ($5.2 million).
distance-education system for the training of    Total cost: $185.3 million.
teachers and the development of a unified      GUINEA: IDA-$50 million. The transitional costs
curriculum, a new textbook series, and           associated with the privatization of the national
standardized student-achievement tests. Total    power utility will be financed, and the regulatory
cost: $25 million.                               framework in the power sector will be improved.
ZAMBIA: IDA-$32 million. About 1.5 million          In addition, a parallel program of priority
primary school pupils and 5,000 education         investments, to be financed by eight bilateral
managers are to benefit from an education-        and multilateral donors, will be undertaken.
rehabilitation project that seeks to arrest further  Cofinancing is expected from the EIB
decline in education quality, increase access to  ($25 million). Total cost: $150 million.
education and improve the leaming environment,    HONDURAS: IDA-$33.1 million. Funds from
and strengthen professional and administrative   IDA reflows will be provided to supplement
support to teachers and to schools. Cofinancing   the energy-sector adjustment credit, approved
($6.1 million) is expected from the Netherlands,  in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $50.6 million.
FINNIDA, the ODA, SIDA, and UNICEF Total    HONDURAS: IDA-$12 million. ENEE, the
cost: $42.8 million.                              national power company, will be assisted in
Energy                                              carrying out an emergency program of sealing
EnergY                                        the foundation of the Morazan dam to control
ARGENTINA: IBRD-$300 million. The early             pressure buildups and subsequent erosive flows
operation of the massive Yacyreta hydroelectric   and to improve ENEE's monitoring of dam
project will be ensured through completion of its  performance and emergency preparedness.
basic permanent structures, installation of its first  Cofinancing ($1.6 million) will be provided
six units, and its connection to the national grid,  by the IDB. Total cost: $17.4 million.
and future private-capital participation in the  INDIA: IBRD-$400 million. Funds will provided
scheme will be encouraged. In addition, needed   to help the National Thermal Power Corporation
environmental-protection and resettlement         (NTPC) finance a five-year time slice of its least-
measures will be implemented. Cofinancing is     cost investment program of new coal and gas-
anticipated from the IDB ($31.5 million) and      based power stations, and the corporation will be
suppliers' credits ($560.2 million). Total cost:  assisted in meeting its targets for capacity
$2,591.1 million.                                 additions through increased mobilization of funds
BULGARIA: IBRD-$93 million. A first energy         from intemal resources, domestic and foreign
project seeks to increase the efficiency of NEK,  capital markets, and through joint operations with
the national electricity company, reduce its     the private sector. In addition, the NTPS's
generating costs, enhance the stability of the   environmental and resettlement and
electric grid, add peaking capacity, and          rehabilitation-management capability will be
improve dam safety. Total cost: $126 million.    strengthened. Total cost: $4,960 million.
CHINA: IBRD-$300 million. Construction in        INDIA: IBRD-$350 million. The capacity of
Zhejiang province of China's largest pumped-      the newly established Power Grid Corporation
storage hydroelectric plant (together with        of India to improve efficiency in power
associated equipment and transmission lines)     transmission and system operations will be
will greatly increase critically needed peak-power  developed, thereby improving the efficiency
generation capability and improve the quality     of system operations, reducing transmission
of the power supply in the east China power grid.  losses, encouraging private investment in power
Institution-strengthening measures are included.  generation, and facilitating competition in power
Total cost: $720.3 million.                       generation. Cofinancing is anticipated from the
CHINA: IBRD-$ 100 million. The rapidly growing      ODA ($3 million) and the AsDB ($1 million).
demand for electricity in Fujian province will be  Total cost: $764 million.
met through the completion of a hydroelectric  INDIA: IBRD-$75 million; IDA-$115 million.
power facility-begun in 1987-on the Min river.    Private-sector investments in renewable-energy
Technical assistance and training are included.   subprojects will be financed, Tamil Nadu
Total cost: $321 million.                         Newsprint and Papers Limited's bagasse-based
GHANA: IDA-$80 million. A portion of the time       paper mill will be expanded, and technical
slice (1993-97) of the country's electricity-     assistance for institutional development of the
investment program, covering connections to      Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency
the national power grid of all the district capitals  and for the promotion of renewable-energy
not supplied from the grid, will be financed.     technologies will be provided. Cofinancing is
Institutional-strengthening assistance is included.  anticipated from DANIDA ($50 million), the
Cofinancing is anticipated from the Netherlands  GEF ($26 million), and the SDC ($4 million).
($25.1 million), DANIDA ($19.5 million), the     Total cost: $450 million.



Energy   153
INDIA: IBRD-$20 million. Technical assistance       expanding the transmission system in the Bataan/
will be provided to state electricity boards and  Batangas areas west of Manila to connect several
other power utilities to solicit and evaluate private  private-sector build-operate-and-transfer projects
power proposals. select and negotiate developers,  and by rehabilitating two units of the Bataan
as well as assist in the solicitation and selection  oil-fired thermal power plant. Technical
process for the privatization of existing utilities.  assistance to strengthen the capacity
Total cost: $20.5 million.                        of the National Power Corporation is included.
INDIA: IDA-$12 million. Bharat Coking Coal          Cofinancing ($500,000) is being provided by
Ltd. will be assisted in the preparation of a    Japan. Total cost: $159.8 million.
program to control mine fires in the Jharia    RUSSIA: IBRD-$610 million. Essential inputs
coalfield (about seventy have been identified as  will be provided to support existing oil-
being major) and to deal with the environmental   production operations in westem Siberia, thereby
and social implications of the fires. Total cost:  providing-at peak production-12 million tons
$14.3 million.                                   of incremental oil annually, representing a
INDONESIA: IBRD-$104 million. Through the           3 percent increase in national output. Cofinancing
implementation of the second phase of the Cirata  is expected from the EBRD ($250 million) and
hydroelectric scheme on the Citarum river, the   the Netherlands ($6 million). Total cost:
peaking electricity-generating capacity of the    $1,035 million.
State Electricity Corporation will be expanded  RWANDA: IDA-$26 million. The reliability
in an economically and environmentally sound     and cost-effectiveness of the national electricity
manner. Consulting services, training, and studies  system, as well as the efficiency in the use of
are included. Cofinancing ($149.2 million) is    the country's energy resources, will be increased
expected in the form of export credits. Total cost:  through a project that seeks to strengthen the
$398.8 million.                                  institutional, regulatory, and policy environment
IRAN: IBRD-$165 million. Through the addition       and rehabilitate and improve key elements of the
of generating capacity, the financing of          power infrastructure. Cofinancing is anticipated
distribution equipment, and provision of technical  from the EIB ($7.9 million) and the CCCE
assistance. the supply/demand gap in the power    ($2.7 million). Total cost: $39 million.
sector should be reduced and efficiency        TANZANIA: IDA-$200 million. A sixth power
enhancements achieved. Cofinancing in the form    project aims at meeting the growing demand for
of suppliers' or export credits ($48 million) is  electricity at least cost through the construction of
expected. Total cost: $414 million.              the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme, helping
JAMAICA: IBRD-$60 million. Urgently required       the govemment restructure the power sector,
power-generation capacity will be provided,       improving energy efficiency, and promoting the
the enabling environment needed to attract       development and operation of natural gas-fueled
private investments in the power sector will be   generation by private investors. Training and
established, and the govemment's deregulation     institution-building assistance are included.
and privatization program in the energy sector    Cofinancing is expected from the ODA
will be supported. Cofinancing ($56 million) is  ($3.] million) and, possibly, others (Belgium,
expected from the IDB. Total cost: $60 million.   DANIDA, the EIB, and NORAD) in the amount
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$120 million.              of $128.8 million. Total cost: $440.4 million.
The efficiency of the country's energy sector  THAILAND: IBRD-$109 million. The
will be improved and the reliability of petroleum  distribution system of the Metropolitan
supply enhanced by establishing a more efficient  Electricity Authority (responsible for power
supply and distribution system through the       distribution in metropolitan Bangkok) will be
construction of a pipeline network, improving     expanded, and electric energy efficiency will be
environmental quality and safety standards.       promoted through the implementation of a five-
developing an appropriate energy-conservation     year, demand-side management plan. Cofinancing
program, and increasing institutional capacity.   of distribution expansion is expected from the
Total cost: $809.7 million.                       AsDB ($109 million). while cofinancing for the
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:                   energy-efficiency component is expected from
IDA-$36 million. Electricity supply will be      the OECF ($25 million), the GEF ($9.5 million),
extended to more consumers in the country's       and Australia ($6 million). Total cost:
central and southem regions, the quality of supply  $549.6 million.
will be enhanced for existing consumers there,  THAILAND: IBRD-$105 million. The country's
and prospects for additional exports of electric  ability to increase the supply of natural gas will
power developed. Institution-building assistance  be enhanced through expansion of the gas-
is included. Total cost: $49.3 million.          transmission system and strengthening of the
PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$110 million. Power               Petroleum Authority of Thailand. Staff training
shortages in Luzon will be alleviated by          is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the



154   Summaries of Projects Approved
AsDB ($58 million) and the export-import banks   and increase production efficiency. Cofinancing is
of Japan and the United States ($52 million and  anticipated from the ODA ($4.2 million), the EC
$7.3 million, respectively). Total cost:        ($480,000), the Netherlands ($480,000), and the
$370 million.                                    UNDP ($400,000). Total cost: $31.8 million.
WESTERN SAMOA: IDA-$I million.                   MADAGASCAR: IDA-$6.3 million. Through
Supplemental funds will be provided to help     the provision of technical assistance to reorganize
finance the Afulilo Hydroelectric Project,       the central bank, strengthen the Financial
approved in fiscal 1987 in the amount of         Supervisory Commission, improve accounting
$3 million.                                      and auditing standards, and pursue privatization
of banks, investment and growth in the productive
Industry                                           sectors will be facilitated. Cofinancing is
ANGOLA: IDA-$21 million. Technical assistance      expected from USAID ($3 million), Switzerland
and training will be provided to strengthen      ($600,000), and the BITS ($500,000). Total cost:
the Banco Nacional de Angola and to develop      $10.4 million.
banking infrastructure, mainly through the     MALI: IDA-$12 million. By improving the
establishment of a national check-clearing       regulatory infrastructure for private-sector
system, construction of a training center for    operations, as well as the functioning of key
financial-sector staff, and the training of a core of  private-sector support institutions, the private
financial professionals. Total cost: $23.6 million.  sector's ability to respond to policy reforms under
BULGARIA: IBRD-$55 million. Investment             way will be improved and its prospects for
and export credits will be made available to    leading the growth of the country's economy
the private sector to encourage a strong supply  enhanced. Total cost: $13.9 million.
response to ongoing govemmental reforms and    PERU: IBRD-$250 million. The government's
to enable them to undertake efficient investments  privatization program and related sectoral policy,
and export transactions. Technical assistance will  legal, and regulatory reforms-designed to
also be provided for participating financial     promote competition and private investment
intermediaries to build capacity for project     and improve economic efficiency and fiscal
appraisal and supervision and to strengthen      performance-will be supported.
general banking functions. Total cost:         SRI LANKA: IDA-$60 million. Wide-ranging
$110 million.                                    reforms of the policy and regulatory environment
CHINA: IBRD-$250 million. By focusing on           in the financial sector will be supported, and
cost-effective water-pollution control, which is  credit will be made available to participating
accorded the highest priority in the environment-  credit institutions to enable them to offer term
management strategy for the southern Jiangsu     loans to private enterprises. Technical assistance
region (one of China's most industrialized       is included. Cofinancing is expected from US AID
locales). the widening gap between economic      ($7 million) and the Netherlands ($5 million).
development and environmental protection will    Total cost: $153.6 million.
be reduced in an efficient and effective manner.  SRI LANKA: IDA-$5.8 million. Funds from IDA
Total cost: $588 million.                        reflows will be provided to supplement the public
EGYPT: IBRD-$130 million. The govemment            manufacturing enterprise-adjustment credit,
will be assisted in implementing strategies for  approved in fiscal 1991 in the amount of
the development of the tourism sector, thereby   $120 million.
increasing foreign-exchange earnings and       TANZANIA: IDA-$11.3 million. Funds from
employment and arresting environmental           IDA reflows will be provided to supplement
degradation of the Nile river and of tourist areas  the financial sector-adjustment credit, approved
on the Red sea. In addition, a coastal zone-     in fiscal 1992 in the amount of $200 million.
management plan for the Red sea coast will     UGANDA: IDA-$ 100 million. Policy and
be developed. Total cost: $805 million.         institutional reforms in Uganda's financial system
GHANA: IDA-$41 million. Through the                will be supported, thus helping to establish the
establishment of a revolving export-credit       conditions for a deeper, more efficient, and
refinance and guarantee facility and the provision  diversified financial sector with a stronger
of technical assistance, the growth of private   banking system at its core.
exporters will be stimulated and their number  ZAMBIA: IDA-$100 million. Balance-of-
expanded, and an environment in which exporters  payments support will be provided for the
can flourish will be fostered. Total cost:       next stages of Zambia's parastatal-reform and
$51 million.                                     privatization program, a key component of the
KENYA: IDA-$23.3 million. Technical, financial,    country's ongoing structural-adjustment
and institutional assistance will be provided in  program.
support of the govemment's parastatal-reform   ZAMBIA: IDA-$20.9 million. Funds from IDA
program, designed to improve resource allocation  reflows will be provided to supplement the



Nonproject   155
privatization and industrial-reform credit,   the Netherlands ($2.2 million). Total cost:
approved in fiscal 1992 in the amount of       $106.7 million.
$200 million.                                GHANA: IDA-$6.5 million. Funds from IDA
reflows will be provided to supplement the
Nonproject                                       private-investment and sustained development-
ARGENTINA: IBRD-$450 million. This debt          promotion program, approved in fiscal 1991 in
and debt-service reduction loan, which will   the amount of $120 million.
finance interest and principal collateral for the  GUATEMALA: IBRD-$120 million. The
par bonds that Argentina will issue in exchange  govemment's economic-modemization and
for eligible debt, supports the implementation  social-development program, designed to
of a debt agreement between the country and its  strengthen public finances, improve the efficiency
commercial-bank creditors on the restructuring of  of public enterprises, further liberalize trade,
about $29 billion in public extemal debt.      promote financial-sector reform, and intensify
ARGENTINA: IBRD-$400 million. A financial-       efforts to reduce poverty, will be supported.
sector adjustment loan seeks to assist in reducing  Cofinancing ($75 million) is expected from
the role of the state in the financial sector,  the IDB.
strengthen the banking sector and its supervisory    GUINEA: IDA-$ 100,000. Funds from IDA
framework. and provide resources for the       reflows will be provided to supplement the
country's debt and debt-service reduction      second structural-adjustment credit, approved
arrangements.                                 in fiscal 1988 in the amount of $65 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA-$100 million. A second         GUYANA: IDA-$3.5 million. Funds from IDA
industrial sector-adjustment credit supports  reflows will be provided to supplement the
efforts to extend import liberalization, promote  second structural-adjustment credit, approved
exports, and develop the private sector.      in fiscal 1990 in the amount of $74.6 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA-$3.5 million. Funds from      INDIA: IBRD-$300 million. Measures recently
IDA reflows will be provided to supplement    taken by the government to liberalize further
the second industrial sector-adjustment credit,  the external sector and investment regime will
approved in fiscal 1993 in the amount of       be supported.
$100 million.                                JAMAICA: IBRD-$75 million. The remaining
BOLIVIA: IDA-$ 1.l million. Funds from IDA       gaps in the country's adjustment agenda-
reflows will be provided to supplement the     involving trade reform, deregulation of key
structural-adjustment credit, approved in      domestic productive activities, privatization,
fiscal 1992 in the amount of $40 million.      and reforms designed to enhance the business
COSTA RICA: IBRD-$ 100 million. The              environment-will be addressed.
govemment's structural-adjustment program,   KYRGYZSTAN: IDA-$60 million. This first
which aims at achieving economic stabilization  lending operation in the country provides support
and sustainable economic growth. will be supported  for the govemment's reform efforts by providing
by a third structural-adjustment loan. Cofinancing  foreign exchange for imports critical to
($80 million) is anticipated from the IDB.     production and for technical assistance critical to
ESTONIA: IBRD-$30 million. Foreign exchange      the implementation of systemic reform measures.
will be provided to finance critically needed  Total cost: $60.3 million.
imports while supporting the govemment in the  LATVIA: IBRD-$45 million. Foreign exchange
implementation of its ongoing stabilization and  will be provided to finance critically needed
structural-reform  program.                    imports and technical assistance in support
ETHIOPIA: IDA-$250 million. The govemment's      of the govemment's program of stabilization
comprehensive structural-adjustment program,   and economic reform. Cofinancing ($250,000)
designed to transform the instruments of      is being provided by Sweden.
economic management and raise investment,    LITHUANIA: IBRD-$60 million. The
particularly by the private sector, will be    govemment's economic-reform program is
supported.                                     being supported through the provision of foreign
ETHIOPIA: IDA-$25 million. Funds will be made    exchange to finance critically needed imports.
available to help finance an emergency recovery  Cofinancing (about $4 million) is being provided
and rehabilitation project for Eritrea, which  by the EC's PHARE and Sweden.
includes interventions in the productive sectors,  MALAWI: IDA-$5.9 million. Funds from IDA
infrastructure rehabilitation, community-level  reflows will be provided to supplement the
activities, and institution/capacity building.  entrepreneurship-development and drought-
Cofinancing is expected from Italy            recovery credit, approved in fiscal 1992 in
($24.3 million), the EC ($23 million), SIDA   the amount of $120 million.
($9.1 million), Denmark ($6.5 million), Germany    NICARAGUA: IDA-$8.5 million. Funds from
($5.5 million), the UNDP ($2.5 million), and   IDA reflows will be provided to supplement



156   Summaries of Projects Approved
the economic-recovery credit, approved in     BURUNDI: IDA-$10.4 million. A social-action
fiscal 1992 in the amount of $110 million.     project will improve the living conditions of
PERU: IBRD-$150 million. Supplemental funds      the rural poor (especially women and youths)
will be provided to support the govemment's    through the provision of income-generating
macroeconomic stabilization program and broad-  activities and by enhancing their access to
based structural reforms taken in macroeconomic  essential social infrastructure and potentially
policy, the fiscal sector, the social sector,  increased employment opportunities. In addition,
privatization, agriculture, and labor policy.  the govemment's poverty-monitoring capacity
PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$200 million. The               will be increased, thereby improving its
govemment's economic-integration program       formulation of social and macroeconomic policy.
will be supported by a policy loan designed to  Total cost: $15.7 million.
strengthen the country's balance-of-payments  CHILE: IBRD-$90 million. Through support
position; support the consolidation of a suitable  for critical policy and institutional reforms and
medium-term framework in which structural       priority health-facility investments, the efficiency
refom,. coupled with debt and debt-service      of resource use in the public health system will be
reduction, can be pursued in a growth-oriented  enhanced and the quality of health services in
manner: support macroeconomic management; and  selected areas improved. Total cost:
improve the environment for private investment.  $298.8 million.
POLAND: IBRD-$450 million. The govemment's    COLOMBIA: IBRD-$50 million. The health
Enterprise and Bank Restructuring and          status and welfare of nearly 8 million people,
Privatization Program, which addresses the     including 6 million classified as poor, will be
central constraints to the resumption of sustained  improved as a result of a project-representing
growth-the unclear structure of state enterprise  the first phase of a ten-to-twelve year program
ownership and the debts of those enterprises-  to strengthen the public-health system-that
will be supported. Up to $100 million of the loan  has been designed to develop local management
will be used to support a commercial debt and  capacity and provide incentives (in the form of
debt-service reduction package with the country's  central govemment grants) to support municipal
commercial creditors.                          provision of a basic package of primary health
RUSSIA: IBRD-$600 million. Foreign exchange       services. Total cost: $83.1 million.
will be provided to finance imports needed in  ECUADOR: IBRD-$70 million. Basic health
support of the country's program of stabilization  care, including nutrition and water and sanitation
and economic reform.                           coverage, will be expanded to reach the poorest
SIERRA LEONE: IDA-$300,000. Funds from           populations, the quality of basic health-care
IDA reflows will be provided to supplement     services will be improved, and the capacity of
the reconstruction-import credit, approved in  public institutions involved in the delivery of
fiscal 1992 in the amount of $43.1 million.    social services will be increased. Cofinancing
UGANDA: IDA-$1.4 million. Funds from IDA          ($500,000) is expected from the UNDP. Total
reflows will be used to supplement the structural-  cost: $102.2 million.
adjustment credit, approved in fiscal 1992 in the  GUATEMALA: IBRD-$20 mil]ion. Poverty-
amount of $125 million.                        alleviation efforts, focused in particular on
ZIMBABWE: IDA-$125 million. Funds will be        indigenous communities and women's groups,
made available in support of the second phase  will be assisted through support for social-
of the country's structural-adjustment program,  assistance, social-infrastructure, economic-
which will focus on generating a more rapid    infrastructure, and credit subprojects. to be
supply response, while continuing efforts to   financed by a newly created Social Investment
restore macroeconomic stability, improve public-  Fund. Cofinancing is anticipated from Germany
sector management, and shield the poor and     ($18 million), the BCIE ($ 10 million), the UNDP
vulnerable groups from harsh transitional effects  ($700,000), and, possibly, others ($8 million).
arising from adjustment.                       Total cost: $80 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA-$8.8 million. By
Population, Health, and Nutrition                 financing high-priority investments, through
ANGOLA: IDA-$19.9 million. Improvements           coordinating efforts with other donor agencies,
will be made to the Ministry of Health's       and by strengthening institutions and developing
policymaking and managerial capabilities, thus  human capacity-building measures, the
contributing to a better planned and more focused  govemment will be assisted in improving
development of the health sector. In addition, the  the delivery and quality of primary health care
ongoing national AIDS-control and family-       and other social services for a wider base of
planning program will be strengthened, and     the population. Total cost: $9.7 million.
selected health facilities will be rehabilitated.  HONDURAS: IDA-$25 million. More than a
Total cost: $22.2 million.                     quarter million poor people, including about



Population, Health, and Nufrition   157
120,000 pregnant and nursing women and         the government's family-planning program,
mothers of children attending the first three   health conditions in rural areas will improve
grades of primary school, are to benefit from a  and population growth rates will be reduced.
project that seeks to expand nutrition assistance  Total cost: $294 million.
and strengthen the delivery of basic health  JORDAN: IBRD-$20 million. The health status
services. In addition, some 60,000 people are to  of the population will be enhanced through
benefit from the provision of rural water supply  qualitative improvements in the Ministry of
and sanitation. Cofinancing is expected from the  Health's primary and hospital services and
WFP ($10 million), USAID ($3 million), the     through reform of the ministry's organization,
UNDP ($330,000), UNICEF ($110,000). PAHO       management. finances, and planning capacity.
($80,000), and others ($3.5 million). Total cost:  Cofinancing ($2.4 million) is anticipated from
$54.2 million.                                 Finland, France, Germany, the United Kingdom,
HUNGARY: IBRD-$91 million. Targeted, cost-       the United States, and the EC. Total cost:
effective interventions in public health, critical  $30 million.
rehabilitation of selected institutional-care  KOREA. REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-$30 million. The
facilities. the introduction of management-    access of the poor to medical-care services will be
information systems in hospitals. and training  increased, the quality of care in public hospitals
in public health and health-services           improved, and the safety and quality of food and
management will be supported. Total cost:      drugs will be better assured though a public
$132.6 million.                                hospital-modemization project that also provides
INDIA: IDA-$500 million. The initial phase of    for institution-building assistance and preparation
the government's social safety-net sector-     and implementation of an action plan and studies
adjustment program, which mainly covers        on major health-policy issues. Total cost:
primary education; primary health care;        $43.6 million.
disease control; nutrition; and compensation,  MADAGASCAR: IDA-$21.3 million. Food
redeployment, and retraining of surplus workers  insecurity and malnutrition in the country's two
from state enterprises, will be supported.     most food-insecure provinces will be reduced
Cofinancing is anticipated from the EC         through income-generating projects and targeted
($184.5 million), the AsDB ($100 million),     nutrition programs that will be implemented by
the Netherlands ($55.6 million), USAID         nongovemmental organizations and local
($35 million), and Germany ($31.3 million).    communities. Cofinancing is expected from
INDIA: IDA-$194 million. The pace of              the WFP ($7.3 million), Japan ($500,000), and
improvement in the nutritional and health status  UNICEF ($400,000). Total cost: $32.4 million.
of preschool children and pregnant and nursing  MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$6.3 million. The
women will be accelerated by strengthening the  national capacity to analyze the major causes
present Integrated Child Development Services  of food insecurity in the country will be
model in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh through      enhanced. and macro and sectoral programs
improved service delivery, communications,     designed to relieve household food insecurity
worker and supervisor training, and monitoring  will be designed and implemented. Cofinancing
and evaluation. Total cost: $248.8 million.     is anticipated from the FAO ($1 million) and the
INDIA: IDA-$85 million. By financing the          Save the Children Fund ($500,000). Total cost:
incremental costs of a six-year time slice of  $8.2 million.
an enhanced National Leprosy Eradication     NICARAGUA: IDA-$25 million. A range of
Program, leprosy could be eliminated as a public-  small-scale subprojects in social and economic
health problem by the year 2000. Total cost:   infrastructure and social services will be financed
$138.3 million.                                through the country's Social Investment Fund
INDONESIA: IBRD-$93.5 million. As many            (FISE), thus helping the government to sustain
as 1.5 million families living in five provinces  its efforts at poverty reduction and maintain
(three from the Eastem region) are expected to  social cohesion during the period of economic
benefit from a project designed to elevate infant,  adjustment. Technical assistance is included.
child, and maternal health status by improving  Cofinancing is anticipated from the IDB
the effectiveness of community health and      ($16 million), Germany ($13 million),
nutrition interventions. Cofinancing is expected  Switzerland ($3.5 million), Japan ($700,000),
from Germany ($18.5 million). Total cost:      and the UNDP ($400,000). Total cost:
$164.1 million.                                $68 million.
IRAN: IBRD-$141.4 million. By expanding        PAKISTAN: IDA-$48 million. The health status
the primary health-care network-primarily in   of people living in the provinces of Balochistan
selected rural areas where health conditions are  and Punjab will be improved as a result of a
particularly poor and existing health services are  project designed to assist in the implementation
relatively inadequate-and through expansion of  of provincial health-development programs



158   Summaries of Projects Approved
emphasizing primary health care and preventive   equipment, institutional and staff capacities
and promotional services. Cofinancing is          will be created to provide the support required
expected from Germany ($22.2 million) and the     for sustainable growth of the private sector.
ODA ($12.2 million). Total cost: $114 million.    Total cost: $9 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD-$6.9 million.              GUYANA: IDA-$12 million. Basic public
Family-planning service delivery will be          services will be improved by establishing a
supported as will a group of activities designed  longer-term salary structure (thus enabling the
to build up long-term capacity for the population  government to attract and retain essential staff)
program. Cofinancing is anticipated from          and by carrying out a related recruitment
the AIDAB ($10 million) and the AsDB              program. In addition, the government will be
($6.8 million). Total cost: $32.7 million.        assisted in strengthening economic-policymaking
PHILIPPINES: IDA-$70 million. Improvements          and key public-sector management systems. Total
in service delivery, institutional strengthening  cost: $22 million.
of the health departments of project local     HUNGARY: IBRD-$132 million. Reforms in the
governments and of the Department of Health's    social-insurance system-designed to improve
capacity (after devolution) to support local     the targeting of cash benefits, improve efficiency
health departments, and support for local         in the system and introduce new incentive
nongovernmental organizations active in          structures, control expenditures and increase
the health and nutrition field are intended to    productivity in the health sector. and increase
benefit directly the health and nutrition status of  institutional capacity-will be supported. Total
an estimated 900,000 slum-dwelling households     cost: $201.3 million.
living in urban areas of Metro Manila, Metro   MADAGASCAR: IDA-$1.4 million. Funds
Cebu, and Cagayan de Oro. Cofinancing             from IDA reflows will be provided to
($3.1 million) is anticipated from Australia. Total  supplement the public-sector adjustment
cost: $82.2 million.                              credit, approved in fiscal 1988 in the amount
VENEZUELA: IBRD-$94 million. Low-income             of $125 million.
populations in rural and peri-urban areas      MAURITANIA: IDA-$2.2 million. Funds from
throughout the country are to benefit from a      IDA reflows will be provided to supplement
project that seeks to control both vector and     the public enterprise sector-adjustment credit,
waterbome endemic diseases (malaria, in           approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount of
particular). In addition, the planning and        $40 million.
management capacity of public-health           PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$63 million. Improvements
institutions to control endemic diseases will    in tax administration will be supported through
be increased. Total cost: $188 million.           provision of technical assistance, staff training,
YEMEN: IDA-$26.6 million. The Ministry of           hardware, software, priority equipment. and
Public Health will be assisted in contributing    facilities. Total cost: $106.2 million.
to the implementation of the national population  RUSSIA: IBRD-$70 million. The capacity of
policy, articulated in 1991, to reduce fertility and  the Federal Employment Service to process
matemal and infant mortality. Technical           the anticipated upsurge of benefit claims from
assistance and training are included. Total cost:  the rapidly growing numbers of unemployed
$30.2 million.                                   following economic restructuring and
ZIMBABWE: IDA-$64.5 million. The incidence          privatization will be increased through the
and impact of sexually transmitted infections     provision of equipment and technical assistance.
will be reduced through provision of critical     Institution-building assistance is included.
programmatic and commodity support to the         Total cost: $133 million.
government's program for sexually transmitted  SIERRA LEONE: IDA-$1  million. A program of
disease prevention and care. Cofinancing         technical assistance has been designed to increase
($14.8 million) is expected from the ODA. Total  the effectiveness of budgeting and expenditure
cost: $87.3 million.                              control and accountability (focal points of the
government's reform program), standards of
public administration, and the efficiency (while
ARGENTINA: IBRD-$300 million. Assistance           reducing the size) of the public-enterprise sector.
will be made available for privatizing/           Total cost: $11.2 million.
restructuring of public industrial enterprises,  URUGUAY: IBRD-$11 million. Technical
reducing public finances and deficits, and        assistance will be provided to support the
improving the environment for competitive         government's program of public-enterprise
private-sector activity and investment.           reform/privatization, especially in the fields
BURKINA FASO: IDA-$7 million. Through the           of telecommunications, power, and transport.
financing, over a four-year period, of consultant  Cofinancing ($2.4 million) is being provided by
services, expert advise, and the purchase of     Japan. Total cost: $19 million.



Technical Assistance    159
Technical Assistance                              COTE D'IVOIRE: IDA-$17 million. Technical
assistance and training, as well as a complement
ALBANIA: IDA-$4 million. The govemment's            of new equipment, will be provided so as to build
ability to formulate and implement reforms in    capacity in the Ministry of Economy, Finance,
macroeconomic management, enterprise             and Plan, the Ministry of Employment and Civil
restructuring and privatization, and financial-   Service, and the Ministry of Justice to assist
sector reform  will be improved through the      the govemment in implementing its medium-term
provision of technical assistance. Total cost:   economic-adjustment program. Total cost:
$4.6 million.                                    $20.1 million.
ARMENIA: IBRD-$12 million. This first loan to     EQUATORIAL GUINEA: IDA-$2.4 million.
Armenia will help finance an institution-building  The govemment will be assisted in maximizing
project designed. in the short run, to help the   revenues from the off-shore Alba condensate and
govemment design and implement economic-          gas field and in strengthening its technical and
reform programs and, in the longer run, to       financial capability to monitor oil companies'
develop the govemment's institutional capacity    activities in the country. Total cost: $2.7 million.
to manage a private market economy and build up    NIGERIA: IDA-$20 million. The govemment's
the private sector. Cofinancing is expected from  efforts in the areas of fiscal management,
USAID ($3.7 million) and the EC ($1 million).     privatization, and commercialization will be
Total cost: $17.2 million.                        supported. In addition. through an institutional-
BOLIVIA: IDA-$4.8 million. Support will be          support and studies component, assistance
provided to build up the technical capacity of    will be provided to key agencies involved in
newly created environmental institutions and to  implementing the govemment's reform program.
help the govemment design a policy framework      Cofinancing ($1 million) is anticipated from the
that responds to critical environmental needs,    UNDP. Total cost: $27 million.
primarily in the areas of deforestation, soil   PERU: IBRD-$30 million. The govemment will
erosion, water pollution, and loss of biodiversity.  be assisted in the preparation and implementation
In addition. education initiatives to raise social  of its privatization program and related sectoral
awareness of environmental issues will be         policy, legal, and regulatory reforms. Cofinancing
supported. Total cost: $5.5 million.              ($6.5 million) is expected from Canada, Japan,
CHILE: IBRD-$11 .5 million. The institutional       the CAF, and the UNDP. Total cost: $43.3 million.
framework to manage environmental protection   PERU: IBRD-$11.8 million. An energy and
and conservation of natural resources will be     mining technical-assistance project seeks to assist
established, and priority sectors engaged in     the govemment in implementing sector strategies
environmental protection and conservation of      and policies (especially demonopolization
natural resources will be supported. thereby     and privatization of state-owned enterprises),
contributing to Chile's sustainable and efficient  complete the legal and regulatory reform of
economic development. Total cost: $32.8 million.  the energy and mining sectors, and strengthen
CHINA: IDA-$60 million. Technical assistance,       the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
training, and equipment. designed to strengthen   Energy and Mines. Cofinancing ($3 million) is
institutional capacity and policymaking          anticipated from Japan. Total cost: $17.5 million.
capabilities of the central bank and the Ministry  RUSSIA: IBRD-$90 million. Assistance to help
of Finance. will be provided in support of the   implement the govemment's privatization
development of an efficient and stable financial  program will be provided, and technical
sector. Cofinancing ($4.6 million) is to be       assistance in the areas of policy formulation
provided by Japan. Total cost: $65.7 million.     and design of enterprise reform. privatization,
CHINA: IDA-$50 million. About a dozen discrete      corporate govemance, anti-monopoly activities,
subprojects. to be executed by institutions involved  and business development will also be fumished.
in activities related to China's economic-reform  Cofinancing ($43.4 million) is expected from the
program, will be financed. In addition, a line of  EBRD. Total cost: $159.4 million.
credit will be made available to finance feasibility    TANZANIA: IDA-$34.9 million. Support will
studies. preinvestment, and technical assistance  be provided the govemment in implementing
needed to prepare projects for future World Bank  its parastatal-reform and civil-service reform
assistance. Total cost: $60 million.              program and in improving selected aspects of
CHINA: IDA-$50 million. Technical assistance,       its macro-management system. Cofinancing
designed to strengthen the capacities and selected  ($7 million) is expected from the ODA. Total
policies and programs of two institutions of      cost: $45.7 million.
national importance to China's environment.    TANZANIA: IDA-$20 million. Accounting and
the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the          auditing standards will be improved, as will the
National Environmental Protection Agency,        legal framework and the administration of justice,
will be provided. Total cost: $76 million.        through a project that aims at strengthening



160   Summaries of Projects Approved
key institutions involved in both activities      telecommunications sector will be supported
through improvements in their human and          through technical assistance to strengthen
material resources. Cofinancing ($200,000) is    institutional capabilities and the financing of
anticipated from SIDA. Total cost: $22.5 million.  a time slice of the 1992-94 investment program
UGANDA: IDA-$29 million. The quantity,              of the National Post and Telecommunications
quality, and timeliness of key financial data that  Authority. Cofinancing, amounting to about
underpin decision making will be increased and   $330 million, is anticipated from Canada, France,
improved through the introduction of new         Sweden, and export-credit agencies. Total cost:
systems and equipment at the Ministry of Finance  $1,203.6 million.
and Economic Planning, the Uganda Revenue      PHILIPPINES: IBRD-$ 134 million. The part
Authority, and the Bank of Uganda. Staff training  of the Philippine Long Distance Telephone
is included. Total cost: $33 million.            Company's investment program for 1992-96
UKRAINE: IBRD-$27 million. The government           that aims, for the most part, at extending and
will be assisted in implementing economic        improving telephone facilities in provincial
reforms in three areas-enterprise reform,        areas, will be financed. Institution-building
financial-sector reform, and public financial    assistance is included. Total cost: $288 million.
management-and strengthening institutions      TANZANIA: IDA-$74.5 million. A market-
essential to the transition to a market economy   oriented regulatory and policy framework for the
through the provision of consulting services,     telecommunications sector will be established,
training, and equipment. Total cost:             and the local and long-distance network will be
$29 million.                                     rehabilitated and expanded. Institution-building
VENEZUELA: IBRD-$30 million. This first             assistance is included. Cofinancing is expected
instance of Bank support for judicial reforms    from the AfDB ($45.9 million), SIDA
seeks to improve the country's enabling          ($41.7 million), the EC ($17.2 million), DANIDA
environment for private-sector development        ($8.3 million), and the JICA ($2.2 million). Total
and reduce both the private and social costs     cost: $220.1 million.
of litigation by financing investments in      Transportation
the management of the judicial system,
administration of the courts, training of judicial  ALBANIA: IDA-$18 million. Roads will be
personnel, and rehabilitation of physical         rehabilitated, maintained, or constructed (and
infrastructure. Total cost: $60 million.         maintenance equipment and spare parts provided);
ZAMBIA: IDA-S8.5 million. Through provision         quays and port surfaces at Durres will be repaired;
of policy support and capacity-building           and technical assistance and training provided.
assistance, the elements required for the creation  Cofinancing ($6.4 million) is anticipated from
of a sustainable. efficient system for managing the  the KFAED. Total cost: $27 million.
country's road network will be put in place. In  ANGOLA: IDA-$41 million. Transportation
addition, detailed preparatory engineering work  infrastructure, a casualty of the country's
for the first-year program of a proposed multiyear  civil war, will be rehabilitated and overdue
roads-rehabilitation project will be financed.    maintenance performed. In addition, employment
Total cost: $9 million.                          in the private sector will be promoted through
the development of small and medium-scale
*l'elecommunications                                enterprises using labor-intensive technologies in
BULGARIA: IBRD-$30 million. The                     road-maintenance activities. Technical assistance
government's policy and institutional reforms     is included. Cofinancing is expected from SIDA
of the telecommunications sector will be         ($3.3 million) and the CCCE and DANIDA
supported, and the 1993-97 time slice of the      ($3 million each). Total cost: $64.9 million.
sector's least-cost investment program will be  ARGENTINA: IBRD-$340 million. A four-year
financed. Cofinancing is expected from the EIB   time slice of the routine and periodic-
($75.1 million) and the EBRD ($39.4 million).     maintenance program of the National Highway
Total cost: $339.8 million.                       Directorate (DNV). as well as of that
GUINEA: IDA-$14.6 million. The newly created        organization's road-reconstruction needs, will
Societe des telecommunications and the Office    be financed. Technical assistance and training
de la poste guineenne will be launched on a       are included. Total cost: $756 million.
firm basis by financing key appointments in    BRAZIL: IBRD-$88 million. The condition of
administrative and operational positions. In     the road networks in the states of Alagoas
addition, the Ministry of Communication will      and Santa Catarina will be improved by ensuring
be reorganized as the policymaker and regulator   that adequate priority is given to funding for
for the sector. Total cost: $16.6 million.       rehabilitation and maintenance, designing and
MOROCCO: IBRD-$ 100 million. Sector reform         implementing appropriate rehabilitation and
and physical expansion of the country's           maintenance strategies and programs, and



Transportation    161
strengthening maintenance capabilities.          construction of an access-controlled expressway
Environmental guidelines for state roads will    (120 kilometers), rehabilitation and improvement
also be developed and implemented. Total cost:    of five provincial roads, and the upgrading to
$224.3 million.                                   all-weather status of six rural roads. Total cost:
CAPE VERDE: IDA-$ 12.5 million. The country's       $300.7 million.
comparative advantage for the production of    ETHIOPIA: IDA-$96 million. Urgently needed
intemational services will be enhanced through    rehabilitation of the country's main transport
port and shipping modemization, as well as        lifeline (portions of the Addis Ababa-Assab road,
institutional development; in addition, land-    in particular) will be financed to ensure that
transport costs and domestic freight rates will be  it remains open and functional. In addition,
reduced by improving road conditions, reorganizing  govemment efforts to install an axle-load control
inter-island shipping, and rehabilitating port    system, strengthen highway management, and
facilities at Fogo island. Cofinancing is         maintain an adequate road-maintenance program
anticipated from BADEA ($10 million), the         will be supported. Total cost: $109.3 million.
Swedish Import Support Program ($10 million),  GHANA: IDA-$76.2 million. The cost of travel
Germany ($7 million), the OPEC Fund for           will be reduced and the quality of transport
Intemational Development ($5 million), France    services will be increased by improving road
($5 million), the EIB ($5 million), the ADF       surfaces and reducing congestion in Accra
($3.9 million), and the Netherlands               and Sekondi/Takoradi. In addition, transport
($3.3 million). Total cost: $78.4 million.       terminals and selected junctions in Ghana's five
CHAD: IDA-$37 million. A program of road            main cities will be improved, and fifty kilometers
maintenance and bridge strengthening on the       of nonmotorized vehicle tracks constructed in
country's existing priority road network will     Accra. Total cost: $87.6 million.
be undertaken, and about 300 kilometers of     GUYANA: IDA-$26 million. Deteriorated critical
secondary roads that link a region of agricultural  sections of the country's sea-defenses system
potential and main consumption centers will be    will be repaired and reconstructed, and. through
rehabilitated. Institution-strengthening measures  a program of rehabilitation and maintenance of
are included. Cofinancing is expected from the    roads and institution-building assistance, the
EDF ($22 million), the BEAC ($15 million), the   overall performance and efficiency of the transport
OPEC Fund for Intemational Development            sector will be improved. Cofinancing is expected
($6 million), and the CFD ($4.2 million). Total  from the CDB ($6 million). Total cost: $34 million.
cost: $121.4 million.                          HONDURAS: IDA-$65 million. The institutional
CHINA: IBRD-$420 million. The Ministry of           and regulatory framework of the transportation
Railways' efforts in preparing the railway system  sector will be improved, and transport
to better serve a future market-oriented economy  infrastructure in the country's main trade
by making available more railway services and by  corridors will be improved and rehabilitated. thus
improving the quality and efficiency of services  supporting the govemment's export-led growth
will be supported through a project designed to  strategy. Cofinancing is expected from the IDB
provide a balanced focus between institutional    ($190 million), Spain ($50 million), the CABEI
development and technological modemization.       ($30 million), USAID ($20 million), and Taiwan,
Total cost: $1,183.5 million.                     China ($20 million). Total cost: $545.7 million.
CHINA: IBRD-$240 million. Congestion in two       HUNGARY: IBRD-$90 million. The backlog of
major traffic corridors in Guandong province      highway-rehabilitation works will be addressed
will be relieved through the construction of 226  and a road-safety program implemented through
kilometers of new, four-lane, divided highways.   a project that also provides technical assistance
In addition. more than 1.000 kilometers of       designed to improve the effectiveness of roads
provincial and national roads will be upgraded    administration and expenditure, particularly in
and rehabilitated. Technical assistance and       maintenance. Total cost: $161.1 million.
training are included. Total cost: $795.1 million.    INDONESIA: IBRD-$155 million. Through
CHINA: IBRD-$150 million. Shanghai's                provision of civil works; routine and periodic
congested port facilities along the Huangpo river  maintenance; equipment, spare parts, and supplies;
will be relieved through provision of new and    training; and technical assistance, the capability of
replacement cargo-handling equipment and the      govemment agencies that manage the development
first-stage construction of two new terminals     of district roads will be enhanced, and the quality
located away from the city center. Technical     and capacity of the road network in selected
assistance is included. Total cost: $424.3 million.  districts in eastem Indonesia will be improved
CHINA: IBRD-$120 million. Henan province's         in a sustainable way. Total cost: $331.3 million.
road network will be improved, with a particular    INDONESIA: IBRD-$42.1 million. In the wake
focus on relieving congestion in the heavily     of the December 1992 earthquake on the island of
trafficked east-west corridor, through the        Flores that killed almost 2,000 people and caused



162   Summaries of Projects Approved
an estimated $274 million in damage to homes   demand. In addition, urgently needed track-
and public infrastructure, roads and bridges will  maintenance equipment, spare pans, and training
be reconstructed, as will education, health, and  will be provided to the railways. Cofinancing is
other facilities. Technical assistance is included,  being provided by the EBRD and the EIB
and measures to help mitigate the impact of    ($80 million each). Total cost: $405 million.
possible future disasters will be introduced. Total    SEYCHELLES: IBRD-$4.5 million. Tourist
cost: $62.9 million.                           access on Praslin island will be facilitated through
JORDAN: IBRD-$35 million. An economically        rehabilitation of the main road network, airport
and financially viable and efficient transport  improvements, and the enhancement of reliable
sector will be promoted through the continued  water supplies, while environmentally sensitive
upgrading of foreign-trade arteries, especially  areas elsewhere will be preserved or restored
seriously substandard road sections;           through support for programs in resource
rehabilitation and strengthening of priority road  management, biodiversity conservation,
links and provision of technical assistance in the  and marine pollution control. Cofinancing
areas of policy and institutional development.  ($1.8 million) is being provided by the GEF.
Cofinancing ($19.9 million) is anticipated from  Total cost: $7 million.
the EIB. Total cost: $80.1 million.          SIERRA LEONE: IDA-$45 million. The first
MEXICO: IBRD-$480 million. Past investments      four-year time slice of a seven-year road-
in the federal highway network will be protected  rehabilitation and road-maintenance program
and enhanced through investments in            will be financed, thus bringing the country's
rehabilitation and resurfacing of paved highways,  road network back from a state of near collapse.
and a road traffic-safety program, which seeks  Institution-building assistance is included.
to increase public road-safety awareness and   Cofinancing is expected from the AfDB
improve driver behavior, will be undertaken.   ($14.4 million), the EC ($11.9 million), the
Institution-strengthening measures are included.  UNDP ($5.7 million), and the JICA ($5 million).
Cofinancing, totaling $120,000, is expected from  Total cost: $92.7 million.
France, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Total    VENEZUELA: IBRD-$150 million. The
cost: $1,560 million.                          deterioration of the existing highway network
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$9.3 million. The                will be slowed through improved maintenance,
government will be assisted in its restructuring  and the management of public highways
of the Empresa Nacional de Porto e Caminhos    and related funding will be strengthened
de Ferro de Mocambique in order to improve its  through the implementation of a program of
long-term efficiency. Cofinancing is anticipated  decentralization and institution building.
from USAID ($600,000) and the ODA              Cofinancing ($200 million) is being provided
($100,000). Total cost: $10.5 million.         by the IDB. Total cost: $840 million.
NIGERIA: IDA-$85 million. Inter-city transport  WESTERN SAMOA: IDA-$5. 1 million.
within Oyo and Osun states will be improved and  Supplemental finance will be supplied to help
transport costs reduced through improvements   fund the ongoing Emergency Road Rehabilitation
in the condition of the two state road networks.  Project, approved in fiscal 1990 in the amount
Institution-building assistance is included. Total  of $14 million.
cost: $118 million.
NIGERIA: IDA-$68 million. A sustainable        Urban Development
improvement program for high-priority roads  ALGERIA: IBRD-$200 million. A quick housing-
in Jigawa and Kano states will be supported    supply response will be triggered and market-
through institutional strengthening and the    oriented reforms of the housing sector supported
financing of civil works to upgrade, rehabilitate,  and enhanced by accelerating the completion of
and maintain roads. Total cost: $91.8 million.  both the public-housing program and the private
POLAND: IBRD-$150million.Themodernization         unfinished stock through the supply of
and transformation of the transport sector will be  construction materials and the provision of
supported and accelerated through the financing of  technical assistance on sector-policy formulation
a portion of the investment program of the General  and implementation. Total cost: $585.2 million.
Directorate of Public Roads. Institution-building  ARGENTINA: IBRD-$170 million. Flood-
assistance is included. Total cost: $296.8 million.  reconstruction needs (in transport, energy,
ROMANIA: IBRD-$120 million. More than 1,000      housing, education and health facilities. and water
kilometers of national roads will be rehabilitated,  and sewerage services, as well as for emergency
and material and equipment, as well as technical  flood-control works) will be financed, and a
assistance and training, will be provided to   sound institutional framework for coordination
the road subsector, thus helping to increase   and implementation of the government's overall
the efficiency of the transport sector and     rehabilitation program will be provided. Total
accommodate expected changes in transport      cost: $318.6 million.



Urban Development   163
BRAZIL: IBRD-$128.5 million. The financial,        income households as owner-occupants will
institutional, and organizational policy changes  directly benefit from a project that provides a
required to achieve sustainable, integrated      replicable system for providing low-income
multimodal transport in the Rio de Janeiro        families with serviced lots at affordable prices.
metropolitan region will be consolidated. In     Total cost: $321.5 million.
addition, stations, track, rolling stock, power  MOROCCO: IBRD-$104 million. Subloans
supply, and fencing of the right of way will be  to local govemments will fund about
rehabilitated, and associated equipment will      250 subprojects aimed at rehabilitating and
be provided. Total cost: $272 million.           expanding urban and rural infrastructure and
CHINA: IDA-$10 million. The planning and            services. In addition, technical assistance and
delivery of urban services to four major cities in  training will help improve the institutional
Zhejiang province will be strengthened through    capabilities of the communal infrastructure fund
provision of technical assistance and finance for  (FEC) and local govemments as well as central
investments in water supply and waste disposal,  infornation systems to monitor the local sector
land development, traffic management, and        Total cost: $182.3 million.
pollution control. Total cost: $231 million.   MOZAMBIQUE: IDA-$23.2 million. The
LEBANON: IBRD-$175 million. The                     government's decentralization program will be
govemment's National Emergency                    supported by assisting its municipal reform and
Reconstruction Program, designed as a            capacity-building initiatives through a program of
multisectoral operation focusing on emergency    technical assistance and studies. Total cost:
repairs and the rehabilitation of physical and    $24.5 million.
social infrastructure, will be supported. Total  PAKISTAN: IDA-$ 100 million. The govemment
cost: $223.9 million.                             will be assisted in implementing a national
MAURITANIA: IDA-$12 million. Temporary              program aimed at restoring vital infrastructure
new employment opportunities will be created     destroyed or damaged in the September 1992
in urban areas through the implementation        floods in order to minimize the disruption
of a program of labor-intensive public-works      to economic activity and social services.
projects, a package of technical and managerial  Cofinancing ($ 100 million) is expected from
assistance and training will be offered to private  the AsDB. Total cost: $397.2 million.
local contractors and engineering firms, and   SIERRA LEONE: IDA-$26 million. Essential
institution-building assistance will be provided to  urban infrastructure to support economic
relevant government entities. Cofinancing ($4.8   growth in Greater Freetown and, in particular,
million) is expected from the UNDP,              to improve living conditions of low-income
the WFP, France. and (possibly) the EC,          households will be provided. Institutional
Germany, and Spain. Total cost: $20 million.      support and technical assistance are included.
MEXICO: IBRD-$220 million. The govemment's          Total cost: $36 million.
program to reduce air pollution in Mexico City  SRI LANKA: IDA-$20 million. Transport
will be aided through a project that supports     bottlenecks and traffic congestion in
the development of emission standards for new    central Colombo will be ameliorated, thereby
vehicles; provides lines of credit to finance either  reducing the economic costs of traffic delays.
the replacement of old, high-use vehicles         In addition, traffic-safety improvements
with new, emission-controlled vehicles or their  will be implemented, and adequate air-quality
conversion to LPG or natural gas; and finances    standards and emission-control measures
the installation of vapor-recovery systems at gas  will be promoted. Institutional-strengthening
stations. Technical assistance and institutional-  measures are included. Cofinancing is anticipated
strengthening measures are included. Total cost:  from CIDA ($500.000) and the UNDP
$1,086.7 million.                                ($500,000). Total cost: $25.3 million.
MEXICO: IBRD-$200 million. The quality and       TUNISIA: IBRD-$75 million. Through a program
efficiency of urban-transport systems in medium-  of institutional strengthening and the financing of
sized cities will be improved, the federal       priority infrastructure investments. the efficiency
govemment will be assisted in decentralizing      of local govemments (municipalities and
responsibility for the provision and maintenance  regional councils) in decision making, resource
of urban services and infrastructure,             mobilization and allocation, and project financing
economically justified improvements to transport  and implementation will be enhanced. Total cost:
infrastructure will be financed, and the adverse  $207.7 million.
environmental effects of urban-transport       TURKEY: IBRD-$285 million. Essential housing,
operations will be mitigated. Total cost:         infrastructure, and other facilities damaged
$471.1 million.                                  during the March 1992 earthquake in
MOROCCO: IBRD-$ 130 million. Some 2,800             the northeast part of the country will be
resettled squatter households and 9,150 low-     reconstructed.



164   Summaries of Projects Approved
Water Supply and Sewerage                        INDONESIA: IBRD-$80 million. About 2 million
BRAZIL: IBRD-$245 million. A cost-effective         people living in some 1,400 poor villages are
approach to control water pollution in two of the  expected to benefit from a project that will
most congested and polluted metropolitan areas   provide safe, adequate. and easily accessible
of the country will be developed through the      water-supply and sanitation services and support
creation of two urban water-basin authorities-   a program of health and hygiene education. Total
for the Guarapiranga river near Sao Paulo and    cost: $123.3 million.
for the upper Iguacu river in Curitiba-and the  KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD-SI 10 million.
financing of water pollution-control investments.  Wastewater-treatment plants in Kwangju
Total cost: $494 million.                         and Seoul will be expanded, thereby alleviating
BRAZIL: IBRD-$145 million. A substantial            pollution of the Yongsan river and the lower
portion of the population of the metropolitan area  reaches of the Han river and significantly
of Belo Horizonte, estimated at about 3 million  reducing health hazards now posed for
people, is expected to benefit from a project that  downstream agriculture, the municipal and
seeks to restore water quality in the system of   industrial water supply, and recreation. Total cost:
rivers and reservoirs and improve the standard   $530.7 million.
of living in areas surrounding the water bodies.  NIGERIA: IDA-$63 million. Existing storm
Technical assistance is included. Total cost:    drainage on Lagos mainland and nearby Lagos
$307.6 million.                                  island and Apapa will be reconstructed, dredged,
BURKINA FASO: IDA-$4.2 million. The                 regraded, and aligned, thus improving the long-
Ouagadougou Water Supply Project will be          term ability of the Lagos metropolitan area to
prepared by financing consultant services for     sustain and improve its function as an urban
the preparation of final designs and bidding     center. Technical assistance and training are
documents, the dam and transmission-main         included. Cofinancing ($2 million) is expected
components, and the environmental-assessment      from the JICA. Total cost: $85.8 million.
and resettlement plan. Institution-building    PAKISTAN: IDA-$91.9 million. Supplemental
assistance is included. Cofinancing ($2.3 million)  funds will be made available to help finance the
is expected from the CFD. Total cost:            Second Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation
$6.6 millione                                     Project, approved in fiscal 1989 in the amount
CHINA: IDA-$120 million. Changchun                  of $125 million.
Municipality's water supply will be improved so    PARAGUAY: IBRD-S23 million. About 250,000
as to meet domestic needs of the urban population  rural dwellers will benefit from the building of
and support industrial growth, and industrial and  water-supply systems and sanitation facilities
domestic water pollution will be reduced through  through differential service levels based on
physical works and changes in the institutional  community ability to pay for and maintain
and regulatory framework. Total cost:            them. Technical assistance, as well as equipment
$266.3 million.                                   and spare parts, will also be provided. Total cost:
COSTA RICA: IBRD-$26 million. The                   $36.3 million.
government and the Costa Rican Water Supply    SRI LANKA: IDA-$24.3 million. About 650,000
and Sewerage Institute (AyA) will be helped      people living in rural areas (and, to a lesser extent,
in their attempt to strengthen the institutional  small towns) are expected to benefit from a
framework for the provision of water and         project that will develop, implement, and
sewerage services in the country. In addition    maintain community-based water-supply and
segments of San Jose's population will benefit   sanitation schemes. Total cost: $32.3 million.
fro  th costucton f eweagefailiiesin TURKEY: IBRD-$ 129.5 million. The demand
from the construction of sewerage facilities in  for water-supply, sewerage, flood-protection,
low-income areas of the city. Total cost:         and solid-waste services in Greater Bursa-the
$40 million.
INDIA: IDA-$92 million. About 1,200 villages        country's fifth largest city-will be met through
in Karnataka state, encompassing 4.8 million      a program of civil works and the supply of
people, are to benefit from a project that seeks  equipment. In addition, the management of
to improve access to potable rural water-supply  thovs  i cwial assistance Total cost:
systems (through construction of new, or         prvs.o   on.
rehabilitation of existing, water-supply schemes)  $258.4 millon.
and environmental-sanitation facilities (through
programs focusing on latrine usage and provision
of sullage drains). Total cost: $117.8 million.



Trends in Lending    165
Table 7-1. Trends in Lending, IBRD and IDA, Fiscal Years 1991-1993
1991                  1992                    1993
Sector                   IBRD    IDA    Total   IBRD   IDA    Total   IBRD    IDA    Total
mtillions of' [JS dolitrs
Agriculture and rural
development            1,913.1 1,794.2  3,707.3  2,525.7 1.368.4  3.894.1  1,918.8 1,347.9  3,266.7
Development finance
companies              1.695.0  156.8  1,851.8   802.0  223.3  1,025.3   582.0  -    582.0
Education                1.515.5  736.2  2,251.7  1,299.6  584.1  1,883.7   968.0 1,038.2  2,006.2
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal     1,750.0  149.2  1.899.2   879.0  115.6   994.6   928.0   45.1   973.1
Power                  1,189.0  155.0  1,344.0  2,813.9  228.0  3,041.9  2,093.0  520.0  2,613.0
Industry                 1.767.1  215.9  1,983.0   382.7  406.0   788.7   685.0  401.6  1.086.6
Nonproject               1,940.0  881.9  2.821.9  1.970.0 1.460.1  3.430.1  2.980.0  600.8  3.580.8
Population. health, and
nutrition               647.0  920.6  1,567.6   307.0  654.7   961.7   706.8 1,104.8  1,811.6
Public-sector management   636.0    5.7   641.7   525.0   76.7   601.7   576.0   32.6   608.6
Small-scale enterprises   166.0   45.0   211.0    60.0     -      60.0     -      -        -
Technical assistance      104.5   93.2   197.7    69.4  127.0   196.4   212.3  300.6   512.9
Telecommunications        270.0   69.8   339.8   375.0   55.0   430.0   264.0   89.1   353.1
Transportation            915.9  472.1  1,388.0  1,618.7  490.8  2.109.5  2.584.6  584.1  3,168.7
Urban development        1.077.1  178.3  1,255.4   994.0  382.6  1,376.6  1,687.5  291.2  1,978.7
Water supply and
sewerage                806.0  419.4  1,225.4   534.0  377.4   911.4   758.5  395.4  1,153.9
Total                   16,392.2 6,293.3 22,685.5 15,156.0 6.549.7 21,705.7 16,944.5 6,751.4 23,695.9
percentage distriblution
Agriculture and rural
development              11.7   28.5    16.3    16.7   20.9    17.9    11.3   20.0    13.8
Development finance
companies                10.3    2.5     8.2     5.3    3.4     4.7      3.4    -       2.5
Education                   9.2   11.7     9.9     8.6    8.9     8.7      5.7   15.4     8.5
Energy
Oil. gas, and coal       10.7    2.4     8.4     5.8    1.8    4.6       5.5    0.7     4.1
Power                     7.3    2.5     5.9    18.6    3.5    14.0    12.4    7.7    11.0
Industry                   10.8    3.4     8.7     2.5    6.2     3.6     4.0    5.9      4.6
Nonproject                 11.8   14.0    12.4    13.0   22.3    15.8    17.6    8.9    15.1
Population. health. and
nutrition                 3.9   14.6    6.9      2.0   10.0    4.4       4.2   16.4     7.6
Public-sector management    3.9   0.1      2.8     3.5    1.2    2.8       3.4    0.5     2.6
Small-scale enterprises     1.0   0.7      0.9     0.4     -      0.3      -      -        -
Technical assistance        0.6    1.5    0.9      0.5    1.9    0.9       1.3   4.5      2.2
Telecommunications          1.6    1.1      1.5    2.5    0.8      2.0     1.6    1.3     1.5
Transportation              5.6    7.5    6.1    10.7    7.5       9.7    15.3    8.7    13.4
Urban development           6.6    2.8     5.5     6.6    5.8     6.3    10.0   4.3       8.4
Water supply and
sewerage                  4.9    6.7     5.4     3.5    5.8     4.2      4.5    5.9     4.9
Total                     100.0  100.0   100.0   10(.0  100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0
- Zero.



166    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-2. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1993, by
Region
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans                        IDA credits                           Total
Region and country                                                Number   AmoLint   Number   Amount   Number    Amount
Africa
Angola ...........................                                -                    -              3               81.9              3                81.9
Benin ............................                                -                    -              I                 3.8             1                 3.8
Burkina  Faso  ............                .........              -                    -              3               18.7              3                18.7
Burundi ..........................                                -                    -              2               13.5              2                13.5
Cape  Verde  .............                 .........              -                    -              I                12.5             1                12.5
Chad   ............................                               -                    -              2               56.3              2                56.3
C6te  d'lvoire  ............               .........              -                    -              2               23.7              2                23.7
Equatorial Guinea .................                               -                    -              1                 2.4             1                 2.4
Ethiopia ..........................                               -                    -              3             371.0               3              371.0
Gabon ...........................                                   1               22.5              0                  -              I                22.5
Gambia, The  ............                  .........              -                    -              1               12.3              1                12.3
Ghana  ...........................                                -                    -              7             354.4               7              354.4
Guinea ...........................                                -                    -              3               85.5              3                85.5
Guinea-Bissau ....................                                -                    -              I                 8.8             1                 8.8
Kenya  ...........................                                -                    -              3              114.8              3              114.8
Madagascar  .............                  .........              -                    -              3               32.7              3               32.7
Malawi ...........................                                -                    -              2               76.7              2               76.7
Mali .............................                                -                    -              1               12.0              1                12.0
Mauritania  ..............                 .........              -                    -              2               26.7              2               26.7
Mauritius .........................                                 1               20.0              0                 -               I               20.0
Mozambique ......................                                 -                    -              6              122.9              6              122.9
Nigeria ...........................                               -                    -              5             244.0               5              244.0
Rwanda ..........................                                 -                    -              1               26.0              1               26.0
Senegal ..........................                                -                    -              1               40.0              1               40.0
Seychelles ........................                                 1                 4.5             0                  -              I                 4.5
Sierra  Leone  ............                .........              -                    -              3               81.3              3                81.3
Tanzania .........................                                -                    -              4             340.7               4              340.7
Uganda ..........................                                 -                   -               5             223.8               5    2 23.8
Zambia  ..........................                                -                    -              4              194.4              4              194.4
Zimbabwe ........................                                 -                    -              2              189.5              2              189.5
Total  ..........................                               3                47.0            72           2,770.3              75            2,817.3
East Asia and Pacific
China ............................                                 10           2.155.0               8           1,017.0              18           3,172.0
Indonesia .........................                                 8             867.6             -                    -              8              867.6
Korea, Republic of ................                                 4             320.0             -                   -               4              320.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic..                                -                    -              2               55.0              2               55.0
Malaysia ......................                                     2             248.0             -                    -              2              248.0
Papua New Guinea ................                                   2               41.9            -                   -                2              41.9
Philippines  ..............                .........                5             558.3               1               70.0              6              628.3
Solomon  Islands  .........                 .........             -                    -              1               16.9              1                16.9
Thailand  ......................2                                                 214.0             -                    -              2              214.0
Western  Samoa  .........                 ..........                                   -                                6.1           -                   6.1
Total  ..........................                              33           4.404.8              12           1,165.0              45            5,569.8
South Asia
Bangladesh  .......................                               -                   -                              171.5              2              171.5
India .............................                                 5           1.145.0              10           1,532.7              15           2,677.7
Nepal ............................                                -                    -              I               28.0              1               28.0
Pakistan ..........................                               -                    -              5             428.9               5              428.9
Sri Lanka  . .......................                              -                    -              3              110.1              3              110.1
Total ..........................                                 5           1.145.0             21           2,271.2              26            3,416.2



Pojects Approved by Region    167
IBRD loans                           IDA credits                                 Total
Region and country                                                        Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Number    Amount
Europe and Central Asia
Albania ..........................                                         -                     -                 4               44.4                 4                 44.4
Armenia ..........................                                                             12.0              -                    -                  I                 12.0
Bulgaria ..........................                                         3               178.0               -                     -                 3                178.0
Estonia ..........................                                           1                30.0              -                      -                 I                30.0
Hungary  .........................                                           4              413.0               -                     -                 4               413.0
Kyrgyzstan .......................                                        -                     -                  I               60.0                  1                60.0
Latvia   ...........................                                         1               45.0               -                      -                 1                45.0
Lithuania .........................                                          1               60.0               -                     -                  I                60.0
Moldova .........................                                            1                26.0              -                     -                  1                26.0
Poland ...........................                                          3               900.0               -                      -                3                900.0
Romania .........................                                            I              120.0               -                      -                 I               120.0
Russian Federation ................                                         4            1,370.0                -                     -                 4             1.370.0
Turkey ...........................                                          4               558.5                -                     -                4                558.5
Ukraine ..........................                                           I               27.0               -                     -                  I                27.0
Total ..........................                                       25            3,739.5                   5               104.4               30             3,843.9
Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina   ...............                     .........                    6           1,960.0                -                     -                 6             1,960.0
Bolivia ...........................                                       -                     -                 3               106.6                 3                106.6
Brazil ............................                                         5               818.5               -                     -                 5               818.5
Chile   ............................                                         3              146.5               -                      -                 3               146.5
Colombia .........................                                          3               350.0               -                      -                 3               350.0
Costa  Rica   ..............                   .........                     2              126.0               -                      -                2                126.0
Ecuador    .                                      ......                  2                 145.0   -                                 -                 2    145.0
El Salvador .......................                                          1                40.0              -                     -                  1                40.0
Guatemala ........................                                          2                140.0              -                      -                2                140.0
Guyana ..........................                                          -                     -                 2                41.5                 2                41.5
Honduras  ...............                       .........                  -                     -                3               135.1                 3                135.1
Jamaica ..........................                                           3              167.0                -                     -                 3               167.0
Mexico  ..........................                                           5           1.154.0                -                     -                 5             1,154.0
Nicaragua ........................                                        -                      -                 1               33.5                  1                33.5
Paraguay .........................                                           1                23.0              -                     -                  I                23.0
Peru .............................                                          3               441.8               -                     -                  3               441.8
Uruguay ..........................                                                            11.0              -                     -                  I                 11.0
Venezuela ........................                                          4                329.0                                    -                 4                329.0
Total ..........................                                       41            5,851.8                   9              316.7                50             6.168.5
Middle East and North Africa
Algeria ........................2                                                           240.0                -                    -                  2               240.0
Egypt ............................                                           1              130.0                  2               77.5                 3                207.5
Iran. Islamic Republic of ...........                                       3               463.4               -                     -                  3               463.4
Jordan ...........................                                          2                 55.0               -                     -                 2                 55.0
Lebanon .........................                                            1              175.0               -                     -                  1               175.0
Morocco .........................                                           4               549.0               -                     -                 4                549.0
Tunisia ...........................                                         2               144.0               -                      -                 2               144.0
Yemen ...........................                                             _                 -                  2               46.3                 2                 46.3
Total  . .........................                                     i5            1,756.4                   4              123.8                19             1,880.2
Grand  total ...........                   ..........                 122           16,944.5               123             6,751.4               245            23,695.9
- Zero.
NOTE: Supplements are included in the amount but are not counted as separate lending operations. Joint IBRD/IDA
operations are counted only once, as IBRD operations.



168    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-3. IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Major Purpose and
Region, June 30, 1993
(millions of US dollars)
IBRD loans to borrowers, by region'
Latin
East              Europe   America   Middle
Asia                and     and the   East and
and     South    Central    Carib-    North
Purposeb                            Africa    Pacific   Asia       Asia      bean     Africa     Total
Agriculture and rural development
Agricultural credit ...... ......    319.8    886.5   1,078.5   1,996.4   2,910.9   1,155.9    8,348.0
Agriculture sector loan ........    107.3    562.3    226.3    595.7   3,038.1    609.0    5,138.7
Agroindustry .................       30.0    620.2      61.4    894.1   1,228.4    224.2    3,058.3
Area development ...... ......  1,628.6   1.599.9    283.2    738.0   3,870.4    258.5    8,378.6
Fisheries ....................        -       92.7      14.0       7.0       16.2     41.0      170.9
Forestry .....................    372.0       78.0        -      221.0     116.0    190.5       977.5
Irrigation and drainage ........    110.2  3,920.0    814.6   1,421.4   2,769.5   1,604.2   10,639.9
Livestock ....................    170.7       80.0    248.0      179.5   1.042.0      46.5    1.766.7
Perennial crops ...............    634.5   1,525.4        -       50.0      123.0     58.0    2.390.9
Research and extension   .......    154.2    423.4      25.0    209.9      735.0      52.5    1.600.0
Total ......................  3,527.3  9,788.4  2,751.0   6.313.0  15,849.5  4,240.3   42.469.5
Development finance companies ..   1,284.0  4,405.0  2,187.2   3,575.3   8,013.1   2.540.8   22,005.4
Education ......................    542.5  3,986.3        55.0   1,055.3   3,079.5   1,719.2   10,437.8
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal ....... ......    400.2   1,711.0  4,466.5   2,213.4   1,410.2    660.7   10,862.0
Power .......................  1,782.1  10,431.7  9,104.6   4,413.2  11,599.7  2,052.3   39,383.6
Total ......................2. 2,182.3  12,142.7  13,571.1   6,626.6  13,009.9  2,713.0   50,245.6
Industry
Engineering ..................       27.7      10.0       -         -        9.5      11.0       58.2
Fertilizer and other chemicals. .     -      758.0   1,570.3    603.9    848.5        27.0    3,807.7
Industry sector loan ..........      15.6  1,728.8   1.691.4   1,959.0   1.659.5    716.7    7,771.0
Iron and steel ................     20.0        -      189.0    281.0   1.067.0    231.8    1,788.8
Mining, other extractive .......    533.5       -         -         -      997.5    237.2    1,768.2
Paper and pulp ........ .......     48.4       5.5    104.2    209.1        20.0      50.0      437.2
Textiles .....................       63.0    157.4        -      167.7        -      139.6      527.7
Tourism sector loan ...........      54.5      25.0       -       56.0      187.5    170.6      493.6
Total ......................    762.7  2,684.7  3.554.9   3,276.7   4.789.5   1,583.9   16,652.4
Nonproject .....................  2,068.6  4,029.3    610.0   6,280.9'  6,930.6  2,105.0   22.024.4c
Population, health, and nutrition ..    289.4    717.9    31.3    446.0   1,456.8    421.6    3,363.0
Public-sector management ........        -      95.0        -      402.0   2,090.0    130.0    2,717.0
Small-scale industry ....... ......    440.7   1,266.5    80.0    460.0   1,985.6    354.0    4,586.8
Technical assistance ....... ......    138.8     95.0       -       155.2    418.3       57.8      865.1
Telecommunications ....... ......    510 .2  1,284.7    712.5    410.3    508.3    671.5    4,097.5
Transportation
Airlines and airports ..........     59.0       9.2      5.6       7.0    218.5         -       299.3
Highways ....................  1.817.8  5,422.4    738.9   2,402.2   7,173.5   1,356.1   18.910.9
Pipelines .....................       -         -       37.0        -       23.3      57.5      117.8
Ports and waterways ..........    285.9  1,558.5    437.2    625.8         523.7    967.0    4,398.1
Railways ....................    733.5  2,970.8   1,406.4   1,093.0   1,938.5    237.5    8,379.7
Transportation sector loan  .....    66.1    5_7.2    184.0    432.0    259.6         30.0    1,498.9
Total ......................  2,962.3  10,488.1  2,809.1   4,560.0  10,137.1  2.648.1  33,604.7
Urban development ............ .      933.7  2,908.3    319.1      639.2   5.187.6  1.621.1   11,609.0
Water supply and sewerage ......  1.169.8   1,857.4    103.0   1,295.8   4,062.7   1,987.5   10,476.2
Grand total ............... 16,812.3  55,749.3  26,784.2  35.496.3  77,518.5  22,793.8  235,154.4
- Zero
a. Except for the total amount shown in footnote d, no account is taken of cancellations subsequent to original commitment.
IBRD loans to the IFC are exclided.
b. Operations have been classified by the major purpose they finance. Many projects include activity in more than one sector
or subsector.



Cumulative Lending Operations, by Purpose and Region    169
IDA credits to borrowers, by region
Latin
East                   Europe     America      Middle
Asia                    and       and the     East and                    IBRD
and        South       Central     Carib-      North                      and
Africa       Pacific      Asia        Asia        bean       Africa       Total         IDA
554.0      743.2       2.209.4        -          23. 5       74.2      3,604.3       11.952.3
1,369.4      283.7        193.5      20.0          1.4          -        1,868.0       7.006.7
364.5      218.0        716.9         -          16.5        45.0      1,360.9       4.419.2
1,627.1    1,368.3      1,154.9       2.4        108.6       168.1       4,429.4      12,808.0
55.7       88.2         199.1        -           -          67.3        410.3         581.2
391.0      520.2        699.1         -         38.9          -        1,649.2       2,626.7
855.6     1,016.1      5,906.9      80.0         18.5       396.5      8.273.6      18,913.5
479.7       88.1        267.1       20.5        67.5          5.0        927.9       2,694.6
488.9      300.5        283.0       15.0          3.2         -        1,090.6       3,481.5
650.1       120.5       767.8         -          21.0        20.4      1,579.8       3.179.8
6,836.0    4,746.8     12,397.7      137.9       299.1       776.5      25,194.0      67,663.5
1.476.1      211.5        563.2      35.0        144.1        64.0       2,493.9      24,499.3
2,715.1     1,360.1     2,267.1        -         176.9       358.5       6,877.7      17,315.5
450.0       66.0        390.4         -         148.2        74.0      1.1128.6      11,990.6
1,562.1      308.8      3.745.5      25.7        201.7       252.9       6,096.7      45.480.3
2,012.1      374.8      4,135.9       25.7       349.9       326.9       7,225.3      57.470.9
44.0         -            -          -           -           -           44.0         102.2
35.0       35.0        904.0        -            -          21.4        995.4       4,803.1
1,011.2       71.3        337.3        -           -          29.5       1.449.3       9,220.3
40.0         -            -          -           -           -           40.0        1,828.8
19.9       16.0           -         -          49.5          -           85.4       1,853.6
50.0         -            -          -           -           -           50.0         487.2
20.0       29.7         75.0        -            -           7.0        131.7         659.4
18.0       16.0          4.2        -            -         48.5          86.7         580.3
1.238.1      168.0      1,320.5        -          49.5       106.4       2,882.5      19,534.9
4,311.7      110.0      3,899.2      101.1       484.3        35.0       8.941.3      30,965.7c
1,073.6      487.9      2,316.5        -         170.0       303.6       4,351.6       7,714.6
405.0         -            -          -          12.0         -          417.0       3,134.0
228.7       56.5        311.5         -         27.5          2.3        626.5       5.213.3
968.1      240.7        125.5        4.0        43.3         32.6      1,414.2       2,279.3
441.2       101.8       882-.2        -           -          83.0      1,508.2       5,605.7
14.0        7.5          2.5        -            -           -           24.0         323.3
3,225.4      590.2        867.1        -         338.3        180.2      5.201.2      24,112.1
-          -            -          -            -           -            -           117.8
423.2       161.2       262.0         -          16.0         9.2        871.6       5,269.7
628.6      206.7       1,017.5        -         45.0         38.5      1,936.3       10,316.0
545.4        19.8       314.7       18.0          -          30.0        927.9       2,426.8
4,836.6      985.4      2,463.8       18.0       399.3       257.9       8.961.0      42,565.7
1,152.3      492.4      1,522.3       2.3        127.0        73.0       3,369.3      14.978.3
930.1      494.2       1.847.6        -          78.8       203.2      3,553.9      14,030.1
28.624.7    9,830.1     34,053.0      324.0      2.361.7     2,622.9     77,816.4     312,970.8d
c. Includes $497 million in European reconstruction loans made before 1952.
d. Cancellations amount to $20,156.4 million for the IBRD and $3,620.5 million for IDA, totaling $23.776.9 million.



170    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 74. Projects Approved for IBRD and IDA Assistance in Fiscal Year 1993, by
Sector
(millions of US dollars)
Sector'                                                                                   IBRD                  IDA                  Total
Agriculture and Rural Development
Albania-Agriculture sector loan .....................                                       -                  20.0                2-0.0
Albania-Area development                      .........................                     -                   2.4                   2.4
Benin-Agricultural credit ...........................                                       -                   3.8                   3.8
Burkina Faso-Agriculture sector loan ................                                       -                   7.5                   7.5
Burundi-Agroindustry                   .............................                        -                   3.1                   3.1
Chile-Irrigation  and drainage  .......                 ................                  45.0                   -                  45.0
China-Agroindustry  ...........                  ....................                   325.0                 165.0                490.0
China-Area development ...........................                                          -                 115.0                115.0
China-Area development ...........................                                          -                 147.0                147.0
China-Irrigation and drainage .......................                                   100.0                 100.0                200.0
Colombia-Agricultural credit .......                    ................                250.0                    -                 250.0
Egypt-Area development ...........................                                          -                  22.0                 22.0
El Salvador-Agriculture  sector loan ......                    ...........               40.0                    -                  40.0
Gabon-Forestry ...................................                                        22.5                   -                  2 2.5
Gambia. The-Research  and extension                        ...............                  -                  12.3                  12.3
Ghana-Agriculture  sector loan .......                    ...............                   -                  18.1                  18.1
Ghana-Livestock ..................................                                          -                  22.5                 22.5
Guinea-Agriculture  sector loan  .......                   ..............                   -                  20.8                 20.8
Hungary-Agricultural credit .......                    .................                100.0                    -                 100.0
India-Area development ........                     ...................                     -                106.0                 106.0
India-Area development .........                     ..................                     -                 117.0                117.0
India-Irrigation and drainage  .......                  ................                    -                  54.7                 54.7
India-Perennial crops ..........                 ....................                       -                  92.0                 92.0
Indonesia-Irrigation  and drainage ......                   .............                54.0                    -                  54.0
Indonesia-Irrigation  and drainage ......                   .............                32.0                    -                  32.0
Iran, Islamic Republic of-Irrigation  and drainage                    .....             157.0                    -                 157.0
Kenya-Agriculture sector loan ......................                                        -                  19.4                  19.4
Kenya-Agricultrual sector loan  .......                    ..............                   -                  20.0                 20.0
Madagascar-Agricultural credit                     .....................                    -                   3.7                   3.7
Malawi-Agriculture sector loan .......                     ..............                   -                  45.8                 45.8
Malawi-Agriculture sector loan ......                     ...............                   -                  25.0                 25.0
Moldova-Agriculture sector loan ....................2 6.0                                                        -                  26.0
Morocco-Irrigation and drainage ......                     ..............               215.0                    -                 215.0
Mozambiqtte-Agriculture  sector loan ......                     ..........                  -                  20.0                 20.0
Nepal-Irnigation and drainage .......................                                       -                  28.0                 28.0
Pakistan-Irrigation  and drainage  ......                  ..............                   -                  54.2                 54.2
Pakistan-Irrigation  and drainage  ......                  ..............                   -                  28.8                 28.8
Philippines-Irrigation  and drainage ......                   ............               51.3                    -                  51.3
Poland-Agricultural credit ..........................                                   300.0                    -                 300.0
Tunisia-Forestry ..................................                                       69.0                   -                  69.0
Turkey-Agricultural credit ........                    .................                  77.0                   -                  77.0
Uganda-Research  and extension  ......                     ..............                   -                  25.0                 25.0
Uganda-Research  and extension  ......                     ..............                   -                  15.8                 15.8
Venezuela-Agriculture sector loan  ......                     ............                55.0                   -                  55.0
Zambia-Agriculture  sector loan .......                    ..............                   -                  33.0                 33.0
Total ............................................                                 1,918.8              1,347.9              3,266.7



Projects Approved by Sector    171
Sectors                                                                                                      IBRD                              IDA                              Toral
Development Finance Companies
China .....................................                                                              150.0                                  -                             150.0
Colombia  .................................                                                               50.0                                  -                              50.0
Ecuador  ..................................                                                               75.0                                  -                              75.0
Indonesia .................................                                                             307.0                                   -                            307.0
Total  ...................................                                                          58.0                                    -                            582.0
Education
Algeria ....................................                                                              40.0                                  -                              40.0
Bangladesh ................................                                                                  -                               68.0                               68.0
Bolivia ....................................-                                                                                                50.7                              50.7
Bolivia ....................................-                                                                                                40.0                              40.0
Brazil .....................................                                                            212.0                                   -                            212.0
Chad  ....................................                                                                   -                               19.3                               19.3
China .....................................                                                                  -                              100.0                             100.0
C6te  d'lvoire  ...............                         ...............                                      -                                 6.7                               6.7
Egypt .....................................                                                                  -                               55.5                              55.5
Ghana ....................................                                                                   -                               45.0                              45.0
Ghana  ....................................                                                                  -                               65.1                              65.1
India  ....................................                                                                  -                              165.0                             165.0
Jamaica ...................................                                                               32.0                                  -                              32.0
Kenya  ....................................                                                                  -                               52.1                              52.1
Korea, Republic of .........................                                                              60.0                                  -                              60.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic ...........                                                                 -                                19.0                             19.0
Malaysia ..................................                                                              107.0                                  -                             107.0
Malaysia ..................................                                                              141.0                                  -                             141.0
Mauritania ................................                                                                  -                                12.5                             12.5
Mauritius   ..................................2.20.0                                                                                            -                              20.0
Mexico   ...................................                                                              80.0                                  -                              80.0
Mexico  ..................................                                                               174.0                                  -                             174.0
Mozambique . .............................                                                                   -                               48.6                              48.6
Mozambique . .............................                                                                   -                                15.5                              15.5
Nigeria   ...................................                                                                -                                 8.0                               8.0
Pakistan   ..................................                                                                -                              106.0                            106.0
Papua New Guinea .........................                                                                35.0                                  -                              35.0
Senegal ...................................                                                                  -                               40.0                               40.0
Solomon   Islands  .............                          ..............                                     -                                16.9                             16.9
Turkey ....................................                                                               67.0                                  -                              67.0
Uganda ...................................                                                                   -                               52.6                               52.6
Yemen ....................................-                                                                                                  19.7                               19.7
Zambia ...................................                                                                   -                               32.0                              32.0
Total  ...................................                                                          968.0                            1,038.2                          2,006.2
Energy
Oil, gas, and coal
Bulgaria ...................................                                                              93.0                                  -                              93.0
Honduras ..................................                                                                  -                               33.1                               33 l
India   .....................................                                                                -                                12.0                             12.0
Korea, Republic of .........................                                                             120.0                                  -                            120.0
Russian Federation .........................                                                            610.0                                   -                            610.0
Thailand .................................                                                               105.0                                  -                             105.0
Total ...................................                                                           928.0                                45.1                            973.1
(continued)



172    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 74  (continued)
Sector'                                                                                            IBRD                            IDA                           Total
Energy (continued)
Power
Argentina .................................                                                      300.0                             -                           300.0
China .....................................                                                      100.0                             -                           100.0
China .....................................                                                      300.0                             -                           300.0
Ghana ....................................                                                            -                         80.0                             80.0
Guinea  ...................................-                                                                                    50.0                             50.0
Honduras .................................                                                           -                          12.0                              12.0
India .....................................                                                      400.0                             -                           400.0
India  .....................................                                                       75.0                        115.0                           190.0
India .....................................                                                      350.0                             -                           350.0
India .....................................                                                        20.0                            -                             20.0
Indonesia .................................                                                      104.0                             -                           104.0
Iran. Islamic  Republic  of  .......                       ............                          165.0                             -                           165.0
Jamaica ...................................                                                        60.0                            -                             60.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic                                ..........                           -                          36.0                             36.0
Philippines  .          ...............................                                          110.0                             -                           110.0
Rwanda ...................................                                                           -                          26.0                             26.0
Tanzania ..................................                                                           -                       200.0                             200.0
Thailand ...........                                                                              109.0                            -                           109.0
Western Samoa ............................                                                           -                            1.0                                   b
Total ...................................                                                  2093.0                          520.0                        2,613.0
Industry
Angola-Engineering .-                                                                                                           21.0                              21.0
Bulgaria-Industry sector loan                                                                      55.0                            -                             55.0
China-Industry sector loan .250.0                                                                                                  -                           250.0
Egypt-Tourism sector loan .130.0                                                                                                   -                           130.0
Ghana-Industry sector loan                                                                            -                         41.0                             41.0
Kenya-Industry sector loan                                                                           -                          23.3                             23.3
Madagascar-Engineering                                                                                -                           6.3                             6.3
Mali-Industry sector loan .-                                                                                                    12.0                              12.0
Peru-Mining, other extractive                                                                    250.0                             -                           250.0
Sri Lanka-Industry sector loan                                                                        -                         60.0                             60.0
Sri Lanka-Industry sector loan                                                                        -                           5.8                              5.8b
Tanzania-Industry sector loan                                                                         -                          11.3                            1t1,'
Uganda-Industry sector loan                                                                           -                        100.0                           100.0
Zambia-Industry sector loan                                                                           -                        100.0                           100.0
Zambia-Industry sector loan                                                                           -                         20.9                             20.9b
Total .685.0    401.6                                                                                                                                     1,086.6
Nonproject
Argentina .................................                                                      450.0                             -                           450.0
Argentina .................................                                                      400.0                             -                           400.0
Bangladesh ................................                                                          -                         100.0                            100.0
Bangladesh ................................                                                          -                            3.5               3        ,       5
Bolivia ....                                                             1......,,,,,.........                                    1.1                           I I    b
Costa  Rica  ................................                                                     100.0                            -                           100.0
Estonia ...................................                                                        30.0                            -                             30.0
Ethiopia ..................................                                                          -                        250.0                            250.0
Ethiopia ..................................                                                          -                          25.0                             25.0
Ghana ...................................                                                             -                           6.5                            6.5b
Guatemala ................................                                                        120.0                            -                           120.0
Guinea   ...................................                                                          -                           0.1                              0.1l



Projects Approved by Sector    173
Sector'                                                                                                      IBRD                              IDA                              Total
Nonproject (continued)
Guyana ...................................                                                                  -                                  3.5
India   .....................................                                                             300.0                              -                               300.0
Jamaica ...................................                                                                 75.0                             -                                 75.0
Kyrgyzstan ................................                                                                -                                 60.0                               60.0
Latvia   ....................................                                                               45.0                             -                                 45.0
Lithuania  .................................                                                                60.0                             -                                 60.0
Malawi  ...................................                                                                 -                                  599h
Nicaragua .................................                                                                 -                                  8.5                               8 5b
Peru  .....................................                                                               150.0                              -                                150.0"
Philippines . ...............................                                                             200.0                              -                               200.0
Poland  ....................................                                                              450.0                              -                               450.0
Russian Federation .........................                                                              600.0                              -                               600.0
Sierra  Leone   ................                         ..............                                     -                                  0.3                               0.3
Uganda ...................................                                                                 -                                   1.4                               14b
Zimbabwe .................................                                                                  -                               125.0                            125.0
Total  ...................................                                                         2,980.0                             600.8                          3,580.8
Population, Health, and Nutrition
Angola .-                                                                                                                                     19.9   19.9
Burundi .-                                                                                                                                    10.4    10.4
Chile   .....................................                                                               90.0                             -                                 90.0
Colombia  .................................                                                                 50.0                             -                                 50.0
Ecuador ..................................                                                                  70.0                             -                                 70.0
Guatemala .................................                                                                 20.0                             -                                 20.0
Guinea-Bissau .............................                                                                 -                                  8.8                                8.8
Honduras .................................                                                                  -                                25.0                              25.0
Hungary ..................................                                                                  91.0                             -                                 91.0
India   .....................................                                                               -                               194.0                            194.0
India   .....................................                                                               -                              500.0                             500.0
India   .........                     ............................                                          -                                85.0                              85.0
Indonesia .................................                                                                 93.5                             -                                 93.5
Iran, Islamic Republic of ....................                                                            141.4                              -                                141.4
Jordan ....................................                                                                 20.0                             -                                 20.0
Korea. Republic of .........................                                                                30.0                             -                                 30.0
Madagascar . ..............................                                                                 -                                21.3                              21.3
Mozambique   ................                            ..............                                     -                                  6.3                               6.3
Nicaragua .................................                                                                 -                                25.0                              25.0
Pakistan  ..................................                                                                -                                48.0                              48.0
Papua New Guinea .........................                                                                    6.9                            -                                   6.9
Philippines ................................                                                                -                                70.0                              70.0
Venezuela .................................                                                                 94.0                             -                                 94.0
Yemen ....................................                                                                  -                                26.6                               26.6
Zimbabwe .................................                                                                  -                                64.5                               64.5
Total  ...................................                                                            706.8                          1,104.8                          1.811.6
Public-sector Management
Argentina .................................                                                            300.0                                 -                               300.0
Burkina Faso ..............................                                                                -                                7.0                                  7.0
Guyana ...................................                                                                  -                             12.0                                  12.0
Hungary ..................................                                                             132.0                                 -                               132.0
Madagascar . ..............................                                                                 -                               1.4                                   1.4b
(continued)



174    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 74 (continued)
Sectora                                                                                                     IBRD                               IDA                              Total
Public-sector Management (continued)
Mauritania . ...............................                                                                 -                               2.2                               2.2
Philippines ................................                                                              63.0                                 -                             63.0
Russian Federation .........................                                                              70.0                                 -                             70.0
Sierra  Leone   ...............                         ...............                                      -                              10.0                              10.0
Uruguay ..................................                                                                11.0                                -                              11.0
576.0                              32.6                            608.6
Technical Assistance
Albania ...................................                                                                  -                               4.0                                4.0
Armenia ..................................                                                                 12.0                                -                              12.0
Bolivia ....................................                                                                 -                               4.8                               4.8
Chile   .....................................                                                              11.5                                -                              11.5
China .....................................                                                                  -                              50.0                             50.0
China .....................................                                                                  -                             60.0                               60.0
China .....................................                                                                  -                              50.0                              50.0
C6te  d'lvoire  ...............                         ...............                                      -                              17.0                              17.0
Equatorial Guinea ..........................                                                                 -                               2.4                               2.4
Nigeria   ................................. ..                                                               -                              20.0                             20.0
Peru ......................................                                                               30.0                                 -                             30.0
Peru  ......................................                                                               11.8                                -                              11.8
Russian Federation .........................                                                              90.0                                 -                             90.0
Tanzania ..................................                                                                  -                              34.9                              34.9
Tanzania ..................................-                                                                                                20.0                              20.0
Uganda ...................................                                                                   -                             29.0                              29.0
Ukraine ...................................                                                               27.0                                -                              27.0
Venezuela .................................                                                               30.0                                 -                             30.0
Zambia ...................................                                                                   -                               8.5                               8.5
Total  . ..................................                                                          212.3                            300.6                             512.9
Telecommunications
Bulgaria ...................................                                                              30.0                                 -                             30.0
Guinea ....................................                                                                  -                              14.6                              14.6
Morocco ..................................                                                               100.0                                -                             100.0
Philippines ................................                                                             134.0                                -                             134.0
Tanzania ..................................                                                                  -                              74.5                              74.5
Total  . ..................................                                                         264.0                               89.1                            353.1
Transportation
Albania-Transportation sector loan                                     .........                             -                              18.0                              18.0
Angola-Railways ..........................                                                                   -                             41.0                               41.0
Argentina-Highways ........                                 ..............                              340.0                                  -                           340.0
Brazil-Highways ..........................                                                                88.0                                -                              88.0
Cape Verde-Transportation sector loan ......                                                                 -                              12.5                              12.5
Chad-Transportation sector loan ............                                                                 -                              37.0                             37.0
China-Highways ..........................                                                                120.0                                 -                            120.0
China-Ports and waterways ......                                    ..........                           150.0                                 -                            150.0
China-Railways ...........................                                                              240.0                                  -                            240.0
China-Railways ...........................                                                              420.0                                  -                           420.0
Ethiopia-Highways ........................                                                                   -                             96.0                               96.0
Ghana-Highways ..........                                 ...............                                    -                              76.2                             76.2
Guyana-Highways ........................                                                                     -                              26.0                              26.0
Honduras-Highways ........                                   ..............                                  -                              65.0                             65.0
Hungary-Transportation sector loan    ........                                                            90.0                                -                              90.0
Indonesia- Highways   ........                               ..............                              155.0                                -                             155.0
Indonesia- Highways   ........                               ..............                               42.1                                 -                             42.1



Projects Approved by Sector    175
Sector'                                                                                                   IBRD                             IDA                             Total
Transportation (continued)
Jordan-Highways .........................                                                                35.0                               -                              35.0
Mexico-Highways .........                                ...............                               480.0                                -                            480.0
Mozambique-Ports and waterways    ..........                                                                -                              9.3                              9.3
Nigeria-Highways .........................                                                                  -                            68.0                              68.0
Nigeria-Highways .........................                                                                  -                            85.0                              85.0
Poland-Highways .........................                                                              150.0                                -                            150.0
Romania-Highways .......................                                                               120.0                                -                            120.0
Seychelles-Transportation sector loan   .......                                                            4.5                              -                               4.5
Sierra Leone-Highways  .......                                 ............                                 -                            45.0                             45.0
Venezuela-Highways ........                                ..............                              150.0                                -                            150.0
Western Samoa-Highways                                   .................                                  -                              5.1                              5.1 b
Total  . ..................................                                                     2,584.6                             584.1                         3.168.7
Urban Development
Algeria ....................................                                                           200.0                                -                            200.0
Argentina .................................                                                            170.0                                -                            170.0
Brazil .....................................                                                           128.5                                -                            128.5
China .....................................                                                                 -                           110.0                            110.0
Lebanon ..................................                                                             175.0                                -                            175.0
Mauritania . ...............................                                                                -                             12.0                             12.0
Mexico  ...................................                                                            200.0                                -                            200.0
Mexico ...................................                                                             220.0                                -                            220.0
Morocco ..................................                                                             130.0                                -                            130.0
Morocco ..................................                                                             104.0                                -                            104.0
Mozambique   ...............                          ...............                                       -                            23.2                             23.2
Pakistan   ............                     ......................                                          -                           100.0                            100.0
Sierra  Leone   ...............                        ...............                                      -                            26.0                              26.0
Sri Lanka ..................................                                                                -                            20.0                              20.0
Tunisia   . ..................................                                                           75.0                               -                              75.0
Turkey ....................................                                                            285.0                                -                            285.0
Total  . ..................................                                                     1,687.5                            291.2                          1,978.7
Water Supply and Sewerage
Brazil .....................................                                                           145.0                                -                            145.0
Brazil .....................................                                                           245.0                                -                            245.0
Burkina Faso ..............................                                                                 -                              4.2                              4.2
China .....................................                                                                 -                           120.0                            120.0
Costa Rica .................................                                                             26.0                               -                              26.0
India   .....................................                                                               -                            92.0                             92.0
Indonesia ..................................                                                             80.0                               -                             80.0
Korea. Republic of .........................                                                           110.0                                -                            110.0
Nigeria   . ..................................                                                              -                            63.0                             63.0
Pakistan ..............-                                                                                                                 91.9                             91 9b
Paraguay ..................................                                                              23.0                               -                              23.0
Sir Lanka  ............................... ..                                                               -                            24.3                              24.3
Turkey ....................................                                                            129.5                                -                            129.5
Total  ...................................                                                         758.5                           395.4                          1,153.9
Grand total ..............................                                                     16.944.5                         6,751.4                          23,695.9
- Zero.
NOTE: For additional details, see Tables 7-5 and 7-6.
a. Many projects include activity in more than one sector or subsector.
b. Supplementary financing to a previous loan, not counted as a separate operation.



176    Summcaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-5. Statement of IBRD Loans Approved during Fiscal Year 1993
Principal
amount
Borrower or guarantor and purpose                                 Date of approval  Maturities  (US$ millions)
Algeria
Basic and Secondary Education Support Project ...........   16-Mar-93             199712010       40.0
Housing Completion and Sector Development Project ......   04-Mar-93              1997/2010      200.0
Argentina
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project .......   03-Jun-93            1998i2008       340.0
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan .......        ................   16-Feb-93     1998/2008       400.0
Second Public Enterprise Reform Loan ...................   05-Jan-93              1997/2010       300.0
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan ......         ............    05-Jan-93     1998/2008      450.0
Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project 11 ........................   29-Sep-92            1997/2009      300.0
Flood Rehabilitation Project .............................    29-Sep-92           1997/2009       170.0
Armenia
Institution Building Project ..............................   30-Mar-93           1998/2013        12.0
Brazil
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization
Project .............................................. 2 9-Jun-93              1999/2008       128.5
Second Northeast Basic Education Project ................   13-May-93             1999/2008       212.0
Water Quality and Pollution Control Project .....      .........   02-Jul-92      1997/2007         9.0
Brazil (Guarantor)
Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project          05-Jan-93      1998/2007        145.0
Alagoas State Highway Management Project ..............   22-Dec-92               1998/2008        38.0
Santa Catarina State Highway Management Project ........   22-Dec-92             1998/2008         50.0
Sao Paulo Water Quality and Pollution Control Project  .....    02-Jul-92        1997/2007        119.0
Parana Water Quality and Pollution Control Project ........    02-Jul-92         1998/2007        117.0
Bulgaria
Private Investment and Export Finance Project ............   24-Jun-93           1998/2010         55.0
Bulgaria (Guarantor)
Telecommunications Project .............................   13-Apr-93              1997/2010        30.0
Energy Project .........................................   09-Mar-93             1997/2010         93.0
Chile
Health Sector Reform Project ........        ...................   17-Nov-92     1998/2009         90.0
Irrigation Development Project ........       ..................   17-Nov-92     1998/2010         45.0
Environmental Institutions Development Project ...........   17-Nov-92           1998/2010         11.5
China
Grain Distribution and Marketing Project ......      ...........    17-Jun-93     1998/2013       325.0
Tianhuangping Hydroelectric Project ......       ...............   18-May-93      1999/2013       300.0
Southern Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project ........   25-Mar-93            1998/2013      250.0
Sixth Railway Project ...................................   25-Mar-93             1998/2013      420.0
Tianjin Industrial Development Projecl ......      .............   16-Mar-93      1998/2013       150.0
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project .......2.....                   23-Feb-93       1998/2013       100.0
Shanghai Port Restructuring and Development Project  .....   22-Dec-92            1998/2013       150.0
Guangdong Provincial Highway Project ...................   17-Nov-92              1998/2013       240.0
Henan Highway Project .................................   17-Nov-92               1998/2013       120.0
Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Project ....................   01-Sep-92             1998/2012       100.0
Colombia
Municipal Health Services Project .......       ................    08-Jun-93     1998/2010        50.0
Export Development Project ........         ....................   25-May-93      1999/2010        50.0
Colombia (Guarantor)
Agricultural Sector Credit Project ........................   18-Mar-93           1997/2010       250.0
Costa Rica
Third Structural Adjustment Loan .....1.................   15-Apr-93              1997/2010       100.0



Statement of IBRD Loans    177
Principal
amount
Borrow"er or guarantor and purpose                             Date of approval  Maturities  (USS millions)
Costa Rica (Guarantor)
Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project ..............   17-Jun-93           1998/2010       26.0
Ecuador
Second Social Development Project.                             21-Jul-92     1998/2012        70.0
Ecuador (Guarantor)
Private Sector Development Project .01-Jun-93                                 1999/2013       75.0
Egypt (Guarantor)
Private Sector Tourism Infrastructure and Environment
Management Project .17-Dec-92   1998/2013   130.0
El Salvador
Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project .18-Mar-93                  1998/2013       40.0
Estonia
Rehabilitation Loan .01-Oct-92   1998/2007    30.0
Gabon
Forestry and Environment Project .02-Jul-92                                   1998/2007       22.5
Guatemala
Economic Modernization Loan .24-Nov-92                                       1998/2012       120.0
Social Investment Fund Project .24-Nov-92                                    1998/2012        20.0
Hungary
Health Services and Management Project .20-Apr-93                            1998/2008        91.0
Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project          20-Apr-93      1998/2008       132.0
Roads Project .22-Dec-92  1998/2007   90.0
Hungary (Guarantor)
Product Market Development Project .13-Jul-92                                1998/2007       100.0
India
External Sector and Investment Liberalization Program ....   24-Jun-93       1999/2013       300.0
India (Guarantor)
NTPC Power Generation Project .29-Jun-93                                      1998/2013      400.0
Technical Assistance Project for Private Power
Development .24-Jun-93  1999/2013   20.0
POWERGRID System Development Project .23-Mar-93                              1998/2013       350.0
Renewable Resources Development Project .17-Dec-92                            1998/2013       75.0
Indonesia
Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities
Project .24-Jun-93  1999/2013  80.0
Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project.                        I -May-93      1999/20 13      104.0
Groundwater Development Project .13-Apr-93                                    1998/2013       54.0
Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project .13-Apr-93                           1999/2013       42.1
Integrated Pest Management Training Project .30-Mar-93                       1998/2013        32.0
Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project .23-Mar-93                          1998/2013      155.0
Third Community Health and Nutrition Project .22-Dec-92                       1998/2013       93.5
Financial Sector Development Project .12-Nov-92                              1998/2012       307.0
Iran, Islamic Republic of
Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project .25-Mar-93                   1998/2010       141.4
Irrigation Improvement Project .16-Mar-93                                    1998/2010       157.0
Iran, Islamic Republic of (Guarantor)
Power Sector Efficiency Improvement Project .30-Mar-93                       1998/2010       165.0
(continued)



178    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-5 (continued)
principal
amount
Borrower or guarantor and purpose                             Date of approval  Maturities  (USS millions)
Jamaica
Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan ............    15-Jun-93        1998!2010       75.0
Reform of Secondary Education Project .25-Mar-93                            1997/201()      32.0
Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Project          02-Jul-92     1997,2009       60.0
Jordan
Health Management Project .16-Mar-93                                        1998'2013       20.0
Third Transport Project.                                     I -Mar-93      1998!2013       35.0
Korea, Republic of
Petroleum Distribution and Sector Management
Improvement Project .03-Jun-93                                            1998/2008      120.1)
Environmental Research and Education Project .03-Jun-93                     1998/2008       60.0
Public Hospital Modernization Pr ect .01-Sep-92                            1998/2007       30.0
Kwangju and Seoul Seweerage Project .13-Apr-93                              1998/2008      110.0
Latvia
Rehabilitation Loan .22-Oct-92                                              1998/2009       45.0
Lebanon
Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project .        04-Mar-93      1997/2010      175.0
Lithuania
Rehabilitation Loan.                                         22-Oct-92      1997/2009       60.0
Malaysia
Polytechnic Development Project .16-Mar-93                                  1998/2010      107.0
Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project ....   08-Dec-92       1998/2010      141.0
Mauritius
Education Sector Development Project .23-Mar-93                             1998/2010       20.0
Mexico (Guarantor)
Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project            24-Jun-93      1999/2008      480.0
Medium Size Cities Urban Transport Project .16-Feb-93                       1998/2008      200.0
Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project            15-Dec-92      1998/2007      174.0
Transport Air Quality Management Project for the Mexico
City Metropolitan Area .15-Dec-92                                         1998/2007      220.0
Initial Education Project .08-Sep-92                                        1996/2007       80.0
Moldova
Emergency Drought Recovery Project.                          I 1-Mar-93     1998/2010       26.0
Morocco
First Municipal Finance Project .10-Jun-93                                  1999.2013        4.0
Land Development Project for Low-Income Families              10-Jun-93     1999/2013       66.0
Second Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project .30-Mar-93                1998!2013      215.0
Morocco (Guarantor)
Land Development Project for Low-income Families              10-Jun-93     1998/2"013      40.0
Land Development Project for Low-income Families .10-Jun-93                 1999/2013       12.0
Land Development Project for Low-Income Families              10-Jun-93     1999/2013       12.0
First Municipal Finance Project .10-Jun-93                                  1999/2013      100.0
Telecommunications Sector Restructuring Project .02-Feb-93                  1998/2012      100.0
Papua New Guinea
Population and Family Planning Project .13-Apr-93                           1998/2013        6.9
Education Development Project .08-Dec-92                                    1998/2013       35.0
Paraguay
Third Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project .10-Sep-92                  1998/2012       23.0



Statement of IBRD Loans        179
Principal
amount
Borrower or guarantor and purpose                                      Date of approval  Maturities   (USS millions)
Peru
Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Project .....          .....    01-Jun-93        1999/2013           11.8
Privatization Adjustment Loan ........            ..................    20-Apr-93       1998/2013         250.0
Structural Adjustment Loan (supplement) .................   21-Dec-92                   1998/2012          150.0
Privatization Technical Assistance Project .....         ...........    10-Dec-92       1998/2013           30.0
Philippines
Second Irrigation Operations Support Project .....          ........   20-May-93        1999/2013           51.3
Tax Computerization Project ........           ....................   Il-May-93         1998/2013           63.0
Economic Integration Program  ........           ..................    10-Dec-92        1998/2013         200.0
Philippines (Guarantor)
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project .....          .......    22-Jun-93       1999/2013          110.0
Telephone System  Expansion Project ......            ..............    08-Oct-92       1998/2012          134.0
Poland
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan ......            ...............   04-May-93        1997/2010         300.0
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment             ..............   04-May-93       1998/2010         450.0
Roads Project ..........................................   09-Mar-93                    1998/2010          150.0
Romania
Transport Project ..............        ........................    13-Apr-93           1998/2010          120.0
Russia
Privatization Implementation Assistance Project .....        ......    17-Dec-92        1998/2010          90.0
Employment Services and Social Protection Project ........   24-Nov-92                  1998/2007           70.0
Rehabilitation Loan ............         ........................    06-Aug-92          1998/2007         600.0
Russia (Guarantor)
Oil Rehabilitation Project .........        ......................     17-Jun-93        1999/2010         610.0
Seychelles
Environment and Transport Project ......            ................    22-Dec-92       1998/2008            4.5
Thailand (Guarantor)
Distribution System  and Energy Efficiency .....          ..........    27-Apr-93       1997/2010          109.0
Bongkot Gas Transmission Project .......            ................   07-Jul-92        1997/2009          105.0
Tunisia
Second Forestry Development Project ......            ..............   I I-May-93       1999/2010           69.0
Municipal Sector Investment Project ......           ...............   02-Jul-92        1997/2009           75.0
Turkey
Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project .........   I I-Mar-93                1998/2010           77.0
Employment and Training Project ........................   10-Dec-92                    1998/2010           67.0
Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project ......             23-Jul-92       1998/2009         285.0
Turkey (Guarantor)
Bursa Water and Sanitation Project ......           ................    I 1-Mar-93      1998/2010          129.5
Ukraine
Institution Building Project ..............................    08-Jun-93                1999/2010           27.0
Uruguay
Public Enterprise Reform  Loan ........           ..................    03-Sep-92       1998/2007           11.0
Venezuela
Highway Maintenance Project ........            ...................    22-Dec-92        1998/2007          150.0
National Parks Management Project ......................   08-Dec-92                    1998/2008           55.0
Endemic Disease Control Project .......            .................    08-Dec-92       1998/2007           94.0
Judicial Infrastructure Project ........        ...................   06-Aug-92         1998/2007           30.0
Total.                                                                                                    16,944.5
NOTE: All loans approved in fiscal 1993 are at variable interest rates.



180    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-6. Statement of IDA Credits Approved during Fiscal Year 1993
Principal amount
(millions)
C SS
Country and purpose                                  Date of approval    Maturities    SDR      equivalent
Albania
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit ........        24-Jun-93        2003/2033      14.2        2(.(
Transport Project ..........................        20-May-93         2003/2033      13.0        18.0
Technical Assistance Project for Economic
Reform .................................          13-May-93         2003/2033      2.9          4.0
Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project ......      23-Feb-93         2003/2032       1.8         2.4
Angola
Health Project ............. ...............        IlI-May-93        2003!2)033     14.2        19.9
Transport Recovery Project ......     ..........    03-Sep-92         2002!2021      30.0        41.0
Financial Institutions Modernization Project. .     03-Sep-92         2002/2032      14.8        21.(
Bangladesh
Female Secondary School Assistance Project.         I 1-Mar-93        2003/2033     49.5         68.0
Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
(supplement) ............................         23-Dec-92         2002i2032      2.5          3.5
Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit . .       27-Oct-92        2002!2032      72. 2      100.()
Benin
Second Rural Savings and Loan Cooperative
Rehabilitation Project ....................       29-Jun-93         200312033      2.8          3.8
Bolivia
Integrated Child Development Project   .......       29-Jun-93        2003/2033     35.8         50.7
Second Social Investment Fund Project (SIF)          29-Jun-93        2003/2033     28.3         40.(
Structural Adjustment Credit (supplement) . . .     23-Dec-92         2001/2031       8.0        11.1
Environmental Technical Assistance Project .        10-Dec-92         2003/2032       3.3         4.8
Burkina Faso
Engineering Credit for the Ouagadougou
Water Supply Project ........    ............     22-Jun-93         2003/2033      3.0          4.2
Private Sector Assistance Project ..... ......      18-Mar-93         2003!2033      5.1          7.0
Food Security and Nutrition Project .........        09-Jul-92        2003/2032       5.5         7.5
Burundi
Social Action Project ........   ..............     13-May-93         2003,2033       7.5        10.4
Agribusiness Promotion Project .............        03-Sep-92         2003/2032       2.3         3.1
Cape Verde
Transport and Infrastructure Project .........      04-Mar-93         2003/2033       8.9        12.5
Chad
Second Transport Sector Project ..... .......        22-Jun-93        2003/2033     26.2         37.0
Basic Education Project ....................        25-May-93         200312033      13.9        19.3
China
Environmental Technical Assistance Project .         22-Jun-93        2003/2028     35.3         50.0
Grain Distribution and Marketing Project ... .       17-Jun-93        2003/2028    118.9        165.0
Zhejiang Multicities Development Project ... .      25-Mar-93         2003/2028     79.3        110.0
Effective Teaching Services Project   .........     16-Mar-93         2003/2027     72.1        100.(
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project ..... .....       23-Feb-93         2003/2027     72.8        100.0
Agricultural Support Services Project ........      23-Feb-93         2003/2028     83.7        115.0
Changchun Water Supply and Environmental
Project .................................         09-Feb-93         2003/2028     86.6        120.0
Reform, Institutional Support. and
Preinvestment Project ....................        15-Dec-92         2003/2027     35.5         50.0
Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Project .................................         29-Sep-92         2003/2027     42.1         60.0



Statement of IDA Credits    181
Principal amount
(millions)
US$
Country and purpose                                   Date of approval    Maturities    SDR       equivalent
China (continued)
Sichuan Agricultural Development Project ...          07-Jul-92        2003/2027      107.7       147.0
C6te d'Ivoire
Human Resources Management Project ......             01-Jun-93        2003/2028        4.7         6.7
Economic Management Project ......       .......     25-May-93         2003/2028       12.3        17.0
Egypt
Matruh Resource Management Project .......           27-May-93         2003/2028       15.9        22.0
Basic Education Improvement Project   .......        25-Mar-93         2003/2027      40.0         55.5
Equatorial Guinea
Second Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project .................................           02-Jul-92        2002/2032        1.8         2.4
Ethiopia
Structural Adjustment Credit ......    .........      29-Jun-93        2003/2033      176.5       250.0
Recovery and Rehabilitation Project for
Eritrea .................................          30-Mar-93         2003/2033       18.1       25.0
Road Rehabilitation Project .................        19-Nov-92         2002/2032       66.4        96.0
Gambia, The
Agricultural Services Project ......   .........      12-Jan-93        2003/2032        8.8        12.3
Ghana
Primary School Development Project   ........         10-Jun-93        2003/2033      46.9         65.1
Private Enterprise and Export Development
Project .................................         25-May-93          2003/2033      29.6        41.0
Urban Transport Project .......     ............     25-May-93         2003/2033      55.0         76.2
National Electrification Project ......  .......     04-Mar-93         2003/2033      55.2         80.0
Private Investment and Sustained
Development Promotion (supplement)  .....          23-Dec-92         2001/2031       4.7          6.5
National Livestock Services Project .........        08-Dec-92         2003/2032       15.3        22.5
Tertiary Education Project .......    ..........      27-Oct-92        2003/2032       31.2        45.0
Environmental Resource Management
Project .................................           15-Oct-92        2003/2032       12.6        18.1
Guinea
Structural Adjustment II (supplement)  .......       23-Dec-92         1998/2028        0.1         0.1
Post and Telecommunications Technical
Assistance Project .......................         10-Dec-92         2003/2032       10.0        14.6
Power II Project ...........    ...............       28-Jul-92        2002/2032       36.5        50.0
National Agricultural Export Promotion
Project .................................           02-Jul-92        2002/2032       15.2       20.8
Guinea-Bissau
Social Sector Project .........    .............      23-Feb-93        2003/2033        6.4         8.8
Guyana
Public Administration Project ...............        30-Mar-93         2003/2027        8.6        12.0
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project .........      25-Mar-93         2003/2033       19.0        26.0
Second Structural Adjustment Credit
(supplement) ............................          23-Dec-92         2000/2030        2.5         3.5
Honduras
Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project  ......       16-Feb-93        2003/2033       46.9        65.0
Nutrition and Health Project ................         05-Jan-93        2003/2033       17.8        25.0
(continued)



182    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-6 (continued)
Principal amount
(millions)
Us$
Country and purpose                                Date of approval   Maturities    SDR      equivalent
Honduras (continued)
Energy Sector Structural Adjustment Credit
(supplement) ............. ...............       23-Dec-92        2002/2031     23.9        33.1
Morazan Dam Emergency Project ...........         04-Aug-92         2003/2032      8.8        12.0
India
National Leprosy Elimination Project ........      29-Jun-93        2003/2028     60.0        85.0
Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project  1......      0-Jun-93       2003/2028     116.5       165.0
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation
Project .................................        10-Jun-93       2003/2028      39.5        54.7
Karnataka Rural Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitation Project   .........     20-Apr-93       2003/2028      66.3        92.0
Second Integrated Child Development
Services Project .........................      09-Mar-93         2003/2027    141.6       194.0
Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment
Program ................................         17-Dec-92       2003/2027    354.7        500.0
Renewable Resources Development Project . .        17-Dec-92        2003/2027     81.6       115.0
Jharia Mine Fire Control Project ..... .......     17-Dec-92        2003/2027      8.6        12.0
Bihar Plateau Development Project ..........      19-Nov-92         2003/2027     80.7       117.0
Agricultural Development
Project-Rajasthan ......................        12-Nov-92        2003/2027      73.1       106.0
Rubber Project ............................         02-Jul-92       2002/2027     66.4        92.0
Kenya
Emergency Drought Recovery Project  .......        23-Feb-93        2003/2033      14.6       20.0
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
(supplement) ............................        23-Dec-92        2001/2031     37.6        52.1
Second Agricultural Sector Management
Project .................................        15-Dec-92       2003/2032      13.8        19.4
Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical
Assistance Project .......................      08-Dec-92        2003/2032      16.1        23.3
Kyrgyzstan
Rehabilitation Credit .......................     13-May-93         2003/2033     43.3        60.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Education Development Project .............        27-Apr-93        2003/2033      13.7       19.0
Provincial Grid Integration Project ..... .....    06-Oct-92        2003/2032     25.3        36.0
Madagascar
Financial Institutions Development Technical
Assistance Project .......................      20-May-93        2003/2033       4.6         6.3
Food Security and Nutrition Project .........      18-Mar-93        2003/2033      15.5       21.3
Rural Finance Technical Assistance Project . .     16-Feb-93        2003/2033      2.7         3.7
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (supplement).      23-Dec-92        1998/2028       1.0        1.4
Malawi
Rural Financial Services Project ...... .......     15-Jun-93       2003/2033      18.0       25.0
Agricultural Services Project ...... ..........     15-Jun-93       2003/2033     33.0        45.8
Entrepreneurship Development and Drought
Recovery Credit (supplement) ............        23-Dec-92        2002/2032      4.3         5.9
Mali
Private Sector Assistance Project ..... .......    12-Nov-92        2002/2032      8.2        12.0
Mauritania
Technical Education and Vocational Training
Support Project .........................        22-Jun-93        2003/2033      8.9        12.5



Statement of IDA Credits    183
Principal amount
(millions)
us$
Country and purpose                                Date of approval   Maturities    SDR      equivalent
Mauritania (conlinued)
Construction Capacity and Employment
Project .................................       02-Feb-93        2003/2032       8.7        12.0
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
(supplement) ............................       23-Dec-92         2000/2030      1.6         2.2
Mozambique
Local Government Reform and Engineering
Project .................................        29-Jun-93       2003/2033      16.4        23.2
Food Security Capacity Building Project  .....     27-Apr-93        2003/2033      4.6         6.3
Rural Rehabilitation Project .................    30-Mar-93         2003/2032     14.5        20.0
Maputo Corridor Revitalization (Technical
Assistance) Project ........  ..............     19-Jan-93        2003/2033      6.6         9.3
Capacity Building: Human Resources
Development Project ........   .............    19-Nov-92         2003/2032     34.1        48.6
Capacity Building: Public Sector and Legal
Institutions Development Project .....1.....     9-Nov-92         2003/2032     10.9        15.5
Nepal
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project ..........       05-Nov-92         2003/2032     19.0        28.0
Nicaragua
Economic Recovery Credit (supplement)  .....      23-Dec-92         2002/2031      6.1         8.5
Social Investment Fund Project ..... ........     17-Nov-92         2003/2032      17.3       25.0
Nigeria
Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project   .......    17-Jun-93        2003/2028     44.5        63.0
Second Multistate Roads Project ..... .......      27-Apr-93        2003/2027     61.4        85.0
Development Communication Pilot Project ...        13-Apr-93        2003/2028      5.9         8.0
Economic Management Technical Assistance
Project .................................       05-Nov-92        2003/2027      14.7        20.0
First Multistate Roads Project ...............     21-Jul-92        200212027     49.8        68.0
Pakistan
Northern Resource Management Project ......        15-Jun-93        2003/2028     20.4        28.8
Balochistan Primary Education Program ......       13-Apr-93        2003/2028     76.4       106.0
1992 Flood Damage Restoration Project  ......     04-Mar-93        2003/2027      72.8       100.0
Second Family Health Project ...............      23-Feb-93         2003/2028     35.0        48.0
Second Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (supplement) ........  .............    09-Feb-93         1999/2023     66.4        91.9
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South) Irrigation
and Drainage Project .....................       02-Jul-92        2002/2027     39.6        54.2
Philippines
Urban Health and Nutrition Project ..... .....     08-Jun-93        2003/2028     50.5        70.0
Rwanda
Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project .........    09-Feb-93        2003/2032      18.5        26.0
Senegal
Second Human Resources Development ......          18-Mar-93        2003/2033     29.1        40.0
Sierra Leone
Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Project .................................        10-Jun-93       2003/2033      18.4        26.0
Reconstruction Import Credit (supplement) ...     23-Dec-92         2002/2032      0.2         0.3
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project .     22-Dec-92         2003/2032     32.0        45.0
Public Sector Management Support Project ...      19-Nov-92         2003/2032      6.9        10.0
(continued)



184    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-6 (continued)
Principal amount
(millions)
US$
Country and purpose                                  Date of approval     Maturities     SDR      equivalent
Solomon Islands
Third Education and Training Project   ........      25-May-93         2003/2033       12.2         16.9
Sri Lanka
Colombo Urban Transport Project ..... ......         18-May-93         2003/2033       14.4         20.0
Private Finance Development Project   ........       20-Apr-93         2003/2033       43.2         60.0
Public Manufacturing Enterprise Adjustment
(supplement) ............................          23-Dec-92         2001/2030        4.2          5.8
Community Water Supply and Sanitation
Project .................................          10-Dec-92         2003/2032       16.9         24.3
Tanzania
Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project           10-Jun-93        2003/2033       25.2         34.9
Power VI Project ............ ..............         06-May-93         2003/2033      144.2        200.0
Third Telecommunications Project ..... ......        27-Apr-93         2003/2033       53.6         74.5
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(supplement) ............... .............         23-Dec-92         2002/2031        8.2         11.3
Financial and Legal Management Upgrading .            09-Jul-92        2002/2032       14.6         20.0
Uganda
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit ..... .....       20-May-93         2003/2033       72.8        100.0
Primary Education and Teacher Development
Project .................................         13-May-93          2003/2033       38.0         52.6
Structural Adjustment Credit (supplement)... .       23-Dec-92         2002/2031        1.0          1.4
Agricultural Research and Training Project ....      15-Dec-92         2003/2032       17.8         25.0
Agricultural Extension Project ...............       29-Sep-92         2003/2032       11.0         15.8
Economic and Financial Management Project            04-Aug-92         2002/2032       21.2         29.0
Western Samoa
Afulilo Hydroelectric (supplement) ...........       22-Apr-93         1997/2036        0.8          1.0
Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
(supplement) ............. ...............         09-Mar-93         2000/2030        3.7          5.1
Yemen
Family Health Project ......................         24-Jun-93         2003/2033       18.8         26.6
Basic Education Project ........    ............      09-Jul-92        2002/2032       14.5         19.7
Zambia
Second Privatization and Industrial Reform
Credit (supplement) .........    .............     24-Jun-93         2003/2033       72.1        100.0
Transport Engineering and Technical
Assistance ..............................          17-Jun-93         2003/2033        6.2          8.5
Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
(supplement) ............. ...............         23-Dec-92         2002/2032       15.1         20.9
Education Rehabilitation Project .............       27-Oct-92         2003/2032       22.2         32.0
Agricultural Marketing and Processing
Infrastructure Project ........   ............     08-Sep-92         2002/2032       24.1         33.0
Zimbabwe
Second Structural Adjustment Credit .........        29-Jun-93         2003/2028       88.3        125.0
Sexually Transmitted Infections Prevention
and Care Project .........................          17-Jun-93        2003/2028       45.6         64.5
Total                                                                             4,832.2      6,751.4
NOTE: Starting with the sixth replenishment of IDA, credits are expressed in special drawing rights (SDRs). The US-dollar
equivalent of the original principal amount of credits denominated in SDRs is shown at the rate approved by the executive
board. All credits approved in fiscal 1993 have a service charge of 0.75 percent on the disbursed and outstanding balance.
Details may not add to totals because of rounding.



Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor    185
Table 7-7. IBRD and IDA Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or
Guarantor, June 30, 1993
(amounts in millions of US dollars)
IBRD  loans                    IDA credits                        Total
Borrower or guarantor                               Number          Amount         Number          Amount          Number          Amouint
Afghanistan  ............. .......                      -                 -             20            230.1            20             230.1
Africa region  ............ .......                       1             15.0             1             45.5             2              60.5
Albania ........................                        -                 -              5             85.5             5              85.5
Algeria .........................                       52          4,420 5            -                 -             52          4,420.5
Angola .........................                        -                 -              8            248.8             8             248.8
Argentina  ......................                       55          8,133.3            -                 -             55          8,133.3
Armenia  .......................                          I             12.0           -                  -              1              12.0
Australia .......................                        7            417.7            -                 -              7             417.7
Austria .........................                        9             106.4           -                 -              9             106.4
Bahamas, The ..........             ........             5              42.8           -                 -              5              42.8
Bangladesh   ............. .......                        1             46.1          138          6,132.8            139          6,178.9
Barbados .......................                        10              95.4           -                 -             10              95.4
Belgium ........................                         4              76.0           -                 -              4              76.0
Belize ..........................                        5              33.3           -                 -              5              33.3
Benin ..........................                        -                 -            36             491.5            36             491.5
Bhutan .........................                        -                 -              5             22.8             5              22.8
Bolivia .........................                       14            299.3             39            896.7            53           1,196.0
Botswana ......................                         20            280.7              6             15.8            26             296.5
Brazil ..........................                      199        20,553.1             -                 -            199         20,553.1
Bulgaria ........................                        5            445.0            -                 -              5             445.0
Burkina Faso ............ .......                       -                1.9           41            665.8             41             667.7
Burundi ........................                          1              4.8           44             658.1            45             662.9
Cameroon ......,.,.,.......                             44          1.294.4             15            253.0            59           1,547.4
Cape Verde  ............. .......                       -                 -              6             36.8             6              36.8
Caribbean  region   ........          .......             3             63.0             2             32.0             5              95.0
Central African Republic .........                      -                 -             23            386.9            23             386.9
Chad  ..........................                        -                 -            26             388.2            26             388.2
Chile  ..........................                       53          3,245.4            -               19.0            53           3,264.4
China ..........................                        74          9.614.4             53         6,870.7            127          16,485.1
Colombia .......................                       134          7.888.6            -                19.5          134          7,908.1
Comoros .                                               -                 -    10    55.1   10    55.1
Congo  .........................                        10            216.7              8             74.6            18             291.3
Costa Rica  ............... ......                      37            866.9            -                 5.5           37             872.4
C6te d'lvoire  ............ .......                     62          2,887.9              4            146.2            66          3,034.1
Cyprus ....               .. ......                     30            418.8            -                 -             30              418.8
Czechoslovakia .................                          2           696.0            -                  -             2             696.0
Denmark .......................                          3              85.0           -                 -              3              85.0
Djibouti ........................                       -                 -              8             51.6             8              51.6
Dominica .......................                        -                 -              3             11.0             3               11.0
Dominican Republic .............                        21            566.9              3             22.0            24             588.9
East African Community                ........          10            244.8            -                 -             10             244.8
Eastern Africa region  ......            .....          -                 -              1             45.0              1             45.0
Ecuador .......................                         51          1.848.9              5             36.9            56           1,885.8
Egypt ..........................                        55          3.901.8            31           1,309.5            86          5,211.3
El Salvador .....................                       23            433.1              2             25.6            25             458.7
Equatorial Guinea ...............                       -                 -              9             45.0             9              45.0
Estonia  ........................                         1             30.0           -                 -               I             30.0
Ethiopia ......................                         12             108.6           51           1,785.8            63           1,894.4
Fiji ..........................                         13             152.9           -                 -             13             152.9
Finland  ........................                       18            316.8            -                 -             Is             316.8
(continued)



186    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-7 (continued)
IBRD loans                          IDA credits                              Total
Borrower or guarantor                                       Number    Amount    Number    Amount    Number    Amount
France .........................                                   1             250.0               -                    -                I               250.0
Gabon  .........................                                 10               176.8              -                    -               10               176.8
Gambia, The  .............                  ......               -                    -              21               146.6              21                146.6
Ghana  .........................                                  9              207.0               70            2,411.5               79             2,618.5
Greece .........................                                 17              490.8               -                    -               17               490.8
Grenada ........................                                 -                    -                1                 5.0                1                 5.0
Guatemala ......................                                 23              725.1               -                    -              23                725.1
Guinea .........................                                   3               75.2              40              829.9               43                905.1
Guinea-Bissau  ...........                 .......               -                    -              18               186.9               18               186.9
Guyana ........................                                  12                80.0               10              212.5              22                292.5
Haiti .........................1                                                     2.6             31              453.0               32                455.6
Honduras  ......................                                 33              717.3               12              350.6               45             1,067.9
Hungary   .......................                                30           3,505.9                -                    -              30             3,505.9
Iceland .........................                                10                47.1              -                    -               10                47.1
India .........................                                152           21,744.2               196          20,449.3               348           42,193.5
Indonesia  ......................                               177          18,921.9                46              931.8              223            19,853.7
Iran, Islamic Republic of .........                              39           2,058.1                -                    -              39             2,058.1
Iraq   .........................                                  6               156.2              -                    -                6               156.2
Ireland .........................                                 8               152.5              -                    -                8               152.5
Israel ..........................                                 1I             284.5               -                    -               I 1              284.5
Italy .........................                                    8             399.6               -                    -                8               399.6
Jamaica ........................                                 56            1.179.9               -                    -               56            1.179.9
Japan  .........................                                 31              862.9               -                    -               31               862.9
Jordan .........................                                 35            1,098.4                15               85.3               50            1,183.7
Kenya .........................                                  46            1,200.0               61            2,138.2              107             3,338.2
Korea, Republic  of ........                 ......            104            7.944.0                  6              110.8             110             8,054.8
Kyrgyzstan .....................                                 -                    -                1               60.0                1                60.0
Lao People's Democratic
Republic .....................                               -                    -               17              335.2                17              335.2
Latvia  .........................                                  1               45.0              -                    -                I                45.0
Lebanon  .......................                                  5              291.6               -                    -                5               291.6
Lesotho ........................                                   I              110.0              22              213.2               23                323.2
Liberia .........................                                21               156.0              14               114.5              35                270.5
Lithuania .......................                                  1               60.0              -                    -                 I               60.0
Luxembourg ............... .....                                   1               12.0              -                    -                I                 12.0
Madagascar  ............... .....                                 5                32.9              56            1,108.2               61             1,141.1
Malawi .........................                                  9               124.1              54            1,242.9               63             1,367.0
Malaysia .......................                                 81           3,326.6                -                    -              81             3,326.6
Maldives .......................                                 -                    -                5               33.9                5                33.9
Mali .........................                                   -                   1.9              46             802.0               46                803.9
Malta   .........................                                  1                7.5              -                    -                1                  7.5
Mauritania  .................. ...                                3              146.0               30              301.3               33               447.3
Mauritius .......................                                26              346.5                 4               20.2              30                366.7
Mexico  ........................                               141           21,888.6                -                    -             141           21,888.6
Moldova .......................                                    1               26.0              -                    -                1                26.0
Mongolia .......................                                 -                    -                2               35.0                2                35.0
Morocco .......................                                  99           6,677.7                  3               50.8             102             6,728.5
Mozambique ....................                                  -                    -              23              974.3               23                974.3
Myanmar .......................                                    3               33.4               30              804.0               33               837.4
Nepal .........................                                  -                    -              61            1,296.9                61            1,296.9
Netherlands ....................                                   8             244.0               -                    -                8               244.0
New  Zealand  .............                 ......                6               126.8              -                    -                6               126.8



Cumulative Lending Operations, by Borrower or Guarantor    187
IBRD  loans                         IDA  credirN                             Total
Borrower or guarantor                                       Number    Amount    Number    Amount    Ntimber                                             Amount
Nicaragua ......................                                 27              233.6                6              213.8               33                447.4
Niger   .........................                                -                    -             35                506.1              35                506.1
Nigeria .........................                                84           6.248.2                14              902.9               98             7.151.1
Norway ........................                                    6              145.0             -                     -                6               145.0
Oman ..........................                                  I I              157.1             -                     -               II               157.1
Pakistan   .......................                               76           4.783.2               92             4,059.1              168             8.842.3
Panama ........................                                  32              816.3              -                     -              32                816.3
Papua  New  Guinea ........                  ......              26              531.0                9               113.2              35                644.2
Paraguay .......................                                 29              510.1                6                45.5               35               555.6
Peru .........................                                   66           3,153.7               -                     -              66             3,153.7
Philippines  .................. ...                            130            8,572.9                 5              294.2              135             8,867.1
Poland  .........................                                18           3,511.0               -                     -               18            3,511.0
Portugal ........................                                32            1.338.8              -                     -              32             1,338.8
Romania .......................                                  38            3,134.3              -                     -              38             3.134.3
Russia .........................                                  4            1,370.0              -                     -                4            1,370.0
Rwanda ........................                                  -                    -             42               617.4               42                617.4
Sao Tome and Principe ...... ....                                -                    -               8                58.9                8                58.9
Senegal ........................                                 19               164.9             53             1.023.5               72             1,188.4
Seychelles ......................                                 2                10.7             -                     -                2                 10.7
Sierra  Leone  .............                ......                4                18.7              17              261.8               21                280.5
Singapore ......................                                 14               181.3             -                     -               14               181.3
Solomon  Islands  .........                .......               -                    -               6                33.9                6                33.9
Somalia ........................                                 -                    -             39               492.1               39                492. 1
South Africa ....................                                I I1            241.8              -                     -               I1               241.8
Spain .........................                                  12              478.7              -                     -               12               478.7
Sri Lanka  ......................                                12              210.7              61             1,862.0               73             2,072.7
St. Kitts and Nevis ..............                                 1                 1.5            -                    1.5               1                  3.0
St. Lucia .......................                                  1                 2.5            -                    5.2                1                 7.7
St. Vincent and the Grenadines ..                                  1                 1.4              1                  6.4               2                  7.8
Sudan .........................                                   8               166.0              48            1.352.9               56             1.518.9
Swaziland  ......................                                 1                75.8               2                  7.8              13                83.6
Syria  .........................                                 17              613.2                3                47.3              20                660.5
Tanzania .......................                                 18              318.2               79            2,496.8               97             2,815.0
Thailand   .......................                              100           4,734.1                 6               125.1             106             4,859.2
Togo   .........................                                   1               20.0             34                S09.5              35                529.5
Tonga .........................                                                       -               2                  5.0               2                  5.0
Trinidad  and  Tobago  .......                 .....             17              216.5              _                     -               17               216.5
Tunisia .........................                                90            3,127.2                5                74.6              95             3,201.8
Turkey .........................                               III           11.957.9                10               178.5             121            12,136.4
Uganda ........................                                    1                8.4             49             1.854.5               50             1,862.9
Ukraine ........................                                   1               27.0             -                     -                I                27.0
Uruguay  .......................                                 35            1,124.1              -                     -              35             1,124.1
Vanuatu ........................                                 -                    -               4                 15.4               4                 15.4
Venezuela ......................                                 27           2.795.3               -                     -              27             2,795.3
Viet Nam   ......................                                -                    -               I                60.0                 1               60.0
Western  Africa  region                 ...........                1                 6.1              3                52.5                4                58.6
Western  Samoa  ..........                 .......               -                   -                8                46.6                8                46.6
Yemen .........................                                  -                    -             98             1,055.4                98            1,055.4
Yugoslavia  .....................                                90           6.114.7               -                     -              90             6,114.7
(continued)



188    Summaries of Projects Approved
Table 7-7 (continued)
IBRD loans             IDA credits                 Total
Borrower or guarantor                   Number    Amount    Number    Amount    Number               Amount
Zaire ..........................             7        330.0         59      1,151.5        66         1,481.5
Zambia ........................             28        679.1         28      1,009.7        56         1,688.8
Zimbabwe ......................             23        893.2          6       443.4         29         1,336.6
Other ..........................            14        329.4          4         15.3        18           344.7
Total ..........................         3.536   235,154.4       2.341    77.816.4      5,877      312,970.8
- Zero
NOTE: Joint IBRD/IDA operations are counted only once. as IBRD operations. When more than one loan is made for a single
project, the operation is counted only once. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
a. Represents IBRD loans and IDA credits made at a time when the authorities on Taiwan represented China in the World
Bank (prior to May 15. 1980).



189
Financial Statements of the
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Balance Sheet 190
Statement of Income   192
Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings      192
Statement of Changes in Cumulative Translation Adjustment    192
Statement of Cash Flows   193
Summary Statement of Loans  194
Summary Statement of Borrowings   197
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power  199
Notes to Financial Statements 203
Report of Independent Accountants 209



190      IBRD Financial Statements
Balance Sheet
June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1993            1992
Assets
DUE FROM BANKS
Unrestricted currencies                   ..    ..                                 .         ..         68         $    124
Currencies subject to restrictions-Note A                                                              571              842
639             966
INVESTMENTS-Notes B and E
Obligations ot governments and other official entilies  ....               ..     .       .         10,974           17,092
Time deposits and other obligations ot banks and other financia institutions  ...   .                 7,620           6,638
18,594          23,730
CASH COLLATERAL INVESTED-Note B.                                                                        1,772            5,759
NONNEGOTIABLE. NONINTEREST-BEARING DEMAND OBLIGATIONS ON ACCOUNT OF
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL (sibject to restrictiors-Note A) ..1,547                                                           1.719
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Note A
Amounts receivable                  ..1,210    700
Amounts deterred                                                                                       480              227
1,690             927
OTHER RECEIVABLES
Net receivables from currency swaps-Notes D and E ...775                                                                684
Receivables from investment securilies sold  .........................o...........                    1,526           1.840
Accrued income on loans                                                                               2,248           2.283
Accrued interest on investments                                                                        123              194
4,672           5,001
LOANS OUTSTANDING
(see Summary Statement ol Loans, Notes C and E)
Total  loans              ..............                 .. ................           .           158.879          154,933
Less loans approved but not yet ettective                                                           10,964           11,193
Less undisbursed balance ot ehective loans  ........ ....................                           43,464           42.930
104,451         100,810
OTHER ASSETS
Unamortized issuance costs ot borowings                                                                501              575
M isce   laneous  ...  ...................      ....    ..     ...       .    ......  .               1,135             929
1,636           1,504
Total assets                                                                                         $135,001        $140,416



Balance Sheet   191
1993                1992
Liabilities
BORROWINGS (see Summary Statement of Borrowings, Notes D and E)
Short-term   .......................................... ................                                                   $   3,775           $   5,374
Medium- and long-term .............  ...........                                                                              92,488              91,682
96,263              97,056
PAYABLE FOR CASH  COLLATERAL RECEIVED                                        .................1,772                                                    5.759
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS-Note A
Amounts payable           .......................................................                                                   4                  40
Amounts deferred  ....              ...................   ...........................                                            754                  748
758                 788
OTHER LIABILITIES
Accrued charges on borrowings . ...........................  .  ..... ......                                  .2,750                                2,942
Net payables for currency swaps-Notes D and E ................................                                                 1,972               1,241
Payables for investment securities purchased  .  .. ................................                                           1,715               4,830
Due to the International Development Association and the Debt Reduction Facility for
IDA-Only Countries-Note F .......................  .......  .  .......  .....                                               1,013               1,112
Accounts payable and other liabilities            ...... .....   .           ..         .                 .       .              485                  460
7,935              10,585
ACCUMULATED  PROVISION  FOR LOAN  LOSSES-Note C  ..                                .                  .         ..                3,150                2,540
Total liabilities  .............                                        .  .         ..      .          .  .          109.878             116,728
Equity
CAPITAL STOCK  (see Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power and Note A)
Authorized capital (1,525,659 shares-June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992)
Subscribed capital (1,372,648 shares-June 30, 1993: 1,262,054 shares-June 30, 1992)                                      165,589              152,248
Less uncalled portion of subscriptions .........   .....  ...........  .......  .  .                                     155,058              142,188
10,531              10,060
PAYMENTS ON ACCOUNT OF PENDING SUBSCRIPTIONS-Note A ..    . .                                                                         19                  48
RETAINED  EARNINGS (see Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings and Note F)                             ..........             14,032              13,202
CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENT (see Statement of Changes mn Cumulative
Translation Adjustment) ..............   .....                          ......  ..  .....  .  .                                  541                  378
Total equity   ...........                ...... ..                 ..           .....             .                   25,123               23,688
Total liabilities and  equity                   .         .  .    .   .   .      .      .  .    .                             $135,001            $140,416
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part ot these Statements.



192       IBRD Financial Statements
Statement of Income
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Income from  loans-Note                                                                                            1993            1992
IncomeC
Income trom loans--Note C
Interest  ................................                                                  ....   .        $7,957          $7.773
Commilment charges                      .                                                                      124             115
Income from  investments-Note B           ................................................                      1,361           1,771
Other income   .............................................................                                         9             12
Total income                                ...... .                                  ..     .          9,451           9,671
Expenses
Borrowing expenses
Interest  on   borrowings-Note   D  ...............................................                          6,654           6,653
Prepayment costs ..         ...                                                                                108              88
Amortization of issuance costs and other borrowing costs          .. ...                                        109            123
Interest on payable for cash collateral received             .       .....                                         81             127
Administrative expenses-Notes G, H and I               .........................................                  679             612
Provision   for  loan   losses-Note   C  ..........................................                 ..            578             353
O ther    expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6  6
Total expenses ........................................................                                 8,215           7,962
Operating  Income                                                                                                  1,236           1,709
Less contributions to special programs-Note G                         .......                    ..      .           106              64
Net Income                                     ......... ...                                                      $1,130          $1,645
Statement of Changes in Retained Earnings
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1993           1992
Retained earnings at beginning of fiscal year            ..........................................              $13,202         $11,937
Transfer to International Development Association-Note F  ...................           ...........              (300)           (350)
Transfer to Technical Assistance Trust Fund tor the Union of Soviet Sociaiist Republics-Note F  ...                -               (30)
Net Income for fiscal year .....................   ..                                                           t,130           1,645
Retained earnings at end of the fiscal year .............              ...................   .                   $14,032         $13,202
Statement of Changes in Cumulative
Translation Adjustment
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1993           1992
Cumulative translation adjustment at beginning of fiscal year ........         .......................             $378           $ (720)
Translation   adjustments   for  fiscal  year    ........................  ...............           ..           163            1,098
Cumulative translation adjustment at end of fiscal year ................................ .                         $541           S  378
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.



Statement of Cash Flows   193
Statement of Cash Flows
For the fiscal years ended June 30. 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
1993              1992
Cash flows trom ending and development activilies
Loan disbursements  ........                .............        .....   .....         ...........     .        $(13,077)          $(11,727)
Loan princ.pal repayments                       .       .    .         . .    . . .   .               .           10186               9,488
Loan principal prepayments .......              ...............  ....                     .....    ....   .          460                330
Payments to International Development Association ... .       .... . ... . ... ..   . .                             (303)              (211)
Payments to Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries ..                                          .              (29)              ()t)
Payments to Technical Assistance Trust Fund tor the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics             .                 -                  (30)
Net cash used in lend ng and development activities ....... ....... . ... ..... .                              (2,763)            (2,160)
Cash flows from financing activities                         .                                .   .
Medium- and long-term borrowings
New issues                           ....                            ..... ........ .....                      12,445             11,754
Retirements      .... .                                     - ....  . .                                       (12,282)           (12 471)
Net cash flows from short-term  borrowirgs  ..                 .....        ...   ........   ....                 (1,652)              (142)
Net cash flows from  currency swaps  ........                 .......... .. ......    ....   ..                     (357)                (96)
Net cash flows from  capital transactions                                                          .                 344                471
Net cash tlows from  financing activit es                                                                      (1,502)              (484)
Cash f ows from operating activilies
Net income  .......1..................                      ....    .....       .......  ....             .       1130               1,645
Adiustments lo reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities
Depreciation and amortizat on  .. .       ... ......... ......... .......                                         244                309
Prov sion for loan losses .578    353
Changes in assets and liabi ities
Decrease in accrued income on loans and investments                                    .      .                110                  32
Increase n miscellaneous assets .. ..........             .        .  .  .  .   .                             (210)              (152)
Decrease in accrued charges on borrowings ..             ............           ....   ....(174)                                   (13)
Increase in accounts payable and other iab ltiles         .                                     .                 8                63
Net cash provided by operating activities   .  . .          .     .             .        .  .  .          1,686              2237
Eiffect of exchange rate changes on unrestricted cash and hiquid investments                          .                 188              1.257
Net (decrease) increase in unrestricted cash and liquid investments   . . . . .                . . .                 (2,391)               850
Unrestricted cash and liquid investments at beg nning of fiscal year .    ... ... ... .   .....                      20,864             20,014
Unrestricted cash and  iquid investments at end of fiscal year  ....  .........  ....  . . . .                    $18,473             $ 20,864
Composed of
Investments  .......                       . ....$. . ... . ... ......... .  . . ....                           $18,594            $ 23.730
Unrestrcted currencies                                                                              .                 68                124
Net payable for investment securities purchased/so d  .                  ..    .          .  .    .                 (189)            (2,990)
$ 18,473           $ 20,864
Supplemental disc osure
Increase resulting from  exchange rate fluctuations
Loans outstanding  ... ......... ....                                                                        $  1,210           $  8,263
Borrowings.                     .              .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . .  .                                 525    7.516
Net payable for currency swaps ... ........ ......                                                                992                200
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part ot these Statements.



194    IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Loans
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Loans                                                  Percentage
approved                                                   of total
Total        but rot yet    Und sbursed             Loans                 loans
Borrower or guarantor                                                                 loans         effect we          loans2         outstanding3           oulstanding
Algeria  ..... ...............................                                     S  3,032          $   297          $1.1177             1,558                   1.49
Argenlina .....         ...............................                               5,349              339            1,266              3,744                 3.58
Arm enia    .......................12...............                                        2             -                 12                 -
Ausiral a4  ....            .....         .... ......... ..... .                            1             -                -                     1
Bahamas, The    ..................................                                        24                                 4                 20                0.02
Bangladesh ....................................                                           61              -                                    61                0.06
Barbados   ....................................                                           49                                23                 26                0.02
B eliz e       ....................................                                       33              -                 13                 20                0.02
Bolivia   .      ...................................                                     143                               -                  143                0.14
Botswana .................  ...                                                          143              -                 10               133                 0.13
Brazil ....................................                                          11,846             533            4.265               7,048                 6.75
Bulgaria       ....................................                                      452             178              116                158                 0.15
Cameroon   ....................................                                       1,016              -                261                755                 0.72
Chile ....................................                                            2,561                               596              1,965                 1.88
China  . . ..................................                                         9,171           1,545             3,354              4,272                 4.09
Colombia  .......                                                                     4,646              449            1,023              3.174                 3.04
Congo ........................                                                .          183              16                 4               163                 0.16
Costa Rica  ....................................                                         620             167               89                364                 0.35
Cote d lvoire5  .........................                                             2,238              -                385              1.853                 1.77
Croatia        ....................................                                      153                                35               118                 0.11
Cyprus         ....................................                                      161             -                117                  44                0.04
Czech  Repub ic    .................................                                     553             -                241                312                 0.30
Dominican  Republic ..............................                                      382                               119                263                 0.25
Ecuador        ....................................                                   1,326               75              468                783                 0.75
Egypt, Arab  Republic of ....................                                         2,326             130               802              1,394                 1.33
El Savador              .....................                                           319               40               65                214                 0.20
Estonia      ....................................                                         30             -                  16                 14                0.01
Ethiopia ..               ..........                    ........            ..            10             -                 -                   10                0.01
Fed. Republic ot YugoslaviaiBosnia-Herzegovina ..........                             1.967             380                21              1,566                 1.50
Fiji                 .......................                                              83              15                19                 49                0.05
Gabon ....................................                                               114              23                 7                 84                0.08
Ghana ....................................                                                84             -                                     84                0.08
Greece    .      ...................................                                        6             -                -                    6                0.01
Guatemala                                                                ....            448              52              197                 199                0.19
Guyana .         ...................................                                      44              -                -                   44                0.04
Honduras    ....................................                                         521              -                40                481                 0.46
Hungary  ..3........................                                                  3.229              223              969              2,037                  1.95
Iceland  ..             .              .           ..                                       5                              -                    5
India          ....................................                                  15,166             420            5,421               9,325                 8.93
Indonesia    ....................................                                    16,108             561             4,224             11,323                10.84
Iran, Islamic Repub ic of ...........................                                    866             165              552                149                 0.14
Iraq           ....................................                                       44             -                 -                   44                0.04
Ireland                                                                       .             4            -                 -                    4
Jamaica        ....................................                                      843              32              197                614                 0.59
Jordan         ....................................                                      751              55              115                 581                0.56
Kenya"   ....................................                                           622              -                   3               619                 0.59
Kenya, Tanzania and  Uganda9 .......................                                        1                              -                     1
Korea, Republic of    ...............................                                 3,324             290               442              2,592                 2.48
Latvia         ....................................                                       45             -                 38                    7               0.01
Lebanon  ............................                                                    195             175               -                   20                0.02
Lesotho                   .....................                                          110             -                 88                  22                0.02
Liberia ....................................                                             141              -                 -                 141                0.13
Lithuania ....................................                                            60             -                 53                    7               0.01
Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of .                             .. .                161              -                  2               159                  0.15
Madagascar ....................................                                           18              -                -                   18                0.02



Summary Statement of Loans   195
Loans                                                    Percentage
approved                                                     ot total
Total        but not yet    Undisbursed              Loans                  loans
Borrower or guaranior                                                                   oans           effective'         loans2          outstand ng3           oulstand ng
Malawi   ....................................   $                                             72       $     -          $      -           $        72                 0.07
Malaysia ......                  .   .   .   ...  ..                                      1,496             107               317               1,072                  1.03
Mauritania .............                     ...         ........          .                  26                               -                    26                 0.02
Mauritius .............                 .............. .                                    231               15                63                153                  0.15
Mexico  .......   .....................  ...   ..                                        16,108             980             2,741             12,387                 11 86
Moldova . .....                                                                               26             -                  10                  16                 0.02
Morocco                                                     .   .   .   .                 5,123             549             1,029               3,545                  3.39
Nicaragua ..                ..               .                                                97             -                 --                   97                 0.09
Nigeria   .                                              ......                           4,878                             1,635               3,243                  3.10
Oman              ...   .          .       ..                                                 59             -                    8                 51                 0 05
Pakistan  ...........                ......             ...                               3,863              -              1,306               2,557                  2.45
Panama .......                   ...         ....               .                           333                                 60                273                  0.26
Papua New  Guinea4 .........                    ..                                          419               69                85                265                  0.25
Paraguay ............                     ....              .                               260                                 57                203                  0.19
Peru ....L.....                                                                           1,753               42              275               1,436                  1.37
Philippines   6.........    .......                                                       6404              358             1,521               4,525                  4 33
Poland  .......  ..                ...  .           .    .   .   .........     .          3,532             955             1,655                 922                  0.88
Ponugal ............                                                                        209                                 75                134                  0.13
Romania . .....              ..       ...            .                                      956              120              484                 352                  0.34
RLussia ..                                                                                1................   .  1370  770   297                 303                  0.29
St. Kitts and  Nevis .........                       ..........                                 1                                 1
St. Lucia   .........                    ......           ......                               2             -                    2
St. Vincent            ......... .                      .. ....    .                            1            -                    1
Senegal ..............                 ......       ...    .      .   .   .   .               57              -                 --                  57                 0.05
Seychelles ..........                     ..............                     .                10                                  5                   5
Sierra  Leone ..........                    .... .. ......                            .        3              -                 -                     3
Singapore ..........                             ......                   .                     1            -                                        1
Slovak  Republic'r  .................e...........                                           153                                _-                  153                 0.15
Slovenia  ............                                                .                     196               -                 37                 159                 0.15
Sri Lanka                                     .                                               63                               --                   63                 0.06
Sudan              .....                   ......                                               7            -                  -                     7                0.01
Swaziland  ..............                           ..                                        26             -                  -                   26                 0.02
Syrian Arab Republic ......... .                       ...... ...                  .        423              -                                    423                  0.41
Tanzania  . ........                  ....             .                                    156               -                 --                 156                 0.15
Thailand  ...                                          .                                  2352               109              316               1.927                  1 84
Trinidad  and  Tobago    ... ....                        .....   ....              .        100              -                  42                  58                 0.06
Tunisia .............  .                   .   .        .           .   .   .   .   .     2,159               69              527               1.563                  1.50
Turkey..                                  .             .....   .   .   . .               8,681             207             2,970               5,504                  5.27
Uganda...                  .....                     ........                                 19             -                 -                    19                 0.02
Ukraine  ............                            .........                                    27              27               --
Uruguay  ...    .......    .......                                      .                   697              -                166                 531                  0.51
Venezuela ..........   .                   ..   .        .   ..                           2,481             427               522               1,532                  1.47
Zaire ...........                         ....               ..                               84                               -                    84                 0.08
Zambia ..............    ..                   .       .   .   ..                            262              -                  -                 262                  0.25
Zimbabwe .........                                               .                          731              -                213                 518                  0.50
Subtotal Countries/Republics   .                  ...........                      157,707           10,964            43,269            103,474                  99.07
Caribbean Development Bank"r . ..                                                    $        44    $   -                $    19           $        25                 0.02
West African Development Bank2 .2                                                             19             -                  15                    4
International Finance  Corporation  ....... ......                       .           .    1.109              -                161                 948                  0.91
Total--une  30. 1993  ......                    ....................    $158,879                       $10,964           $43,464           $104,451                 100.00
Total-June  30, 1992   .                .......         ..     ...                    $154,933         $11.193           $42.930           $100,810
Indicates amounts less than $0.5 m  lion or 0 005 percent.
(continued)



196       IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Loans (continued)
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars
NOnES
1 Loans totaling $5 996 million ($7.387 mill on-June 30, 1992) have been approved by the IBRD but the related agreements have not been signed Loan
agreements tolaling $4 968 million ($3.806 mill on-uune 30, 1992) have been sgned, but the loans do not become ehective and disbursements
thereunder do not stan unt IIhe borrowers and guarantors, if any, take certa n actions and turnish cerain documents to the IBRD.
2 Ot the undisbursed baJance, the IBRD has entered into irrevocab e commitments to disburse $1 837 mill on ($1.634 mri on-June 30. 1992)
3 Total oans outstanding as of June 30, 1993 includes $80,832 million ($72,124 m  ion-June 30 1992) at variab e interesl rates, and $23.619 million
($28 686 mi lion-June 30, 1992) at fixed interest rates.
4 In some instances oans were made, w tl the guarantee oe a member, in countries which at the time were ncluded n that member's territor es but which
subsequently became independent and separate members of the IBRD. Liabilities tor these loans are shown under the name ot the orig na member (whose
guarantee continues unahfected) Loans with outstanding balances equiva ent to $1 mil ion ($3 million-uune 30 1992) are shown under Ausira ia the
guarantor, but represent obligations of Papua New Guinea.
5 One loan with an outstanding balance equivalent to $3 million ($5 million-June 30, 1992) is shown under Cobte d'lvo re (Guarantor) but is also partially
guaranteed by Burkina Faso
6. These loans were assumed or guaranteed by the Czech Repub ic when it succeeded to the membersh p ot the dissolved Czech and S ovak Federal Republic
on January 1 1993. See also Notes to Financial Statements-Note A
7 See Notes to Financia Statements-Notes A and C.
8 Includes pontions of oans made to corporations of the tormer East Atrican Community
9 Members are jointly and severally liab e.
10 These loans were assumed or guaranteed by the Slovak Republic when it succeeded to the membership ot the dissolved Czech and S ovak Federal Republic
on January 1, 1993 See also Notes to Financial Statements-Note A
11. These loans are for the benetit of The Bahamas, Barbados. Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica. Trinidad and Tobago and territories of the United Kingdom
(Associated States and Dependenc es) in the Caribbean Region, who are several y liab e as guarantors to the extenl of sub oans made in their lerritories.
12 The loan is ior the benefit of Cote d'lvo re and Senegal who are severally liable as guarantors to the extent ot subloans made in their territories
Summary of Currencies Repayable on Loans Disbursed and Outstanding
Currency                                    1993            1992         Currency                                    1993            1992
Austrian schillings  .........    .       $   175         $   195        Luxembourg trancs ........    .          $      63       $     101
Belgian trancs .       ............ .         220             247        Malaysian ringgits .......... .                 42              43
Canadian dollars  ..........         .        178             192        Netherlands guilders ........    .           2,808           4,337
Danish kroner   .          ..... .             71              76        Norwegian kroner        .62 .1...........       62              75
Deutsche mark ............. .              23,412          23,483        Potluguese escudos ......... .                  21              25
European currency units ...... .                19             26        Pounds ster ing   .        . . .....           245             321
Finnish markkaa .......... .        .          44              58        Saudi Arabian riyals .8........   .             91              92
French trancs .        .1........... .        732             749        South African rand .......... .                 42              44
Indian rupees .        ............ .          26              27        Spanish pesetas .        ........... .         116             157
Irish pounds .        ............. .          24              29        Swedish kronor .         .1.......... .         73             103
Italian lire ........... .  .     .           185             242        Swiss trancs .......... .    .    .         12,235          14,697
Japanese yen .       ............. .       35,190          28,724        United States dollars ........ .            28,200          26,554
Kuwaiti dinars .......... .   ..              151             170        Other currencies ........... .                  26              43
Loans outstanding ..........         .   $104,451        $100,810
Maturity Structure of Loans Outstanding
Period
July 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994                    . .                                                                         $ 11,362
July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995                                                                                         .         10,786
July 1. 1995 through June 30, 1996    .                                                                                     .        11,176
July 1, 1996 through June 30, 1997                                                                           .             .         11,210
July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1998                                                      .             .                  .           10,729
July 1, 1998 through June 30, 2003                                                             .                         .          36,368
July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2008                                           . .....  ...                                            11,635
July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2013  .............. .. .............  ...                                                             1,185
Total .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..................                                       ...............                $1 04,451



Summary Statement of Borrowings   197
Summary Statement of Borrowings
June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Medium- and Long-term Borrowings and Swaps
Medium- and ong-lerm borrowinos                        Swap agreements'                        Net currency obgaal ons
We ghled
weignlea                                     anerage coSt
average             Currency swap              (relurn)
Pr ncipal oulsland ng5       cost I%)          payables irece vabes) elc
1993             1992           1993           1993             1992            1993           1993              1992
Ausira an do lars                 $  498            $  689            1401         $  1503)         5 (6999         N4021          S    (5)          9   rtO)
Ausr an SchUllngs                     274               405            769             (68)            1671          '644 i            206               238
Be gian flancs                        483               584           847             (434)            (518:         B751j             49                66
Canadian do lars                     1718Bd           1255            943            (1584)          ir, 101          931'             134               145
Danish kroner                         122               224           993              121J           12221          1993 1              1                 2
Deutsche na-k                        9127a           12.893           737           10129             7722            742'
4149            15'          190             19.207           20,561
European currency unts               2431a            2731n           815           (120)            12513,          (818             11 2(2158
F nn so markkaa                       209               358           9 79            (206)           (354           (9 811              3                 4
Frencn Irancs                        1,337            1194            924             (8071           '6081          (9 lo             530              586
Hong Kong do ars                      271               272           9 41            (2671           1270(          19 421              4                 2
Italan lire                          3.31O'           4110'          1106           (3,298)          (4098)         :l(971              12                12
apanese yen                         34,1 73a         28 775'          563              721             941            7340
(1,885)         l1.612)         i7 191'        33.009            28 104
Kuwat anars                            99               103           765              -                --                              99               103
Luxembourg lrancs                     142               186           796              (84)             (93)         '6211              58                93
Nenerlands rgaiders                  3.184            3 374           7 47             584             827            6 75
11,271)           (886)         17721           2,497             3,315
New Zeaann  dollars                   175               177          1265             1174)            1178         N1267i               1
Norweg an kroner                       34                41           9 55             -                 -                              34                41
Portuguese escudos                    195               249          1159             1194)           (2471         i 1 611              1                 2
Pounds sterling                      2,692d           2.711           988           (11381)         (11 Oi           19338           1.311            1t623
Spansh pesetas                       1.077            1,245          1182            (1 064)        (112291        '11831               13                16
Sweosh krenor                         279               402           1066            (278)           (3941         "lo867 R             I                 8
Swss francs                          5,692            6717            623            4.680            5.867           541'          10,372            12584
uniled Sates doliars               25013d0           229625          8620            4,030           4.046            853'
(3,158)         12.5061          7661'         25885             24502
Pr ncipal at lace value             92 535           91 657           732'
Plus net unamooized (d scounls)
neemiums                            (471              25
Tota                              $2488             $91,682
a. See Notes to Financial Statements-Noles D and E
b Includes zero-coupon borrow ngs which have beer recorded at their d scounled va ues The aggregate face amounts and discounted va ues of these
borrowings at June 30 were.
In nil 0ons of US-dollar equivalents                       Aggregale lace amoLrt                           Discornted value
Currency                                                 1993                   1992                  1993                   1992
Caradan dolars                                          $  156                 S  168                 $117                   $115
Deutsche mark                         .                   1.169                 1,295                  278                    289
Ita lan lire   .         .      ..                           64                    86                    47                    55
Swss francs          .  .      .                           858                    933                   212                   218
United States dollars       .                            2,969                  3,127                  608                    569
c Includes income and expense from  nteresl rate swaps At June 30, the lBRD had entered Into nterest rate swap agreements wilh respect to notional principal
amounts as fo lows:
In mil ons                                                          Currency amount                        US-dollar equivalent
Currency                                                        1993                 1992                1993                1992
Canadian dollars   .  .. .                                        149                  149             $  117               $  125
Deutsche mark                                                  13.569                8 269               7,932               5,353
French frarcs                        .  .    .                    984                  984                171                  190
Japanese yen          .                                        97.500               97.500                 922                 777
Pounds sterling                    .                              100                  100                 149                 189
Swedish kronor   .       .                                        300                  300                  38                  54
Swiss francs                  .   .                             1,124                1,124                 742                 806
United Slates do laos .              .  .  .  .                 4,521                4.260               4,521               4,260
(continued)



198    IBRD Financial Statements
Summary Statement of Borrowings
June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
As of June 30, 1993, 95 percent (93 percent-June 30, 1992) olthe above notional princ pal amounts of these interest rate swap agreements were from f oating
rates into lixed rales
d. Includes the fol owing variable interest rate borrowings at June 30 which through swaps were transformed into the linancial equiva ent ol lixed rate
borrowings:
In m Ilions
Currency amount                      US-dol ar equiva ent
Currency                                                     1993                1992               1993               1992
Canadian dollars       . .               .                      100                -              $   78               $ -
Deutsche mark       . .                                         200                -                  117                -
European currency unils                                         640               575                 734               764
Italian  ire   .            .   .                          200,000            200,000                 129               171
Japanese yen                   .     .  .  .                97,500             97,500                922                777
Pounds sterling.                   .  . .                        25                -                   37                -
United States do lars .               .1,377                                      380               1,377               380
e Inc udes $54 mil ion ($99 mil ion-June 30 1992) of var ab e rate borrowings and $173 mill on ($172 mi lion-June 30, 1992) borrowed from the Interest
Subsidy Fund. The Interest Subsidy Fund. which obtained its resources from voluntary contributions from member governments, was established to subsidize
the interest payments to the IBRD on selected loans.
f. The weighted average cost of medium- and long-term borrowings outstanding at June 30, 1993, afher adjustment for swap activities, was 6.90 percent 17.10
percent-June 30, 1992).
Maturity Structure of Medium- and Long-term Borrowings
Period
July   1,1993    through   June   30,  1994  .................................................                               .... .. .       $     7,958
July   1, 1994    through   June   30,  1995    ................................................... ..... .10,172
July 1,1995 through June 30. 1996                .       ................                     .     ..  .......... . .8,967
July 1, 1996 through June 30. 1997  ......................................................   .                                                 11,862
July 1  1997 through June 30, 1998 .............                                                           .    .........                      12,781
July 1  1998 through June 30, 2003 ......................................................   .                                                  28,763
July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2008 ....... ..............................................                                         .             3,927
July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2013  ........... ..   ................................                                          . .2,505
July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2018 ......................................................   .                                                   3,871
July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2023    .............                            .     ........................ . .1,399
rhereatten                                                                                                                                        330
Total   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $92,535
Short-term Borrowings
Weighled
average
Principal outstanding             cost (%)
1993               1992               1993
Short-term Notes (US dollars)
Principal outstanding at face value  ......... .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    ........  $1,306            $2,750
Net unamortized discounts and premiums   ............ .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  (13)      (1)
Subtotal                    .                   . . . ............... .                            1,293              2,749              3.57
Central Bank  Facility  (US  dollars)  ..............  ..  ..  .                    ..  .  ..  ..  .  .    .  2,482             2.600             3.59
Continuously Offered Payment-Rights (Swiss francs) ....... .  .   .                                            -                   25               -
Total.. .  .........................................                                                      $3,775               $5,374             3.58
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.



Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power                        199
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Subscr plions                                     Voting power
Perceniage                  Amounts                         Number       Percenlage
of          Total       paid n       Amounts subjecl       of            of
Member                                    Shares         tota        amounts      (Nole A)     to call (Note A)     votes         tota
Aighanistan ............. .                  300        0.02         S   36        $  4            S   33             550         0.04
Alban a .... . .                             830        0.06            100            4               97           1,080         0.08
Algeria.                                   5,192    0.38                626           52              574           5,442    0.38
Ango a ......            .                 2,676        019             323           17              305           2,926         0.21
Antigua and Barbuda .292                                0.02             35                            35             542         0.04
Argentina     .        .                  10,052        0.73           1.213         104            1,109          10,302         0.73
Armenia .               .                  1,139        0.08            137            6              131           1,389         0.10
Australia .          .              .    21,610         1.57          2 607          171            2,435          21.860         1.54
Austria        . .        .         .     11,063        0.81           1335           81            1,254          11.313         0.80
Azerbaijan             .                     924        (007            111            7              104           1.174         0.08
Bahamas, Te .1,071                                      0.08            129            5              124           1,321         0.09
Bahrain. .               .                   619        0.05             75            4               71             869         0.06
Banglade     gh .                          4,428        0.32            534          32               502           4.678         0.33
Barbados       .              .              948        0.07            114            4              110           1,198         0.08
Belars.. .                .     .          1.865        0.14            225           17              208           2,115         0.15
Belgium  .l.                              28.983        2.11          3,496         216             3,281          29,233         2.06
Belizee..        ..             .            329        0.02             40            1               39             579         0.04
Benin ..n.                         .         487        0.04             59            3               56             737         0.05
Bhutan .... ........ ....           .        479        0 03             58            1               57             729         0.05
Bolivia . . ...............                1,002        0.07            121            8              113           1,252         0 09
Botswana                                     615        0.04             74            2               72             865         0.06
Brazi               ..                    24,946        1.82          3.009         185             2.824          25.196         1.78
Bulgaria   .           .5,215                           0.38            629           37              593           5,465         0.39
Burkina Faso           .        .           487    004                   59            3               56             737    0.05
Burundi.                                     402        0.03             48            2               47             652         0.05
Cambodia                                     214        0.02             26            3               23             464         0.03
Cameroon .857    0.06                                                   103            7               97           1,107    0.08
Canada .44.795    3.26                                                5,404         335             5,069          45,045         3.18
Cape Vede .508   0.04                                                    61            1               60             758   0.05
Centra African Republic .484                            0.04             58            2               56             734         0.05
Chad ..                .                     484        0.04             58            2               56             734         0.05
Chile      . .     ..                      6,931        0.50            836           50              787           7,181         0.51
China ..........    .........    44,799                 3 26          1.404         335             5,069          45,049         3.18
Colombia                            .      6,352        0 46            766           45              721           6,602         0 47
Comoros ...  ................                282        0.02             34                            34             532         0 04
Congo ..          n.                         520        0.04             63            3               60             770         0.05
Costa Rica                          .        233        0.02             28            2               26             483         003
CMte dilvoire                       .      2,516        0.18            304           16              287           2,766         0.20
Croatia ...1,287                                        0.09            155           14              142           1,537         0.11
Cyprus. ...                                1.461        0.11            176            8              168           1,711         0.12
Czecn Republic' .3,522                                  0.26            425           36              389           3,772         0.27
Denmark .10,251                                         0.75          1,237           75            1,162          10,501         0.74
Dljboui .314   0.02                                                      38            1               37             564   0.04
Dominica .283   0.02                                                     34                            34             533    0.04
Dominican Republic .1,174                               0.09            142           10              132           1,424         0.10
Ecuador .1,555    0.11                                                  188           14              174           1,805    0.13
Egypt, Arab Republic of .7,108                          0.52            857           51              807           7,358         0.52
El Salvador .141    0.01                                                 17            2               15             391    0.03
(continued)



200       IBRD Financial Staitements
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Subscript ons                                   Voting power
Percertage                Amouris                         Number      Percentage
o1          Total      paid in     Amounls subject       Of           of
Member                                  Shares        tolal       amounts    (Note A)      lo call (Note A)    Votes        toala
Equatorial Guinea .. ......                401        0.03        $    48       $  2          $    41            651        0.05
Estonra....... .....                       518        0.04             62          3               60            168        0.05
Ethiopia ............                      918        0.01            118          5              113          1,228        0.09
Fiji .............                         128        0.05             88          4               84            918        0.07
Finland ...........                      8,560        0.62          1,033         62              971          8,810        0.62
France ............                     69,391        5.06          8,312        520            1,851         69,641        4.92
Gabon. ..   ..........                     554        0.04             61          4               63            804        0.06
Gambia, The .... .....                     305        0.02             31          1               36            555        0.04
Georgia ............                     1,584        0.12            191          9              182          1,834        0.13
Germany ........1...                     2,399        5.27          8,134        543            8,191         12,649        5.13
Ghana ..............                       856        0.06            103         10               93          1.106        0.08
Greece .............                       945        0.01            114         1 1             103          1.195        0. 08
Grenada ............                       531        0.04             64           1              63            181        0.06
Guatemala ...... ....                    1,123        0.08            135          9              126          1,313        0.10
Guinea ............                        725        0.05             81          5               82            915        0.01
Guinea-Bissau .. .......                   303        0.02             31          1               36            553        0.04
Guyana............                       1,058        0.08            128          5              122          1,308        0.09
Haiti .......... ..                        599        0.04             12          4               69            849        0.06
Honduras ...... ....                       360        0.03             43           1              42            610        0.04
Hungary ............                     8,050        0.59            911         58              913          8,300        0.59
Iceland  ............                    1,258        0.09            152          1              145          1,508        0.11
India .......... ..                     44,195        3.26          5,404        334            5.070         45,045        3.18
Indonesia...........                    14,981        1.09          1.801        110            1.691         15,231        1.08
Iran, Islamic Republic ot......         23.686        1.13          2,851        116            2.682         23,936        1.69
I raq.............                       2,808        0.20            339         21              312          3,058        0.22
Ireland............                      5,211        0.38            636         31              599          5,521        0.39
Israei ......... ...                     4,150        0.35            573         33              540          5,000        0.35
Italy .......... ..                     44,195        3.26          5,404        335            5,069         45,045        3.18
Jamaica ............                     2.201        0.16            266         15              250          2,451         0.117
Japan. .............                    93,110        6.83         11.312        103           10,608         94,020         6.64
Jordan .............                     1.388        0.10            161          8              160          1,638         0.12
Kazakhstan ..........                    1.615        0.12            202         15              181          1,925        0.14
Kenya........ .....                      2,461        0.18            291         16              281          2,111        0.19
Kiribati............                       261        0.02             31           -31                          511        0.04
Korea, Republic oft........              9,312        0.68          1,131         68            1,063          9,622        0.68
Kuwait............                      13.280        0.91          1,602         91            1,505         13,530        0.96
Kyrgyzslan...........                      621        0.05             15          4               71            811        0.06
Lao People's Democralic Repub ic. .        100        0.01             12          1               11            350        0.02
Latvia .111.........                        7         0.06             94          6               88          1,021        0.07
Lebanon ....... ....                      340         0.02             41          1               40            590        0.04
Lesotho ...........                        312        0.03             45          1               44            622        0.04
Liberia ............                       463        0.03             56          3               53            113        0.05
Libya . . . .......1...                   ,840        0.57            946         51              889          8,090        0.51
Lithuania ...........                      846        0.06            102          6               96          1,096        0.08
Luxembourg .... .....                    1,652        0.12            199         10              189          1,902        0.13
Madagascar 1.........                       98        0.06             96          6               90          1,048        0.01
Malawi .............                     1,094        0.08            132          6              126          1.344        0.09
Malaysia ...........                     8,244        0.60            995         59              935          8,494        0.60
Maldives. ............                     263        0.02             32                          32            513        0.04



Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power                   201
Subscript ons                                 Vot ng power
Percentage               Amounts                        Number    Percentage
of         Tota       pad n       Amounts subject      of          of
Member                                 Shares       tota       amounts    (Note A)    to cal (Note Ar      votes        tota
Mali ......... ...........               652        0.05       S    79      $   4          $   74           902        0.06
Malta . ..................             1.074        0.08          130           5             124          1,324       0.09
Marshall Islands, The ... . .....        263        0.02           32                          32           513         0.04
Mauritania .... . ..        .... .       505        0 04            61          3              58            755       0.05
Mauruius . ........ .... .             1,242        0.09           150          7             143          1,492       0.11
Mexico ............ . . ...    10,553               0 77         1,273        109           1.164         10.803       0 76
M cronesia                               41.... . ......   479  0.03  58        1              57            729       0 05
Moldova .                               1,368       0.10           165          8             157          1,61B        0.11
Mongolia . .................             466        0.03           56           2              54           716        0.05
Morocco ...................            2,791        0.20          337          27             310          3,041       0.21
Mozambique ........ ......               522        0.04            63          3              60            772        0.05
Myanmar ... ......           .. .      2,302        017           278          15             262          2,552       018
Namibia . ......... .....                855        0.06           103          6              97          1,105       0.08
Nepa ...................                 968        007           117           5             112          1.218       0.09
Netherlands ............. ...    35,503             2.59         4,283        265           4,018         35,753       2.52
New Zea and ...  .....  ....  ..       6,601        0.48          796          50             747          6,851       0.48
Nicaragua .... ........ ....             608        0.04            73          2              71           858        0.06
Niger .......... ........                478        0.03            58          2              55            728        0.05
Nigeria ..           ... ....  .        7,102       0 52          857          73             784          7,352        0.52
Norway ..................              9,982        0.73         1.204         73           1,132         10,232       0.72
Oman ................. .                1,561       011            188          9             179          1,811       0.13
Pakistan ........... .....             8,520        0.62         1,028         65             963          8.770       0.62
Panama ............. ..                  216        0.02            26          3              23           466        0.03
Papua New Guinea ....1... ...            726        0.05           88           5              83           976         0.07
Paraguay ................ ..             690        0.05           83           5              79           940        0.07
Peru.            ....                  2,992    0 22              361    29                   332    3,242   0.23
Phi ippines ...........  ....   .      3,841        0.28          463          38             425          4,091       0.29
Poland .. ........ .                   6,122        0 45          739          62             676          6,372       0.45
Portugal .          . ........         5,460        0.40          659          39             620          5.710       0 40
Qatar  ... . ... .............          1,096       0.08           132          9             123          1,346        0.10
Romania ....................           4.011        0.29          484          31             453          4,261       0.30
Russia .............. .....           25,140        1.83         3,033        263           2,770         25,390        1.79
Rwanda ....................              587        0 04            71          4              67           837         0.06
St. Kitts and Nevis ....... . ....       275        0.02            33                         33           525        0.04
St. Lucia . .................            552        0.04            67          2              65            802        006
St. Vincent and the Grenadines ...       278        0.02            34                         33           528        0.04
Sao Tome and Principe ......         .   278        0.02            34                         33           528        0.04
Saudi Arabia ................         44,795        3.26         5,404        335           5,069         45,045        3.18
Senega ...             .........        1,163       0 08           140         10             131          1,413        0.10
Seychelles ...................           263        0.02            32                         32            513       0.04
Sierra Leone ......        .........     403        0.03            49          2              47           653        0.05
Singapore        ... .........           320        0.02            39          4              35            570       0 04
S!ovak Republic' ..............         1,823       0.13          220          18             202          2,073        0.15
Slovenia ....................            708        0.05            85          8              78           958         0.07
Solomon Islands ..............           288        0.02            35                         34            538        0.04
Somalia ................ ...             552        0.04            67          3              63            802        0.06
Soulth Atrica ..  ..............      13,462        0.98         1,624         99           1.525         13.712        0.97
Spain ..................  23,68623,6                1.73         2,857        176           2.682         23,936        1.69
(continued)



202      IBRD Financial Statements
Statement of Subscriptions to
Capital Stock and Voting Power (continued)
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars
Subscript ons                                 Vot ng power
Percentage               Amounts                        Number    Percentage
ol         Total      pa d in     Amounts subject     of           of
Member                                 Shares       tolal      amounts    (Note A)    lo call (Note A)     votes        tolal
Sri Lanka ...................          3,817         0.28     $    460    $    26         $    434         4,067         0.29
Sudan ....................               850         0.06          103           7              95         1,100         0.08
Suriname   ...................           412         0.03           50           2              48          662          0.05
Swaziland ...................            440         0.03           53           2              51          690          0.05
Sweden ..... ..    14,974                            1.09        1,806         110           1,696        15,224         1.07
Switzerland ..................        26,606         1.94        3.210         197           3,012       26,856          1.90
Syrian Arab Republic    ...........    1,236         0.09          149          10             139         1,486         0.10
Tajikistan ................            1.060         0.08          128           5             123         1,310         0.09
Tanzania ....           ........         727         0.05           88           8              80          977          0.07
Thailand .....                         5.653 0.41                  682          43             639         5,903         0.42
Togo ....................                620         0.05           75           4              71          870          0.06
Tonga ....................               277         0.02           33           1              33          527          0.04
Trinidad and Tobago ...........         1,495        0.11          180          13             167         1,745         0.12
Tunisa ....................              719         0.05           87           6              81          969          0.07
Turkey ....................            7,379         0.54          890          53             837         7.629         0.54
Turkmenistan ........         ...        526         0.04           63           3              61           776         0.05
Uganda .......         . .               617         0.04           74           4              70          867          0.06
Ukraine ....................          10,908         0.79        1,316          79           1.237        11,158         0.79
United Arab Emirates ...........       2,385         0.17          288          23             265         2.635         0.19
United Kingdom ...............    69,397             5.06        8,372         540           7.832       69.647          4.92
United States .................   243,109           17.71       29,327       1,919          27.408      243.359         17.18
Uruguay ...........         ....       1,578         0.11          190          14             176         1,828        013
Uzbekistan ...................         1,399         0.10          169          12             157         1,649        012
Vanuatu ..               .......         586         0.04           71           2              69           836         0.06
Venezuela  ...................         11,427        0.83        1,378         118           1,260        11.677         0.82
Viet Nam .....      .                    543         0.04           66           7              59           793         0.06
Western Samoa ...............            298         0.02           36           1              35           548         0.04
Yemen, Republic ot ............        1,241         0.09          150          11             139         1,491         0.11
Zaire .......                          2,643         0.19          319          25             293         2,893         0.20
Zambia ................                1,577         0.11          190          16             175         1,827         0.13
Zimbabwe ...................            1,866        0.14          225          17             208         2,116         0.15
Total-June 30, 19932 .......... 1,372,648          100.00     $165,589    $10,531         $155,058    1,416,648        100.00
Tota -June 30, 1992  ......... 1,262,054                      $152,248    $10,060         $142.188    1,302,054
Indicales amounis less than $0.5 mi lion
Ncrr-:
t On January 1, t993 the Czech Repub ic and the S ovak Republic became members ot the IBRD. succeeding Ihe d ssolved Czech and S ovak Federal Republic
(CSFR). See also Noles to Financial Statements-Note A
2. May differ from the sum ot individua tigures shown because ol rounding.
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.



Notes to Financial Statements    203
Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting and  Related                              d scontinued in 1964 with respect lo subsequent loans and no turther
Policies                                                                    add lions are being made to it
The  BRD's f nancia  statements are prepared  in conformity with toe        The General Reserve consists of earn ngs from prior lisca years wh ch, in
accoLting prirnc pies generally accepted in the United States and with      the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in the IBRD's
International Accounting Standards.                                         ban ness
Surp us consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are reta ned by
Translation  of Currencies                                                  the IBRD until a funher decision  s made on their disposition or the
conditions ol transfer for spec ifed uses have been met
The IBRD's linanc a statements are expressed in terms of US dollars sole y
for the purpose of summar zing the IBRD's financia position and the results  Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings n the current fisca year
of its operations for the conven ence of ts members and other interested     Commencing in 1950), a portion or all of the Unal ocated Net Income has
parties                                                                     been al ocated fo the Genera Reserve Add t onally, ipson approva of the
Board of Governors, transters have been made out of Jnallocated Nel
The IBRD is an internat onal organizaton which conducts its operations in   Income to the International Development Assoc ation (IDA) (or facilities
the currencies ola I of its members The BRD's resources are der ved Irom    administered  by IDA) and Surplus, and from  Surplus to the Global
ts capitai borrow ngs, and accumulated earn ngs in those various curren-    Env ronment Trust Fund and the Techn ca Assistance Trust Fund for the
cies The IBRD has a number of general po icies a med at minimizing           Union of Soviet Socia ist Republics.
exchange-rate risk in a multicurrency environmenl The IBRD matches its
borrowing obligations n any one currency (after swap activ t es) with assets  Loans
n the same currency, as prescribed by its Artic es of Agreement. primar ly
by ho ding or lending the proceeds ol its borrow ngs in the same currencies  Al ol the IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans
n which they are borrowed In addition, the IBRD periodically undertakes     to the International Finance Corporation (IFCf. The maority oa the IBRD's
currency conversions to more closely match the currenc es under ying ts      loans have repayment obligalions in various currenc es determined on the
reserves with those of the outstanding loans With respect to its other      basis of a currency  pooling  system, wh ch is designed to equalize
resources, the IBRD does not convert one currency into another except for   exchange-rate risks among borrowers Except for ceotain loans which were
smal amounts required to meet certain obligat ons and operational needs      convented to the currency poo ng system   oans negot ated pr or to July
1980 and all S ngle Currency Loans are repayable in fhe currencies
Assets and nab lilies are translated at markel exchange rates at the end of  disbursed The IBRD introduced S ng e Currency Loans on a p lot basis in
the period. Income and expenses are translated at the market exchange rale  February 1993 Interest on a  oans is accrued in the currencies disbursed
at the dates on which they are recognzed or at average market exchange      and outstanding
rates  n effect dur ng each month  Translalion adjustments, wth the
exception of those relating to cap tal subscript ons described in Note A, are  Incremental direct costs assoc ated with originat ng oans are expensed as
charged or credited to Equity                                                ncurred as such amounts are cons dered mmaterial.
The IBRD does not reschedule interest or prncipal payments on ts loans or
Valuation  of Capital Stock                                                  partic pate in debt reschedu ing agreements w th respect to ts oans In
Ixceptional cases, however such as when  mplemenlation of a financed
In the Arm cles of Agreement, fthe capita stock of he IBRD s expressed n    project has been delayed, the oan amo szation schedule may be moditied
terms of "US dollars of the weighl and t neness in effect on July 1 1944''  to avo d substanial repayments prior to project complet on It is the po icy
(1944 do lars) Fo low ng the abolition of gold as a common denominator      ol the IBRD to place in nonaccrual status al loans made to or guaranteed
oa the monetary system  and the repeal of the provision of the US law       by a member of the IBRD i principa, interesl, or other charges w th respect
defining the par va ue of the US dollar n terms of gold, the pre-exishng    to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD
bass for translating 1944 dollars nto current dollars or into any other     management delermines that the overdue amount wil be collected m the
currency disappeared The Execut ve Directors of the IBRD have dec ded,      immediate future In addilion, if development credits by IDA to a member
unt I such t me as the re evant prov sions of the Antic es of Agreement are  government are placed  n nonaccrua status all loars to that member
amended, that the words "US do lars of the weight and f neness in effect on  government wi I also be placed in nonaccrual stalus by l he IBRD On the
July 1, 1944" n Article II, Section 2(a) ol the Aricles of Agreement of the  dage a member's loans are placed n nonaccrua status, unpaid interest and
IBRD are interpreted lo mean the Speca Drawing Right (SDR) introduced       other charges accrued on oans ousttanding to the member are deducted
by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms oa US     trom  the income ol the current period. Interest and other charges on
do lars immediately before the introduclion of the basket method of valu ng  nonaccruing loans are included in income on y to the extent that paymenis
the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value be ng $1.20635 for one SDR               have actually been received by the IBRD Oe the date a member pays in Iu I
all overdue amounls, its oans emerge from nonaccrua stalus, its el gibi ity
Retained  Earnings                                                          for new loans s restored  and all overdue interest and other charges,
including those from prior years are recogn zed as income in the current
Rota ned Earnings consists of allocaled amounts (Speca Reserve. General     period
Reserve, and Surplus) and Unallocated Net Income The IBRD has not
declared or paid any d vidends to ils members                               The IBRD delermines toe Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses based on
an assessment ol col ecibility risk ol the total loan portfolio including loans
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuanf to       n nonaccrual status The Accumulaled Prov sion is perodically adjusled
Anicle IV, Section 6, of the Antic es of Agreement which are to be he d in   based on a review of the prevail ng circumstances and wi I be used to meet
liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting     actual losses on loans. Should such losses occur n amounts in excess ol
liablities of the IBRD on its borrowmgs and guarantees in the event of      the Accumulated Provision (and of the amount of the Special Reserve), the
defau ts on loans made, paticipated in, or guaranteed by the IBRD  The      excess wou d be included in the determination of net income Annual
Special Reserve assets are included under Investments, comprising obliga-   adiustments to the Accumulated Provision are recorded as a charge or credit
tions of the United Slates Government, ts agenc es, and ts instrumenta -    to income
ities The al ocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was                                                                  (contnued)



204    IBRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
Investments                                                                 1992) whicn were the proceeds from encashments of US-dol ar-denomi-
nated notes which are included in the amounts mentioned in (21 above. are
The IBRD carries ts investment securitfes at markel value. Both realized and  Ireely usabe by the IBRD  n any of ts operations. The portion of the
unrealized gains and nosses are inc uded in ncome from investments. From    amounts paid in US-dol ar-denominated notes are encashed by the IBRD in
time to time the IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase  accordance with the schedules agreed between the members and the IBRD
of investment secur t os these transactions are recorded at the time ot     The remaining amounts paid n the currencies of the members referred to
commitment.                                                                 as restricted currenc es, are usab e by the BRD in its ending operat ons
Doe to the nature of the investments held by the IBRD and its po icies      on y with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative
governing the revel and ase of sach investments, the IBRD class ties the    expenses. The equiva ent of $5,397 mi ion ($5,465 mi lion-dune 30.
investment portfolio as an element ol liquid ty n the Statement of Cash     1992) has been used for tend ng purposes. witn such consent.
F ows.                                                                      Maintenance of Value: Anic e 11 Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement
provides for maintenance of value as of the time of subscriplion of such
Fair Value of Financial Instruments                                         resiricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make addit onal payments
to the IBRD in the event Ihat the par value of its currency is reduced or Ihe
The IBRD adopted a new account ng standard n June 1993 that requires        foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the IBRD,
disclosure of the estimated "fair va ue" of financial instruments. Such fair  depreciated to a s gnificant extent in its territories and (2) the IBRD to
values are not recorded n the accounts of the BAD  but are discosed in      reimburse the member in the event Ihat the par value of its currency is
Note E as additiona information                                             increased.
The fair va ue of financia instruments that are shos-term approximates their  Since currenc es no longer have par va ues maintenance-of-value amounts
carrying value                                                              are determined by measuring the foreign exchange va ue of a member's
currency against tne standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974
F nancial irstrurents for which marke quotations are avai able have been    SDR. Members are required to make payments to the IBRD if their currenc es
valued  at the prevailing  market value at June 30, 1993  Financia          depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the
nstruments for which market quotalions are not readily ava lable have been  Executive Directors decided to adopt a policy of reimbursing members
valued using metnodologies and assumptions that necessarily require the     whose currenc es appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
use of subjective judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which such
financial instruments cou d be exchanged in a current transaction or whether  W th respect to restricted currencies out on loan. maintenance-of-value
they are actually exchangeable is not determ nable.                          obligations become effective on y as such currencies are recovered by the
IBRD The maintenance-of-value amounts relating to restr cted currencies
Reclassifications                                                           oul on loan are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency
Holdings-Amounts Deferred.
Certa n reclass fications of the prior year s information have been made to  Membership: On Februarv 25, 1993, the IBRD's Executive Directors
conform to the current year's presentation.                                 decided that tne Socialist Federa Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased
to be a member of the IBRD and Ihat the Republic of Bosnia and
Note A-Capital Stock, Restricted  Currencies,                               tHerzegovna. the Republic of Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republc of
Maintenance of Value, and  Membership                                       Macedonia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Federa Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) are authorized  lo succeed  to the SFRY s
Capital Stock: At June 30. 1993, the BRDs capta comprised 1525,659          membership when cerain requirements are met The Republics of Croatia
(1525 659--June  30, 1992) authorized  shares, of which  1,372648           and Slovenia have since become members of the IBRD. The Republ c of
(1f262,054-june 30, 1992) shares had been subscribed Each share has         Croatia was allocated 2,293 shares, of which 1,287 shares have been
a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rale of $1 20635 per     subscribed through June 30  1993, and the Republic of Slovenia was
1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $10,531 million ($10,060 m I ion-      a located 1,261 shares, of which 708 shares have been subscribed through
June 30, 1992) has been paid in. and the remaining $155,058 mill on         June 30  1993  The paid-in portion of the SPRY's subscribed capita
($142,188 million-June 30, 1992) is subject to ca I only when required to   a located to the other successor Republics (the Republic of Bosnia and
meet the obligations of the IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing       Herzegovina, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the Federal
loans. As to $132,471  mi lion ($121,798 milliona-June 30. 1992) the        Repub ic of Yugoslava (Serbia and  Montenegro)) is included under
restriction on calls s imposed by the Articles of Agreemenl and as to        "Payments on Account of Pending Subscriptions."
$22,587 mil ion ($20,390 mi lion-June 30. 1992) by resolutions of the
Board of Governors.                                                         On January 1 1993, the Czech Republic and the S ovak Republic became
members of the IBRD succeeding the dissolved Czech and S ovak Federal
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid in to      Repub ic (CSFR). As agreed between the succeeding republ cs, all righls
the IBRD is divided info two parts: (1) $1 053 million ($1,006 m Ilion-     and obligations attached to the membership status of CSFR in the IBRD were
June 30, 1992) initially paid in gold or US do lars and (2) $9,478 million  divided between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. As a result of
($9,054 mil ion-June 30, 1992) pad in cash or noninterest-bearing           such agreement, on January 1, 1993, the Czech Republic was allocated
demand obligations denominated either in the currencies of the respective   6 308 shares, of which 3,522 shares have been subscribed, and the S ovak
members or in US dollars The amounts mentioned in (1) above. and (i)        Republic was a located 3 216 shares, of which 1,823 shares have been
$656 million ($646 mil ion-June 30. 1992) which were repurchased by          subscribed.
members with US do lars, ard (i) $208 million ($122 milliona-June 30



Notes to Financial Statements    205
Note B-Investments and Cash Collateral                                       Note C-Loans, Cofinancing and Guarantees
Invested                                                                    Loans: On July 28, 1992  the IBRDs Executive Directors approved a
A summary o1 the currency composition ot Investmenls and Cash Co lateral     one-year nlerest waiver of 35 basis points on disbursed and outstanding
Invested at June 30, 1993 and June 30 1992 is as follows.                   loans for ali payment periods commenc ng n the f scal year ending June 30.
1993 for all eligible borrowers For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1992, the
In millions of US-dollars equivalent                                        interesl waiver approved was 25 bas s points. On July 28, 1992, the
Executive Directors also exlended the one-year commitment tee waiver of 50
Currency                                   1993                1992          basis po nts on undisbursed loans lo all borrowers for an add t onal period
Deutsche mark          . . .                  774            $ 1,946        of one year
Japanese yen   .          .  .              5,189              4,989
Pounds sler ing .     .                     1,456               1.689       On February 25, 1993. the IBRD's Executive Directors decided that the
Uniled States dollars                      10,948             18.861        Socialisl Federal Republic of Yugosavia (SFRY) has ceased to be a member
Other currencies   .                        1,999              2,004        of the IBRD and toat certain successor Republics are e igible to succeed to
the SFRY's membership (see Note A) The Repub ics of Croat a and Slovenia
Total .                                   $20,366            $29,489        have s nce fultil ed the requirements of success on and have become
members of the 18R The IBRD has also reached final agreements with the
As part of its overal portfol o management strategy, the IBRD  s party to    Former Yugoslav Repub ic of Macedonia and the Federal Repub ic of
financ al instruments w th off-balance-sheet risk, nclud ng futures, forward  Yugos avia (Serb a and Montenegro) (FRY) tor the serv ce oa debt due to the
contracts, covered forward contracts, options, and short sales Futures and  IBRD on loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY and assumed by these
torward contracis are contracts for delayed de ivery of secur ties or money  Republics Discussions are continuing with the Republic of Bosnia and
market nstruments in wh ch the seller agrees to make del very at a spec tied  Herzegovina on the service ot loans to be assumed by it, in the interim.
fulure date of a specified instrument, at a specif ed price or y eld At June 30,  loans benefiting Ihe Republ c of Bosnia and Herzegov na are included with
1993, the total contract va ue of futures contracts was $9,277 million      the loans assumed by the FRY The IBRD treats loans to Ihe other Repub ics
($17,803 m lion-June 30, 1992), and the IBRD's exposure lo cred t loss       separately
on futures contracts due to potential nonperformance of counterpartnes was
$13 m Ilion ($40 million-, une 30, 1992J. On June 30, 1993, the total       At June 30, 1993, pr ncipal nstallments of $16 million and  nterest and
contract va ue of lorward contracts was $450 million ($474 miltlon--         other charges of $20 mil on payable to IBRD on loans were overdue by
June 30, 1992) On June 30, 1993 the IBRD s exposure to credit loss on        more than three months. At June 30, 1993. the aggregate pr ncipa amounts
forward contracts in the event of norpertormance by courterparties was $0.2  outstandcig on all oans to any borrower, other than reterred to  n the
m Ilion At June 30  1992, the IBRD had no exposure lo credit loss on        follow ng paragraph w th any loan overdue by more than three months was
forward contracts in the event of nonperformance by counterparties          $755 mill on
Covered forwards are agreements  n which cash  in one currency  is          At June 30  1993. the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member
convened nto a d terent currency and simu taneously, a forward exchange     countr es and the Federal Republic oi Yugos avia (Sorbia and Montenegro),
agreement is executed provid ng tor a future exchange of the two currencies  Ihe Former Yugos av Republ c of Macedonia, and the Repub c ot Bosnia
in order to recover the currency converted At June 30. 1993 the IBRD had    and Herzegovina with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $2,497
gross receivables trom covered forward agreements of $989 mi I on ($328     m lion ($2,085 m Ilion-June 30. 1992), of which $772 m Ilion ($861
mdi ion-June 30, 1992) and  gross payables from  covered  lonward           m  ion-June 30  1992) was overdue, were n nonaccrual status As ot
agreements of $997 mi lion ($376 ml I or-Jure 30, 1992) At June 30,          such date, overdue interest and other charges in respect of these oans
1993, the IBRD's exposure to credit loss in the event ot nonpertormance by  totaled $509 mill on ($730 m  ion--June 30 1992) If these loans had not
counterpanties was $12 million ($0 1 millioAune 301992)                     been in nonaccrual status, income from  loans for the fiscal year ended
June 30. 1993 wou d have been higher by $244 million ($61 mill on-
Options are contracts that allow the holder ot the option to purchase or sell  June 30 1992) A summary of member countr es and repub ics with oans
a tinancial instrument at a specified price and within a spec f ed per od of  or guarantees n nonaccrual status follows
time from the seller or to the purchaser of the opt on As a sel er ot options.
the IBRD receives a premium at the oulset and then bears the r sk oi an                                              In mi lions
untavorable change in the price of the fnancial instrument underly ng the
option. The total contract value of opt ons sold at June 30. 1993 was $48                                          June 30 1993
mill on ($1,020 m lion-June 30 1992)                                                                               Pr ncipal
Short sa es are sa es of secur ties not held n the IBRD's portfolio at the time                      Principa    and ctiarges
of the sa e The IBRD musl purchase the security at a later date and bears   Country/Republ c       outstand ng      overdue      Nonaccrual since
the risk that the market value ot the security will move adverse y between the
tme ot the sae and the time the secur ty must be delivered. The Iota        Congo                    $  163         $   65     September 1991
contract amount of shor sales at June 30, 1993 was $303 mi ion ($2 598      Iraq                         44             31      December 1990
m lion-June 30. 1992)  This amount is included in Payab es for              L bera                      141            166     June 1987
Investment Securities Purchased                                             Syrian Arab Republic        424            401     February 1987
Former Yugoslav
For both on- and off-balance-sheet securities, the IBRD limits tradrng to a    Repub ic ol
list of authorized dealers and counterpart es. Credit imits have been          Macedonia                159             88     September 1992
established for each counterparty by type of instrument and matur ty         Bosnia-Herzegov na'
category                                                                        Federal Repub ic
of Yugoslava           1,566           530      September 1992
The annual zed rate ot return on average investments net of cash collateral    Total                 $2,497         $1 281
received, held during the period ended June 30. 1993  including both                                 _
realized and unrealized ga ns and losses was 6 09 percent (8 07 percent-                                                             (continued)
June 30. 1992).



206    IBRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
During the fiscal year ended June 30 1993, Peru and Guatemaa paid off       At June 30, 1993, the IBRD had gross receivables from currpncy swaps at
all of their arrears and therefore loans to them  came out of nonaccrual    a book value of $18,947 mil on ($18846 million--June 30  19921 and
status. As a result, income from  loans for the lisca year ended June 36,    gross payab es trom currency swaps at a book value of $20,144 mil ion
1993 increased by $407 million corresponding to income that wou d have      ($t9,403 mi lion-June 30, t992). In addition, the IBRD had interest rate
beer accrued in previous tiscal years. For the liscal year ended June 30    swap contracts covering a not onal principal amount of $t4.592 million on
1992, the increase in loan income trom loans to countries coming out of     June 30, 1993 ($11.754 mi  on-June 30, 1992).
nonacorual status durng mat period was $222 mitlion.                        At June 30, 1993, the IBRD was exposed to credit loss in the event of
An analysis of the changes to the accumulated provision tor oan osses        nonperformance by its counterparties in an aggregate amount of $1.312
appears below:                                                               mil ion ($1,400 mi lion-June 30, t992) for outstanding currency swaps,
and $98 mi lion ($79 million-June 30, 1992) for outstanding interest rate
n mil ions             swaps. representing the estimated cost of replacing, at current market rates,
1993             t992        a I those oulslanding swaps for which the IBRD wouid incur a loss in
Balance. beginning of fiscal year   ,        $2,540           $1,990        rep acing the contracts
Provision for oan losses                        578              353        The IBRD undertakes swap transactions with a list of authorized counter-
Translation adjustments                           32              197        oarties. Cred t and maturity I mits have been established for each counter-
Ba ance, end of fiscal year                  $3,150           $2,540        party.
The IBRD enters into deferred rate setting agreements in conjunct on with
Cofinancing and Guarantees: Tne BRD has entered into agree-                  some of ts bond issues These agreements prov de tor payments to be made
ments for loans syndicated by other financia institutons enher by a direct  lo or by the IBRD reflecting gain or loss on one or more government
partic pation in, or a panial guarantee ol, loans for the benefit of member  securities These agreements allow the IBRD to fix the effect ve interest cost
countries or a parial guaranlee of securities ssued by an entty elig be for  lo the IBRD of all or a porion of the issues over a specified period of time
IBRD  oans. The IBRD s d rect participations in syndicated loans are        after the issue date of the respective bond The potential cred t loss to the
included n reported oan balances                                            IBRD from nonpenformance is I mited to any amounts due, but unsettled,
from the f nancial intermediary  However periodic mark-to-markel seble-
Guarantees o1 $1,134 mimon at June 30, 1993 ($1,136 million-,une 30         ments on these agreements imit this risk. At June 30, 1993 and June 30,
1992) were not inc uded in reported loan balances. $150 m Ilion of these     1992, the effective interest cost had been fixed on all tranches of deferred
guarantees was subject to call at June 30 1993 and June 30, 1992.            rate segting agreements. At June 30 1993 and June 30, 1992, the IBRD had
The IBRD has partial y guaranteed the timely payment of interest amounts on  no exposure to credit oss on the agreements
certain loans that have been sod. At June 30  t993, these guarantees         The BRD a so enters nto ant c patory rate seling agreements in conjunct on
approximating $5 mi lion ($8 mil ion-June 30, t9921 were subject to cal .   with some of its bond issues These agreements al ow the IBRD through a
Statutory Lending Limit: Under Ihe An cles of Agreement, the total           series of torward sales of U.S. Treasury securities, to tix the effective interest
amount outstanding of guarantees, panicipalions in oans, and direct loans    cosl of a  or a porion of the issues over a period of lime prior to the issue
made by the IBRD may not be ncreased to an amount exceeding tOO              date of the respective bond. Al June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992. there were
percenl of tne sum  of subscr bed capital, reserves, and surp us. On the     no outstanding lorward sa es under such agreements, and the IBRD had no
IBRD's Balance Sheet, reserves and surp us correspond to items abelled      exposure to credit loss on the agreements.
Retained Earnings Cumulative Translation Adjustment, and Accumulated
Provision tor Loan Losses. The IBRD's Executive Directors have issued       Note E-Disclosures about Fair Value of
guidelines pursuant to which all guarantees issued by the IBRD wi I be       Financial Instruments
counted towards this imit at the lime they first become callable, irrespective
of the likelihood of an actual cal . In March 1991  the BRDs Executive       Investments and Cash Collateral Invested: Since the IBRD
Directors decided that discussions on an additional capftal increase would  carries ils investment securilies, ncluding derivative instruments, at market
be initiated  if the Iota  amount outstand ng o1 callable  guarantees,      va ue the carrying amount represents the fair value of the portfolio These
participations in loans, and direct ioans were to exceed 80 percent of the  lair va ues are based on quoted market prices where available. If quoted
sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surp us At June 30, 1993, such      market pr ces are not available ta r values are based on quoted market
Iota amount was $105 b Ilion, or 57 percent (60 percent-June 30. 19921       prices of comparab e instruments.
of such sum.
Loans: Al of the IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that
are members of the IBRD. The IBRD does not currently se I its loans nor is
Note D-Borrowings and  Swaps                                                there a market of loans comparab e to those made by the IBRD. The IBRD
has never suffered a loss on any of its oans although trom time to time
The BRD has entered nto currency swaps in which proceeds of a borrowing     certain borrowers have tound  t difficult to make t mely payments for
are converted  nto a different currency and  simu taneously  a torward       protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual
exchange agreement  s executed providng  for a scnedule  of future           status. Several borrowers have emerged Irom nonaccrual status after a
exchanges of the two currencies in order to recover the currency converted   period ot time by bringing up-to-date al principa payments and all nterest
The combination ot a borrowing and a currency swap produces the financia     payments  including  nterest and other charges on overdue principal
equiva ent of substituting a borrowing in the currency obta ned in the initial  payments In an atempt to recognize the r sk inherent n these overdue
conversion for the or gina borrowing. The IBRD also undertakes interest rate  payments, the IBRD maintains a provision for loan losses. The balance of
swaps which transform  a fixed-rate payment obligat on in a particu ar      the Accumulated Provision for Loans Losses at June 30, 1993 was $3.150
currency nto a floating-rate obligation n tnat currency and vice-versa The  mi I on
average cost of borrowings outstanding, inc uding shord-term borrowings,
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993 was 701  percent (729             On loans negotiated prior to July 1982, the BRD charges nterest at a fixed
percent-June 30, 1992) reflecting a reduction in interest expense of $367   rate. At June 30  1993, the total carrying value of f xed-rate oans was
million ($483 mi lion-June 30, 1992) as a result of swaps.                  $23,619 million. The estimated fair value of these loans was $26,364



Notes to Financial Statements    207
mi ion This amount is based on d scounled fulure cash flows us ng the rale  Transfers to Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Coun-
at wh ch the IBRD cou d undertake borrowings of comparable matur t es al    tries: In September 1989, the Board ol Governors approved a transfer to the
June 30, 1993 plus a 50 basis point spread                                   Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries of $100 mi lion from  net
income earned in rhe fiscal year ended Jane 30, 1989 Ot these fends, $53
In 1982, tne IBRD mntgated its initerest rate rsk by moving from fixed-rate  milon remained payable at June 30. 1993 ($82 millio3 -.June 30, 19921
to oariable-rate ending Tne rate charged on sariab u-rate onos is based on
the IBRD s own cost of qual fied borrow ngs p us a 50 bas s point spread,   Transfer to  Technical Assistance  Trust Fund  for the
resulting in a pass-tnrough of ts average borrowing costs to those members   Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: On September 18 1991, the
that benefit from IBRD loans At June 30 1993, the tota carrying va ue of     Board of Governors authorized a transfer from Surplus of $30 mil on to the
var ab e-rate loans was $80 832 mi lion The estimated fair va ue of these   Technical Assistance Trust Fund for the Union of Son el Socia ost Repubics
loans was $86,398 mi lion S nce the nterest rate for vanriab e-rate oans is  for the benelil of the USSR and its republics This amount was paid in October
based on the nterest rate of the qualified borrowings, the fair va ue of    1991
variable-rate loans has been est maled based on the re at onsh p oa the fair
value to the current value of the underlying borrowings
Borrowings: At June 30 1993, the tolal carrying value of the IBRD's         Note G-Expenses
medium- and long-term  borrowings portfolio was $92,488 million  Tne
eslimated fair value of these borrowings was $99,505 m I ion  These         Admimstrative expenses are Pet of the management fee of $467 mi I on
amounts are based on quoted market prices where such prices are avai able.   ($395 mill on--une 30. 1992) charged to IDA and $95 mil ion ($101
Where no quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated based  mitihon-June 30, 1992) charged to reimbursable programs Service and
on the cost at which the IBRD could currently undenake borrowings w th      support fees of $10 mil ion ($9 mi ion-June 30, 1992) charged to IFC and
similar terms and remaining maturities, using the secondary market yie d    $0 6 mi lion ($0.5 mi ion-Jaune 30, 1992) charged to the Multilalera
cuve                                                                       Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) are ncluded n the amounts charged
to reimbursab e programs
Swaps: At June 30, 1993, the estimated fa r value of Ihe IBRD's net payable
for currency swaps, with a carrying va ue of $1 972 m lion, was $1,196       Contr but ons to specia programs represent grants [or agr cultura research.
m 11 on. As of that dale the estimated lair value ol the IBRD's net receivab e  the conftr  of onchocercasis, and other developmental act itnes
from currency swaps. with a carrying value of $775 m Ilion, was $t 312
mi lion The fair value of interest rate swaps, with a notional principal
amount of $14,592 mill on, was $1 093 million payable These amounts          Note H-Staff Retirement Plan
represent tne estimated cost of rep acing these contracts on thot date
The IBRD has a delined benefil retirement plan covering subsrantially a I ot
Note F-Retained  Earnings and  Allocation  of                                ts staff Tne Plan also covers substantia ly all the staff ol IFC and MIGA
Net Income                                                                  Under the Plan, benef ts are based on the years of contributory service and
the highest three-year average of pensionable remuneration as detined in the
Retained Earnings: Reta ned Earn ngs comprises the tollowing ele-            Pan. with the staff contributing  a txed  percentage  ol pensonable
ments as of June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992                                 remuneralion, and the IBRD contribuling the remainder ot the actuaria iy
determ ned cost of future Plan benefits. The IBRD uses the aggregate
n mi ions               method for determ ning its conlribution to the Plan The amount ol that
1993              1992         contribution approximates the net periodic pension cost as detailed below
A I contributions to the Plan and al other assets and income he d for the
Special Reserve    .  .                    $   293           $   293        purposes of the P an are he d by the IBRD separate y from the other assets
General Reserve             .               11,144             10,894       and income of the IBRD. DA  FC and MIGA and can be used on y for the
Surplus  .    -                               1,465              370        benetit of the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries, until al
Una, ocated Net Income for the                                              liab ities to them  have been paid or provided for Plan assets consist
fsca year             .     .              1,130             1,645       p ariy ol equvty and fixed income securities, with sma oar holdings of
$14,032           $13 202        cash real estate. and other investments
On July 28, 1992, the Execut ve Directors allocated $250 m I ion of the net  Net periodic pension cost for BRD part c pants for the fiscal years ended
ncome earned in the fisca year ended June 30, 1992 to the Genera            June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992 cons sted of the following componenis:
Reserve. On the same date, the Execut ve Directors also recommended the                                                            In mil ions
transfer, by way of a grant of $300 mi lion to IDA and the retent on of the
remaining $1,095 mi I on of net income as Surplus, and that an amount                                                         1993           1992
equivalent to $375 million be transferred oul of Surplus as a further grant  Serv ce cost-benetits earned during the
to IDA when the tenth replenishment of IDA's resources becomes effective.       fiscal year   ,                 ,             $ 155          $ 145
On September 24, 1992 the Board of Governors approved tne recommen-         Interest cost on projected benefit
dations of the Executive D rectors                                              obl gation                   . .  .            295             261
Actua return on plan assets     .  .              (500)          (4221
Transfers to International Development Association: The                      Net amortzation and deferral                       153            109
Board of Governors approved transfers to IDA tota ng $3.808 ml lion from                                                      -              -
Unallocated Net Income for the fiscal years ended June 30 1964 through       Net periodic pension cost        .     .         $103           $  93
June 30, 1987, and June 30, 1989 through June 30 1992 Transfer of $960
million remained payable at June 30, 1993 ($1 030 mi lion-June 30           The portion of th s cost that reates to the IBRD and  s ncluded in
1992) In addit on, on September 24, 1992, the Board of Governors approved   Admin strative Expenses tor the fiscal year ended June 30  1993 is $64
a transfer of $375 million to IDA when the tenth rep enishment of IDA's      million ($59 mi I on-June 30, 1992). The balance has been ncluded in the
resources becomes effective                                                 management fee charged to IDA
(continued)



208    IBRD Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements  (continuedi
The tollowing tabie sets forth the Plan's lunded status at June 30 1993 and  Net periodic postret rement benefits cost for IBRD paricipants for the fisca
June 30 1992:                                                               years ended June 30. 1993 and June 30. 1992 consisted ot the following
components:
In millions                                                                    In mil ions
1993        1992                                                                1993       1992
Actuarial present value ot benefit obligat ons                               Service cost-benef ts earned during the
Accumulated benefit obligation                                               tisca year.                  .                       14       S 10
Vested.                  .        .        $(3,047)    $(2,664i        tnterest cost on accumulated postrelirement
Nonvested   ... .                               (34)   (35)               benefit obligat on.                      .           26    20
Actua return on plan assets                            (31)       (1St
Sublotal          .                       (3,081)     (2,699)       Net amortzation and deferra                             15
Effecl of projected compensation leve s        (1)673)      (1,387)                                                            $           $
Projected benefit obligat on  .   . . .      (4,754)     (4 086)                                                             $ 24       $ _ _
Plan assets at fair via 00.4,927                               4,274
Pnsttavu . . .9 2  The portion of th s cost that reiates lo the IBRD and  s  nc uded  n
Plan assets in excess of projected benefit                                  Adminisirative Expenses for the tisca year ended June 30, 1993 s $15
obligation  . .                                  173          188        million ($9 million--Joune 30 1992). The balance has been included in the
Remain ng unrecognized ret trans t on asset         (130)       (143)       management fee charged to IDA.
Unrecognized prior service cost       .               99         107        The following table sets forth the RSBP's tunded status at June 30, 1993 and
Unrecognized net gain from past experence                                   June 30, 1992
different trom that assumed and from
changes in assumptions            .        .     (142)       (152)                                                                In millions
Prepaid pension cost                             $     0     $ O                                                                 1993        1992
The weighted-average d scount rate used in determining the actuarial        Accumulated postretirement benefif obtigation:
present vaoue of the projected senefif osligation was 7.5 percent (825         Futly eligible acte plan participants            $(101)         (51)
percent--June 30, 1992). The effect of projected compensation levels was       Olher actioe plan paricipants . .      . .        (283)        (146
calcu ated based on a scale thal provides for a decreasing rate of saary       O       t      n          t3
increase depend ng on age, beginning with 13 percent at age 20 and                                                               (603)        (3121
decreasing to 7 6 percent at age 64. The expected long-term rate ot return
on assets was 9 percent 19 percent-June 30 1992).                           Pan assets at tair va ue            .   .             624          230
Plan assets in excess of accumulated
postretirement benef t ob igation                  21          (82)
Note I-Retired  Staff Benefits Plan                                         Unrecognized transition ob igation   . .  .            29           31
Unrecognized net oss from past experience
The BRD has a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) that provides certair         diflerent from that assumed and from
health care and ife nsurance benef ts to retirees. Alt statf who are enro ed   changes in assumptfons       ...                   293           53
in the insurance programs while in active service and who meel certain      Prepa d postrelirement benefit cost .    ..           343        $   2
requirements are eligible for benefits when they reach early or norma
retirement age while working for the BRD. The RSBP a so covers the staff    Of the S343 mi L on prepa d as ol June 30, 1993. $315 mil ion is artr butab e
of IFC and MIGA.                                                            to the BRD and is included n M scellaneous Assets on the Balance Sheet.
Retirees contribute a evel amount toward  ife insurance based on the        The remainder has been aflributed to IFC and MIGA
amount of coverage. Ret ree contributions toward health care are based on    For June 30, 1993, the APBO was delermined using healih care cost trend
engfh of senoce an0  age at retirement. The IBRD annually contributes the   rates of t15 to 16 2 percent, decreasing gradualty to 5.0 percent in 2010
rema nder of the actuarially  determined cost for tuture benefts  Al        and thereaher The health care cost trend rate used for June 30 1992 was
contributions to the RSBP and a I other assets and income held for purposes  12 percent decreasing gradually to 7 percenl n 2003 and thereafter.
of the RSBP are held by the BRD separatey from the other assets and
income of the IBRD, IDA  IFC. and MIGA and can se used only for the         The health care cost trend rate assumption has a signiticant effecl on the
benefit of the paricipants in the RSBP and the r beneficiar es until all    amounts reported  To illustrate, increasing the assumed hea th care cost
liab I ties to them  have been paid or provided for RSBP assets consisl     trend rates by one percentage point wou d increase the accumu ated
primari y of fixed ncome and equ ty securities                              postretirement benefit ob igat on as of June 30, 1993 by $124 mi ion and
the net periodic postretirement benelit cost for the tisca year then ended by
During FY93 the IBRD reviewed and modio ed certain assumpt ons used in       $10 m Ilion
calcutating its accumulated post rem rement berefit bligation APBO) to
reflect aclual experience. These modilications resulted in an increase in the  The weighled average discount rate used in determining the accumulaled
APBO  and a special one-t me conlribut on of $343 mi I on was made to        postretirement benefit ob igation was 7.5 percent (9 percent- 1992i. The
fund this ncrease The IBRDOs share ol this contribution was $315 mi lion     expected long-lerm  rate of return on plan assets was 7.5 percent (9
The remainder was contributed by FC and MIGA                                 percenl-l 992)



209
Report of Independent Accountants
Price Waterhouse    The Hague                New York
(International Firm)    Beijing            Tokyo
Hong Kong              Washington
London
Price WJa,terhouse
July 26, 1993
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 189 through 208 of this Report present fairly, in
all material respects. in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development at June 30, 1993 and 1992, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States and with International Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of
management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development: our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Auditing Guidelines, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
(                       F>~~~~~~~~~~~~~)






211
Financial Statements of the
International Development Association and
the Special Fund Administered by IDA
Statements of Development Resources 212
Statements of Changes in Accumulated Surplus 213
Statements of Cash Flows 213
Summary Statement of Development Credits 214
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions and Contributions 217
Notes to Financial Statements 221
Report of Independent Accountants 225



212       IDA and  Special Fund Financial Statements
Statements of Development Resources
June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                    Specia Fund
1993         1992         1993          1992
Development Resources
NET ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
Cash and inveslments immedialely availab e for disbursement
Due from banks.5 . .  . . .                                                 .                    4  $ 43  $ 1   $ 5
Obligations of governments and other official
entities-Notes A and F .   .             . .                     . . .                     1,457        1,653          24            51
Obligations of banks and olher financ al inslitutions-Notes A and F  .1,237                                1,383        227            212
Net payable on investment security transactions.            . .    .                            22)         f09)         -
2,726        2 970        252            268
Cash and investments nol mmediate y available for disbursement-Note B
Due from banks                                   .   . . .                                       4             7
Ohligations ol governnmenls and fther ohicial
entities-Noles A and F                                                                       1.  .   .  .  .  .  33  95
Obl gations of banks and other financial
inst9utions-Notes A and F       .                                                            1 27          68         -
2E4          170         -
Cash collateral invested-Note A       . . .               .  .   .    .     .                      62           - 
Rece vab es on account of subscriptions and
contributions
Nornegoliab e noninlerest-bearing demand
obligalions ..   . . .  .  .                                                       .    19,952  19234    49                          97
Subscriptions and contributions-Note C
Amounts due .. .                                          . . . . .                          268  241   -
Amounts not yet due                      .   ..    .                                         119        5426           -
Restricted assets . .   .            .     . .       .. .                                    281          280         -
20,620       25,181          49            97
Rece vable from International Bank for Reconstructon
and Deve opment-Note D .  . .              .    .                               . .            960         1,030         -              -
Other assets, net                                     .              .   .     .                   96          115           1              1
Tota net assets available for deve opment activtes    .              .        .           24,728       29,466         302           366
DEVELOPMENT CREDITS OUTSTANDING
(see Summary Statement of Development Credits, Noles E and F)
Total development credits              .          .           .  .   .    . .               80,090        75.641          39            76
Less undisbursed balance                             .          .       .            .      23,932       23337           39             76
Total deveiopment credits disbursed and outstanding  .                    .              56 158       52.304           0             0
Total development resources                                   .                       $80 886      $81,770        $302          $366
Funding of Development Resources
Member subscriptions and contributions (see Statement of
Voting Power. Subscriptions and Contribulions
and Note C)
Unrestricted.          .       .   .   . .                                                 $72,496  $72 812  $218    $262
Restricted.                   .            .  . .  .    . . .                                  281  280   -
72,777       73,092         218           262
Payments on account of pending membership-Nofe C                      .       .   ..               10           -           -             -
Transfer from IBRD-Note D                 .             .  .  .  .   .    .    .                3 661        3.427          -
Cumu at ve translat on adjustment on development credits         .        .        .            3,266        3,992
Payable for cash col atera received-Note A                               .          .    . .       62           -
Accumulated surplus (see Statements of Changes n
Accumu ated Surplus)                         . . .                                            1,110        1,259         84            104
Total funding of development resources    .  .                                        $80,886      $81 770        $302          $366
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part ot these Statements.



Statements of Cash Flows            213
Statements of Changes in Accumulated
Surplus
For the year ended June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                              Special Fund
1993               1992               1993              1992
ACCUMULATED SURPLUS
Income from development credits-Notes E and G    .                $ 398              $  361                                   -
Income from investments-Note G             .                         373                350              $30               $24
Management fee charged by the Internalhonal Bank for
Reconstruction and Development-Note G  .......                    (467)              (395)                                 -
Amortization ot discount on subscription advances   .(7)                                  (6)              _
Changes from operations ....         ........ . ...                  297                310                 30                24
Eftect of exchange rate changes on accumulated surplus              (446)               406                (50)               25
Net changes  ..            ...                   ..               (149)               716               (20)               49
Balance at beginning of fisca year        .          .             1.259                543               104                 55
Balance at end of fiscal year  . ..        .          ...         $1 110              $1,259             $ 84               $104
Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1992
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                              Special Fund
1993              1992               1993               1992
Cash flows from development activities
Development credit disbursements  ......    .......          $(4,913)           $(4,743)            $(33)              $(22)
Development credit principal repayments    .........             366               324
Net cash used in development activities   ......         (4,547)            (4,419)             (33)               (22)
Cash flows from member subscriptions and
contributions ...   ....                          .            4,112              4,423               37                 49
Cash flows trom other contributions .                              303                211
Cash flows trom operating activities
Changes trom operations ...                                      297               310                30                 24
Adjustments to reconcile changes from operations to
net cash provided by operating activities
Amortization ot discount on subscription advances                7                 6               -
Net changes 'n other assets and liabilities .5. S0                                 5               -                   (1)
Net cash provided by operating activities   .....          354                321                30                 23
Ehect ot exchange rate changes on cash and
investments immediately available for disbursement .            (466)              398               (50)                25
Net (decrease) increase in cash and investments
immediately available for disbursement  ..........              (244)              934               (16)                75
Cash and investments immediately available tor
disbursement at beginning ot tiscal year  ..      .            2,970              2,036              268                193
Cash and investments immediately available for
disbursement at end of fiscal year .    .      .             $ 2,726            $ 2,970             $252               $268
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part ol these Statements.



214       IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                                   Specia Fund                            Tolal
Percentage of
Total     Undisbursed   Development       Total      Undisbursed   Developmenl  Development   development
development  development      credits     development  development       credits       credits        credits
Borrower or guarantor          credits       credits,    outstanding     credils       credits      outstanding    outstanding   outstanding
Afghanistan .$  75    $ -                                 $  75    $-                   $-            $-           $  75             0.13
Albania .87                                      76             11          -             -             -                11    0.02
Angola ... .........              255           244             11          -             -             -                11          0.02
Bangladesh                      6,256         1.523          4,733            6           -               6          4,739          8.44
Benin  ....525                                  121            404           12           -              12            416          0.74
Bhutan .22                                        4             18    -                   -             -                18   0.03
Bolivia .922    397                                            525          -             -             -              525    0.94
Botswana.                           13           -              13    -                   -             -                13   0.02
Burkina Faso                      674           275            399          -             -             -              399          0.71
Burundi.                          730           229            501          -             -             -              501          0.89
Cameroon .230                                    -             230          -             -             -              230    0.41
Cape Verde                          38           20             18          -             -             -                18         0.03
Central African Republic          441           125            316          -             -             -              316          0.56
Chad .378    102    276    -                                                              -             -              276   0.49
Chile .12    -                                                  12    -                   -             -                12   0.02
China .7,470                                  2,821          4,649           79           -              79           4,729          8.42
Colombia                            13           -              13          -             -             -                13         0.02
Com oros                            60           16             44          -             -             -               44          0.08
Congo .74    -                                                  74    -                   -             -                74   0.13
Costa Rica                           3           -               3          -             -             -                 3         0.01
Cote d'lvoire                      150           38            112          -             -             -              112          0.20
Djibouti .49                                     11             38          -             -             -                38    0.07
Dominica .11                                     -              11                        -             -                11    0.02
Dominican Republic  . ..            19           -              19          -             -             -                19         0.03
Ecuador .29                                      -              29    -                                 -                29   0.05
Egypt, Arab Republic of         1,245           332           913           -             -                            913           1.63
El Salvador                        22            -              22          -             -             -                22         0.04
Equatorial Guinea                   57           12             45          -             -             -               45          0.08
Ethiopia .1,871                                 861          1,010                        -             -            1,010          1.80
Gambia, The                       170            39            131          -             -                            131          0.23
Ghana .2,729                                  1,007          1,722           47           -              47          1,769          3.15
Grenada ............                 1                           7          -             -             -                 7         0.01
Guinea .907    267                                             640          -             -             -              640    1.14
Guinea-Bissau                     218            48            170            5           -               5             176         0.31
Guyana .211                                      68            143          -                           -              143    0.25
Haiti .462                                      141            321           14           -              14             335         0.60
Honduras .347                                   141            206          -             .             -              206          0.37
India .19,880                                 4,499        15,381            91            34            57         15,438         27.49
Indonesia .806                                   -            806           -             .             -              806    1.43
Jordan.                             74    -                     74    -                   -             -                74   0.13
Kenya .2,094                                    606          1,488           53             4            49          1,537          2.74
Korea, Republic of                  91           -              91          -             -             -               91          0.16
Kyrgyzsan .60    60                                                                                     -
Lao People's Democratic
Republic                        352          163            189          -                     -      -              189          0.34
Lesotho .219                                     86            133          -             -             -              133    0.24



Summary Statement of Development Credits                   215
IDA                               Special Fund                         Total
Percentage of
Total    Undisbursed  Development      Total    Undisbursed  Deve opment  Deve opment   development
development  development    credits    development  development    credits      credits       credits
Borrower or guarantor       credits      credits'    outstand ng   credits      credits    outstanding   outstanding    outstanding
Liberia .............   $ 107           $      3     $  104         $-           $--          $-          $   104         0.19
Madagascar .........          1,266         386           880         39           -            39            919         1.64
Malawi ........... .          1,355         358          996          18                         18         1,015         1.81
Maldives .......... .            36           12           24         -            -            -              24         0.04
Mali .............             863          236           627          15            1           14           641         1.14
Mauritania ......... .          349           95          254         -            -            -             254         0.45
Mauritius .......... .           18          -             18         -            -            -              18         0.03
Mongolia .......... .            36            8           28         -            -            -              28         0.05
Morocco  .......... .            36          -             36         -            -            -              36         0.06
Mozambique  ....... .         1,053         589          464          -            -            -             464         0.83
Myanmar .......... .           855            84          771         -            -            -             771         1.37
Nepal .............           1,362         557           805         -            -            -             805         1.43
Nicaragua  ......... .          216           33          183         -            -            -             183         0.33
Niger .............            603           101          502         -            -                          502         0.89
Nigeria  ........... .         922          826            96         -            -            -              96         0.17
Pakistan ........... .        4,072        1,487        2,585         -            -            -           2.585         4.60
Papua New Guinea . . .          110          -            110         -            -            -             110         0.20
Paraguay .......... .            39          -             39         -            -            -              39         0.07
Philippines ..........         275          107           168         -            -            -             168         0.30
Rwanda ............             703          267          436         -            -            -             436         0.78
St. Kitts and Nevis  ....         2            1            1         -            -            -               1
St. Lucia  ...........            5                         5         -            -            -               5         0.01
St. Vincent  ..........           2            *            2           6          -             6              8         0.01
Sao Tomi   and Principe .        67           31           36         -            -            -              36         0.06
Senegal ............          1,140         258           882         25                        25            907         1.61
Sierra Leone    ........        269          145          124         -            -            -             124         0.22
Solomon Islands  ... .           36           17           19         -            -            -              19         0.03
Somalia ............           540           126          414         -            -            -             414         0.74
Sri Lanka ...........         1,824         628         1,196         -            -            -           1,196         2.13
Sudan .............           1.343          181        1,162          13          -             13         1,176         2.09
Swaziland   ..........            6                         6         -            -            -               6         0.01
Syrian Arab Republic  . .        44          -             44         -            -            -              44         0.08
Tanzania   ...........        2.620          939        1,681         -            _            -           1,681         2.99
Thailand   ...........          106          -            106         -            -            -             106         0.19
Togo .............              565          120          445          26          -            26            471         0.84
Tonga .............               5            2            3                                   _-              3         0.01
Tunisia   ............           55          -             55         -            -            -              55         0.10
Turkey .............            145          -            145         -            -            -             145         0.26
Uganda ............           2,027         760         1,267         -            -                        1,267         2.26
Vanuatu ............             17            5           12         -            -            -              12         0.02
Viet Nam  ...........            57          -             57         -            -            -              57         0.10
Western Samoa    ......          47           13           35         -            -            -              35         0.06
Yemen, Republic of . ..       1,062         366           696          14                        14           710         1.26
Zaire .............           1,403          174        1,229         -                         -           1,229         2.19
Zambia  ............          1,079          350          729           7          -              7           736         1.31
Zimbabwe  ..........            456          278          178         -            -            -             178         0.32
Subtotal members . . .    79,555       23,874       55,681         470           39          431        56,112        99.91
(continued)



216    IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Summary Statement of
Development Credits  (continued)
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars
IDA                                   Special Fund                             Tota
Percentage ol
Total     Undisbursed   Development        Total      Undisbursed   Development  Development   development
development  development       credits     developmenl  deve opment       credits        credits         credits
Borrower or guaranlor           credits       credits2    oulstanding      credits       cred ts      outstanding    outstanding    outstanding
West Atrican
Development Bank2           $    61       $    44       $     17        $-             $---          $-           $     17           0.03
Caribbean Development
Bank3 . .34                                     14            20           -               -                            20           0.04
Other4 . .9                                       -                9            __                                           9    0.02
Toa--June 30, 19935            $79,659       $23,932       $55.727         $470           $ 39          $431         $56,158          100.00
Total-June 30, 19925           $75,235       $23,337       $51,898         $482           $76           $406         $52,304
indicates amounts ess than $05 million or 0.005 percent.
NOTES
1. Of the undisbursed balance at June 30, 1993 IDA has entered nto irrevocab e commitments to disburse $277 mill on ($273 mill on--June 30, 1992).
2. These development cred ts are for the benefit of Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d lvoire Niger, Senegal, and Togo.
3. These development credits are for the benelit of Grenada and territories of the United Kingdom (Assoc ated States and Dependencies) in the Caribbean reg an
4. Represents deve opment credits made at a time when the authorit es on Taiwan represented Ch na in IDA (prior to May 15, 1980)
5. In the Statements of Development Resources at June 30 1993, total development credits ol $80,090 m Ilion ($75,641 millio-,une 30. 1992) and total
deve opment credits disbursed and outstanding of $56,158 m I ion t$52,304 million-Jaune 30 1992) include development credits oulstanding ol $431 mi lion
($406 ml nior-une 30, 1992) which were originated under the Spec al Fund  since such amounts are repayable to IDA (see Notes to Financia
Statements-Note E)
Maturity Structure of Development Credits Disbursed and Outstanding
Period                                                                             DA                      Special Fund                 Total
July 1 1993 through June 30, 1994   .............                               $   465                        $  2                   $   467
Ju y 1,1994 through June 30, 1995  ..............                                   504                            5                       509
July 1 1995 through June 30, 1996  ..............                                   583                            5                       588
July 1, 1996 through June 30, 1997  .............                                   648                            5                       653
July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1998  ..............                                   734                           5                       739
July 1, 1998 through June 30, 2003  ...............                               6,300                           23                     6,323
July 1, 2003 through June 30. 2008  ..............                                8,854                           62                     8.916
July 1, 2008 through June 30. 2013  ...............                              10,221                           68                    10.289
July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2018  . ........... .. .                            9,446                           68                     9.51 4
July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2023  ......... . .... .                            8,176                           67                     8.243
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2028  ..... . . ......                              6,048                           64                     6.112
July 1, 2028 through June 30, 2033  ..............                                 3.120                          53                     3,173
July 1, 2033 through June 30, 2034  .............                                   628                            4                       632
Totair.                                                                      $55,727                        $431                   $56,158
T a l         ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   ..   ..   .   ..    .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .   .  5 7 7$ 3             5  , 5
NOTE
1. In the Statements of Development Resources at June 30, 1993, development credits disbursed and outstanding ot $56,158 milon  ($52,304
mi ion-June 30, 1992) inc ude development credils outstanding of $431 mill on ($406 mi lion-fune 30, 1992) which were criginated under the Spec al
Fund, since such amounts are repayable to IDA (see Notes to Financial Statements-Note E)
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part ot these Statements.



Voting  Power, and  Subscriptions and  Contributions                     217
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars except vote data
IDA
NuLmber         Percentage        Subscriptions           Specia
of               of                 and                 Fund
Member'                                                                    votes             Iota            contributions        contr Dot OflO
Part I Members
Auslra ia                                                                121,300           1 37             $ 1,253 2              5-
AusIria                                                                   56,228           0 63                 571 0 
BeIg urn                                                                103,228            t 16               1 150 3                50
Canada                                                                  276,429            3 12               3,267 4               160
Denmrark.                                                                82743             0 93                 877 4                34
Firland                                                                  57 365            0 65                486 7 
France                                                                  356.294            4 02               4,722.1               149
Gefrmany                                                                609,771            6688               8,300 9 
Iceland .19,793                                                                            0 22                 11 7
Irland .24,564                                                                             0 28                  82 3 
Ita y                                                                   259,450            2 93               2 953 7                90
Japan      .            .900 671                                                          10 16              15,746 7 
Kujwait                                                                  69.834            0 79                648 8 
Luxembourg .20 896                                                                         0 24                  36 7 
Nelterlands     ..167,170                                                                  2 11               2,678 9 
New Zealand                                                              24.742            0 28                  74 9 
Norway. .                                                                83,144            0 94                 827 1                40
Russia     .28,202                                                                         0 32                 139 7 
Sooth Africa.           .25 137                                                            0.28                  68 6 
Sweden    .                                                             177,971            2 01               1,839.5                74
Switzerland    .                                                         67,909            0 77                 631 2 
Un ted Arab Emirates                                                       1,367           0 02                   5 6 
United Kingoom      .                                                   469,316            5 30               5 537 5 
United States .                                    ...1,422,274                           16 05              18,081 5 
Subtotal Parr I Members2                                         5 445 796           61 45              69,993 2               596
Part 11 Members
Afg6anistar       .13.557                                                                  0 15                   1.3 
Albania            .19.711                                                                 0 22                   0.3 
Aloeria   .                                                               18,481           0 21                   5 1 
Angola .                                  .  ....45,662                                    0 52                   7 9 
Argent noa                                                                83,915           0.95                  57 4 
Bangladess             .                                                 51 085            0.58                   7 1 
Bel on                                                                     1.788           0 02                   0.2 
Benin.                                                                     5 297           0 06                   0 6                -
Bhutan .                                                      .            7,813           0 09                   0 1 
Bolnva .                                                                 24,729            0 28                   1 4 
Botswana                                                                  19,222           0.22                   0 2 
Brazil                                                                  145 619            1 64                  77 4 
Borkina Faso..                                                            14 465           0 16                   07 
Burundi .                                                                17 694            0 20                   10 
Carnbod a.  .        . .                                                   7.826           0 09                   1 3 
Carnernon                                                                 13,854           0 16                   13 
Cape Verde          .                                                       516            0 01                   0 1 
Contra African Republ c .        .10,920                                                   0 12                   0 7 
Chad      .                                                               10I990           0.12                   0 7 
Chile                                                                    31 .782           0.36                   4 5 
China     .. .176,657                                                                      1 99                  39.5 
Colombia                                                      .          34,350            0 39                  22 5 
Comnoros                                                      .           13,141           0 15                   0 1 
Conga                                                                      6,685           0.08                   0 6 
Costa Rica.  .       .  .                                                  7 844           0.09                   0 3 
Cdte dIlvoire    .                                                        13 064           0 15                   1 3 
Croatia   .           ..13,366                                                             0 15                   5.5 
Cyprus ..                             .                                  22,924            0 26                   ry                 -
(con tinued)



coo~~~~~~    ~~~  CD  ~ ~  ~     ~      aa   aon~~~~~~cc                  D~~~~~c: ~~~~         a                                    -0   C
:1 37 0- -   c      O -                                     ==                  -co    C, D _ $ ()  -.                              Q
:        ~   ::-::::-co   -                           .             Ca       _     Ba~  g        a                                             Q-
E                                                                                              - -   oCD .           O a                                     <I)
Z-                 .                                                                                                          CD  . a-  .  --  R .      _ P >   m
ET:                                                      ,                                                              CZi ::-          :5 ::: ::::: :: a::  (Do
9     a    ...    .                                                         a    C                          -      Q
-C~~~    0          C
.. ..      .. .       .      . .   ..               ...                 .T  .                                                                                          0 _/
.         .   .   .  .  .            .                 .  .  .       .
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                 .    .    .   .     .   .    .Q                                         -  ~   O
. . . . .D.                        .             .                                 . 
.   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .      
.       .   .   .   . .   .                                                                                 .     .   .   .   .         OCnD
...  ...    ..                                 ..             .           .. .                                           
CD
-zj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
z: all~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o                   COC)
- - - - -   - -                                                     .                            -         a-(-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -  -O -o - -O -   - - - - -  - - - - -  -o r- cno- -   o-  ooo  oooooocooooo-   
7CD
0
_ _CD   n oa-
-' - - 0   00 '   0 ' a



CNa
N                  U  x  -_    l l   l   l l  l   l l   l   l l  l  l l   l   l lca    11 1 1   11 1   I  Ii   II  ii   h l l l l  liii   l  
O                               -O  -                                                                                                       0
n
C
o8
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0C
cr- o w-o occ--  o cno,- oow-o  o o-co  CoCo-  0oo o    o00Cm- 0 o            o0 0eo
Co                                          .              .   .,              ,      ,--,                                .
r~~~~~~~~OD3e-2-                          
~~~~~~~~EEzzzzoCL Lt -m=SwwmSwwwSSXXum3z-      'r>   



220    IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Statement of Voting Power, and Subscriptions
and Contributions (continued)
June 30, 1993
Expressed in millions of US dollars except vote data
IDA
Number          Percentage         Subscriptions            Special
ol                of                 and                   Fund
Member                                                                         voles             tola             contributions         contributions
Subtotal Part II Members2 .                                   .           3,416,639            38.55             S 2,918.1               $ -
Tota -aune 30 19932                                                       8,862.437           10000             $72,911.3                $596
Tota-u-une 30, 19924 .8,258.739                                                               100 00             $72,747.4               $607
Indicates amounts less than S0.05 mi lion
NCTES
1. See Notes to Financial Statements-Note C for an explanation of the two categories of membership.
2 Tota may differ from the sum of individual figures shown because of rounding
3 On January 1, 1993 the Czech Republic and the Slovak Repub ic became members of IDA succeed ng the d ssolved Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
(CSFR) See also Notes to Financial Statements-Nole C.
4. In the Statements ot Development Resources at June 30, 1993, member subscriptions and contribut ons of $72,777 million ($73 092 mi lion-June 30,
1992) does not include $512 million (nil-June 30 1992) of Switzer and's subscr ption and contributions and includes Special Fund contribut ons of $378
mil ion ($345 mil ion-June 30, 1992).
$512 mill on (nil-June 30, 1992) of Switzerland's subscription and contr butions have not been included since this represents the d flerence between the
total cofinancing grants of $580 mil ion provided by Switzerland direct y to IDA borrowers as cofinanc ng grants between the lounth and the nine
replenishments of IDA resources, and the July 1992 contribution by Switzer and of $68 million represent ng the present value uf fulure reflows on these
grants it they had been made through IDA on IDA's repayment terms.
Special Fund contributions of $378 million (S345 million-June 30. 1992) have been included, since the deve opment credits that were funded using these
resources are repayable to IDA (see Notes to Financial Statements-Note C).
The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of these Statements.



Notes to Financial Statements                  221
Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting                                           the Executive Directors IDA had valued fhese subscr ptions and contr bu-
and  Related  Policies                                                      tions on the bas s of the SDR at the current market va ue of the SDR
IDA's financ al statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting   The subscriptions and contribut ons provided under the fourth replenish-
principles generally accepted in the Un ted States and with  nternational   ment and thereafter are expressed in members currencies or SDRs and are
Account ng Standards                                                        payable in members' currencies Beginning July 1 1986, subscriptions and
contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated
at market rales of exchange on the dates they were made ava lable. Pr or to
Organization and  Operations                                                that date, subscript ons and contributions which had been d sbursed or
IDA: IDA was established on September 24, 1960 to promote economic          converted into other currencies were translated at market rates of exchange
development increase product vity, and ra se the standard of iving of ts    on dates of disbursement or convers on. Subscr ptions and contributions
developing country members                                                  not yet ava able for disbursements are translated at markel rales of
exchange at the end of the accounting period
Special Fund: On October 26 1982, IDA estab ished the Special Fund
constituted by funds to be contributed by members of IDA and adm nislered   Special Fund: Beginning April 1 1989, subscriptions and contribulions
by IDA, to supplement the regu ar resources available for ending by IDA     received but not yet disbursed as well as subscr ptions and contributions
Tne arrangements governing the Special Fund may be amerded or               d sbursed or converted into other currencies are translated al market rates
term nated by IDA's Execut ve Directors subject to the agreemenl of a        of exchange on the dates they were made ava lable for disbursement in cash
qualified majority ol the contr butors to the Specia Fund The resources of  to the Specia Fund  Prior to that date. subscriptions and contr butions
the Specia Fund are kept separate from the resources of IDA                 which had been d sbursed or converted nlo other currencies were translated
at market rales of exchange on dates of d sbursement or conversion
Translation  of Currencies                                                   Subscriptions and contributions receivable are transiated at market rates of
exchange at the end of the accountng period.
IDA's f nancial statements are expressed n terms of US dollars solely for the
purpose of summar zing IDA's financia position and the results ol its
operations tor the convenience of its members and other interested parties
IDA: IDA iS an international organization which conducts ts operalions in   Development Credits
the currenc es of all of its members Assets and liabil t es are translated at  Ai deve opment cresito are made to member governments or to the
market rates ol exchange at the end of the accounling period Subscriptions  government of a territory of a member (except [or development credits which
and contributions are translated in the manner descr bed below  Income and   have been made to regional development banks for the benefit ol members
expenses are translated at the market rale of exchange at the dates on which  or terr tories of members of IDAt. It is the pol cy ol IDA to pace in
they are recognized or at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect  nonaccrual status all development cred ts made to a member government or
dur ng each month Translation adiustments relaling to the revaluat on of    to the government of a territory of a member if prircipal or charges with
developmenl credits denominated in Special Draw ng Rights fSDRsj are        respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six
charged or credited to Cumu ative Translalion Adjustment on Development     months, unless IDA manvagement determines that te overdue amount will
Credits  Other transiatfin adjustments are charged or credited to the       be collected  n the mned ate suture In add ton, if loans by IBRD to a
Accumu ated Surplus                                                         member government are paced  n nonaccrual status, all development
Special Fund: Assets ol the Special Fund are translated at market rates     credits to that member government will a so be placed in nonaccrual status
of exchange at the end of the per od  Conlributions are translated in the   by IDA  On the date a members deveopment credts are placed in
manner described below  Income s trans ated at marvet rates of exchange     nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on deve opment credits
on dates of recogqntion of income Translation adjustments are charged or    outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the
credited to the Accumulated Surplus                                         income of the current period Charges on nonaccruing development credits
are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been
Valuation  of Subscriptions and  Contributions                              received by IDA On the date a       member pays in full al overdue amounts, the
memberfs credots emerge from nonaccrual statLs, Its eligibility for new
IDA: The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third         credits is restored, and al overdue charges (including those trom  prior
replen shment are expressed in terms of "US dollars of the weight and       years) are recognized as income n the current period
fineness in effect on January 1  1960" (1960 dollars) Following the         IDA has not suffered any losses from deveopment credit receivables and
abolition of gold as a common denom nator of the monetary system and the     has estabisned no prov sion for credit losses because no looses ore
repeal of the prov s on of the US law def ning the par value of the US dollar  ant cepated
in terms ol gold, the pre-existing bass tor translating 1960 dollars into
current dollars or any other currency disappeared The Executive Directors    IDA: The repayment obligat ons ol IDA's development credits funded from
of IDA have dec ded, with effect on that date and until such t me as the    resources through the f th rep enishment are expressed in the development
relevant provis ons of the Art cles of Agreemenl are amended, that the words  credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars In June 1987 the Execut ve
"US dollars of the we ght and f neness in effect on January 1 19606    n    Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1 20635
Aricle II, Section 2(b) of the Articles ol Agreement of IDA are interpreted to  per 1960 dol ar on a permanent basis Development credits lunded from
mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR       resources prov ded  under the sixth replenishment and thereafter are
was valued in terms of US do lars immed ate y before the introduction of the  denominated  in SDRs, the principal amounts disbursed  under such
basket method of valu ng the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal    development credils are to be repaid  in currency amounts currenty
to $1 20635 tor one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have a so decided to apply      equ valent to the SDRs d sbursed
the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dol ars in the
relevant resolulions ot the Board of Governors                              Special  Fund: Special Fund  development credits are denom nated m
SDRs The principal amounls disbursed under such development credits are
The subscrpt ons and contributions provided through the third replenish-    to be repaid  in currency amounts currently equiva ent to the SDRs
ment are expressed on the bas s of the 1974 SDR Prior to the dec sion of    d sbursed
(continued)



222    IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
Special Fund development credits are made on the same terms as regu ar   in order to recover the currency convened. At June 30, 1993, IDA had gross
IDA development credits except that the proceeds ol Special Fund         receivables trom covered forward agreements of $119 mil ion and gross
development credits may be used only to finance expenditures for goods or  payables Irom covered fonward agreements of $125 million. At June 30
services from (a) Part It members ot IDA: (b) Pad I members contributing  1992, IDA had no gross rece vables or gross payables trom covered forward
to the Specia Fund; and (c) Pan I members contributing to the regular    agreements At June 30. 1993 and June 30, 1992, IDA had no exposure to
resources ol IDA through IDA's FY84 Account who have notified IDA that   credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties
such contributions are to be treated in the same manner as contributions to
the Special Fund for purposes of any future adjustment ol the voting rights  Options are contracts that a low the holder of the option to purchase or sell
ol the members of IDA                                                    a tinancial nstrument at a specited price and within a specitied period of
time trom the sel er or to the purchaser ot the option. As a seller of options,
Investments                                                              IDA receives a premium  at the outset and then bears the risk of an
untavorab e change in the pr ce of the financial instrument underlying the
IDA carr es its investment securities at market value. Both realized and  option. The total contract value ot options sold at June 30, 1993 was $29
unrealized gains and losses are included in income trom  nvestments.     mil ion (ni -June 30, 1992).
Short sales ae sales ot securit es not he.d in IDA s portfolio at the t me of
Fair Value of Financial Instruments                                      the sale IDA must purchase the security at a later date and bears the r sk
DA adopted a new accounting standard in fiscal year 1993 that requires  that the market value ot the security wil move adversely between the time
disc osure ot the estimated  fair va ue  of financial instruments. Such fair  of the sa e and the time the security must be del vered. The total contract
values are not recorded in tMe accounts of IDA, but are disclosed in Note F  amount of shor sales at June 30, 1993 was $7 mIlton (ol---June 30.
as additional informalion                                                1992). This amount is included  n 'net payab e on investment security
transactions.
Reclassifications
Certain rec assilications of the pr or year s intormation have been made to  Note B-Cash  and  Investments Not Immediately
conform to the current year's presentation                               Available for Disbursement
Note A-Investments and Cash  Collateral                                  Under the Antic es of Agreement and the arrangements govern ng replen-
Invested                                                                 ishments, IDA must take appropriate steps to ensure that, over a reasonable
period ot time, the resources provided by donors for ending by IDA are
A summary of the currency composition of the Investments and Cash        used on an approximatey pro rata basis Donors sometimes contribute
Collateral Invested at June 30, 1993 and June 30 1992 is as fol ows:     resources substantial y ahead of their pro rata share. Unless otherwise
agreed IDA does not disburse these funds ahead of donors' pro rata shares
In millions of US-do lar equivalent                                      Cash and Investments Not Immediately Available for Disbursement repre-
sent the d fference between the amount contributed and the amount ava iable
IDA          Specia Fund         for disbursements on a pro rata basis.
Currency                          1993      1992     1993    1992
Bepgian francs . ..       .      $  60   $  52    $ 12    $  6           Note C-Member Subscriptions and
Canadian do lars . .....             44       135      69       57       Contributions
Danish kroner . ........             -         78       9        6
Deutsche mark  . ......   1.169              956               ..-        Restricted Assets and Subscriptions: For the purposes ot its
French francs   ......              200       290      45       76       tinancial resources the membership of IDA is divided into two categories:
Japanese yen   .......              296        62      -                 I- 1) Part I members, which make payments ol subscriptions and contribu-
Italian lire   . . . ....            82      278       80       79       tions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be Ireely used or
Nether ands gui ders    .  .        t54       222      -        -        exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) most Pant II members, which
Pounds sterling .1. t56                      809       -        -        make payments of 10 percent ot their initial subscriptions in treely
Swedish kronor                       73       203      36       39       convent Ole currencies, and the rema ning 90 percent of their initia
United States dollars ..782                   106      .       -         subscriptions and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their
Other currencies  .     .                       8      -       -         own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Cerain Part II members
Total .........    $3,016    $3,199    $251    $           provide a portion ot their subscriptons and contributions n the same
Total  . ..._. .   .  .  .  $3.016                         -         manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA's Anicles of Agreement and
subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IDA is party to financial  11 member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA
instruments with off-balance-sheet risk, including futures, covered torward  and located outside the territories of the member except by agreement
contracts, options and shon sales. Futures are contracts for delayed     between the member and IDA.
delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the se ler agrees
to make de ivery at a specitied future date of a specified instrument, at a  Maintenance of value: Artic e IV, Section 2(a) and (b) ot IDA's Articles
specified price or yield. At June 30. 1993 the total contract value of futures  of Agreement provides for maintenance-of-value payments on account of the
contracts was $211 m Ilion ($53 million-June 30, 1992), and IDA's        local currency port on of the initial subscription whenever the par value of
exposure to credit oss on futures contracts due to potentia nonperformance  the member's currency or its toreign excharge value has, in the opimon of
of counterpasies was $7 mill on ($4 million  June 30. 1992)               DA, depreciated or apprecated to a signiticant extent w'thin the members'
tertlories so long as and to the extent that such currency sha I not have
Covered forwards are agreements in which cash in one currency is         been initiatly d'sbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member.
convened into a diferent currency and, simultaneously, a fonward exchange  The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been
agreement is executed provid ng for a future exchange of the two currencies  extended to cover additiona subscriptions and contributions of IDA through



Notes to Financial Statements    223
the third repienishment, bul are not applicable to those of the fourth and   such division the Czech Repubi c was al ocated a $14 millon subscription
subsequent replenishments                                                   and conlribut on and 32,378 votes, while the Slovak Republic was allocated
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987, that settlements ot       a $7 mill on subscription and contribution and 20,893 votes
maintenance-vf-value obligations which would resu t from the resolution ot  On May 29 1992, Sw tzerland became a member of IDA Before that date
the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until    Switzerland had contributed to IDA an equiva ent of $51 mill on. As agreed
the Execut ve Directors dec de to resume such seot ements.                  between the Swiss Confederation and IDA, these grant contributions were
convered to an IDA subscription  Further, during the commitment per ods
Tenth Replenishment: On March 31, 1993 the Board ot GoverrIDA'              hetween  the fourh and  the  nih  replenishments of IDA  resources.
IDA adopted a resolution authorizing the tenth replenishment of IDAs        Switzerland had cotinanced proects by making ava lable to IDA borrowers
resources. The tenth replenishment provides IDA wih resources to fund       untied grants in the aggregate amount ot Swiss francs 1,055 million
credits committed during the penod July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1996 The        (hisforica US dollar amount of $580 mitlion) On July 7. 1992. as agreed
amount of the replenishment, including supp ementary contributions pro-      between the Sw so Confederation and IDA, these grant contributons were
vided by certain members, is equivalent to SDR 13,000 mill on (at the       conveted to an IDA  subscription  and  contribution when Switzer and
exchange rates determined pursuant to a formula agreed by IDA and           conrributed a fnuher $68 miltion, represent ng the present value ot future
contributing donors). The tenth rep enishment w 11 become effective when    reflows ot the cofinancing granrs if they had been made through IDA on
IDA has received commitments for subscriptions and contributions of at      IDA s repayment terms. At June 30, 1993. $512 million (nil-,June 30,
least SDR 10,076 mitlion.                                                    1992), represent ng the difference between the tota cofinancing grants of
Subscriptions and Contributions Not Yet Due: At June 30. 1993,              $580 mil ion and the present value of future reflows of $68 million, have not
unrestricted subscriptions and contributions not yet due will become due as  been included in the memnber subscriplions and contributions in the
follows                                                                     Statements of Development Resources.
Note D-Transfers from the International Bank
In mi lions                                                                 for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Period                                                 June 30 1993
July 1,1993 through June 30. 1994  .                        $92              IDA: The IBRD's Board of Governors approved transfers to IDA totaing
July 1, 1994 through June 30. 1995  .                          3            $3,508 million through June 30, 1992 Of the tota amount, $80 million has
Thereaher . . .  .               .     . .                    24             been disbursed for grants for agricultural research, the control of onchocer-
-               ciasis, and other developmental activitfes. On September 24  1992, the
Total   .                                                $ 19             IBRD s Board of Governors approved a transfer of $300 million to IDA This
has been made as ol June 30, 1993 On September 24, 1992, the IBRD's
Contributions to Special Fund: Member contributions to the Special          Board of Governors also authorized a transler of an amount equivalent of
Fund  eota ing $596 mi lion at June 30, 1993  ($607 mi I on-zune 30,        $375 milion by way of a grant to IDA, when the tenth replenishment
1992) are ref ected as Member Subscriptions and Contributions  n the        becomes effectve This amount s not yet reflected as a receivable
Statements of Deve opment Resources At June 30 1993 the Special Fund
total was reflected net of $378 million ($345 mill on-June 30, 1992),
which represents development credit disbursements that are repayable to      Note E-Development Credits
and included in Member Subscrnptions and Contributions ot iDA
Special Fund development credits disbursed and outstanding of $431
Membership: On February 25  1993, the IBRDs Executve Directors              miihonatJune30,1993($406rmi ion-June30,l1992)areincluded  nthe
decided that the Soc alist Federa Repubic ot Yugoslav a (SFRY) has ceased   Statements of Development Resources of IDA since principal repayments on
to be a member of the IBRD and that the Republic of Bosna and               these development credits will become part of the general resources of IDA,
Herzegovina the Republic of Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republ c of        unless otherw se provided in a decision of IDA's Executive Directors to
Macedonia, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Federal Repub ic of            terminate adm nistration of the Special Fund by IDA
Yugos avia (Serbia and Montenegro) are authorized to succeed to the
membership of the SFRY in the IBRD when cerain requirements are met. In     At June 30, 1993, pr ncipal insta Iments of $2 mil ion and charges of $2
accordance with the Aricies of Agreement of the Association, on February     mi lion payable to IDA on development credits were overdue by more than
25, 1993, SFRY ceased to be a member of IDA due to the cessation ot its      three months At June 30, 1993, the aggregate principal amounts outstand-
membership in IBRD  The Republ cs of Croatia and Slovenia have since        ing on al development credits to any borrower other than those referred to
become members of IDA  As a result of the foregoing, the Republic of         in the following paragraph with any development credi overdue by more
Croata was allocated a $5 mill on subscription and contribut on and 13.366  than three months was $1 406 mil ion
votes, and the Republic of Slovenia was allocated a $3 million subscription  At June 30. 1993, the development credits made to or guaranteed by cela.n
and contribution and 7,546 votes. As of June 30. 1993 the subscript on and   member countries wiho an aggregate principal baiance outstanding ot
contribut ons allocated to the other successor Republ cs (the Republ c of   $1 046 m  lion ($1,059 millIon-u une 30 1992). of which $18 miu ion ($10
Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Former Yugoslav Republ c of Macedon a. and      millioni-une 30  1992) was overdue, were in nonaccrua status As of
the Federa Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)) are included     such date, overdue charges in respect of these development credits totaled
under  Payments on Account of Pending Membership                            $21 million ($14 millionr-June 30 1992) If these deveiopment cred Is had
On January 1, 1993, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic became       not been in nonaccrual status, ncome from development credits tor the
members of IDA succeeding the d ssolved Czech and S ovak Federal            fiscal year ended June 30, 1993 would have been higher by $7 mil ion ($10
Republic (CSFR) As agreed between the succeeding republics, a I rights      mil ion-Wune 30, 1992) which is net of charges received irom  such
and obligations aftached to the membership status of the CSFR in the Bank   members during the year A summary of member countries with credits or
will be divided between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic As of    guarantees in nonaccrual status lollows:
January 1, 1993, CSFR's subscript on and contribution to the Associat on
totalled $21 million, and the CSFR had 52,771 votes in IDA. As a result of                                                           (continued)



224    IDA and Special Fund Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements (continued)
Note F-Disclosures about Fair Value of
In mi I ons of US dol ars                                                     Financial Instruments
June 30, 1993                       Investments: Since IDA carries its investments at market vaue, the
carrying amount represents Ihe tair value ot the porttolio. These tair values
Princ pa                           are based on quoted market prices where availab e. 11 quoted markel prices
Principa    and charges      Nonaccrual          are not available, fair values are based on quoted  market prices ol
Borrower                   outstand ng     overdue           since            comparabie instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are
Afghanistan.        .  .  .   $   75         $ 1       June 1992              short term approximarte their carry value
Congo .            .        .     74           4       September 1991         Credits: All of IDA's cred ts are made to or guaranteed by countries that
Haiti           .335                            7      April 1992             are members of IDA. These credits are made to provide concessional
Liberia            .            104             8      April 1988             assistance to ow-income developing countries. While the principal amount
Somalia  .           .          414           13       July 1991              is fu ty repayable, no nterest is charged to the borrower. A serv ce fee of
Syrian Arab Repub ic              44            6      Apri 1988              0.75 percent of the disbursed and outstand ng balance is charged, however,
Tota   .$1,046                            $39                              to cover the costs ot admin stering the credits. Due to the concessional
______         -                                nature of these credits it is not meaningful to calculate a fair value tor
outstanding credils
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993. no deve opment credits came       Note G-Income and  Expenses
out of nonaccrua  status. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1992, the
increase in ncome from development credits due to development credits to      IDA: IDA pays a management fee lo the IBRD representing its share of the
countries coming out of nonaccrual status was $6 million                      administrative expenses incurred by the IBRD
Special Fund: The service and commitment charges payable by
borrowers under Special Fund development credits are pa d directly to IDA
to compensate t for services as administrator of the Special Fund Income
from investments oa the Specia Fuond becomes pant of the resources oa the
Special Fund



225
Report of Independent Accountants
Price Waterhouse     The Hague               New York
(International Firm)    Beijing             Tokyo
Hong Kong               Washington
London
Price fhiterhouse                                                                         to
July 26. 1993
President and Board of Governors
International Development Association and the
Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association
In our opinion, the financial statements appearing on pages 2'11 through 224 of this Report present fairly, in
all material respects. in terms of United States dollars. the financial position of the International Development
Association and the Special Fund Administered by the International Development Association at June 30.
1993 and 1992. and the changes in their accumulated surplus and grants and their cash flows for the years then
ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and with International
Accounting Standards. These financial statements are the responsibility of management; our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our auidits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including International Auditing
Guidelines, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis.
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management. and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
(                          W~~~~~~~~~~~~)






227
IBRD/IDA Appendices
1    Governors and Alternates of the World Bank  228
2    Executive Directors and Alternates of the World Bank and Their Voting Power  232
3    Officers and Department Directors of the World Bank  234
4    Offices of the World Bank  237
5    Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal 1993  243



228   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Governors and Alternates                                                                                           Appendix 1
of the World Bank
June 30, 1993
Member                                                            Governor                                      Alternate
Afghanistan .......................   Hamidullah Rahimi .Mohammad Ehsan
Albania .........................    Genc Rui .Adrian Xhyheri
Algeria .........................   Ahmed Benbitour .Kacim Brachemi
Angola .........................    Jose Pedro de Morais .Sebastiao Bastos Lavrador
Antigua and Barbuda8a    .          . . . .    Molwyn Joseph ....................   Ludo ph Brown
Argentina  ........................   Domingo Felipe Cavailo .Roque Benjamin Fernandez
Armenia' .........................   Hrant A. Bagratian .Armen Yeghiazarian
Australia .........................   John  Dawkins .Gordon Bilney
Austria  .........................   Ferdinand Lacina .Hans Dietmar Schweisgul
Azerbaijan8a.                                   Djavanshir Abdu layev ....                      Vagit Ahmedov
Bahamas, Thel .                                 Hubert A. tngraham ...n Luher E. Smitn
Bahrain' .........................   Ibrahim Abdul Karim.                                       Isa Abdulla Borshaid
Bangladesh .......................   M. Saifur Rahman .Muhammad Lultullahi Majid
Barbados' .................8......   L. Erskine Sandford  .George Reid
Belarus8  ........................              Nikolai Fil ppovich Rumas  ............         Nikolai K. Lisai
Belgium               ..             ... .   Phi ippe Maystadt . ..... ... ......               A tons Verplaelse
Belize .                 ...... .....           Said W. Musa .....................   Joseph D. Waight
Benin . ........................   Robert Tagnon .Rigobert Lad kpo
Bhutan    ........................   Lyonoo Dawa Tsering ...............   Karma Dorjee
Bolivia                      ... ...            Samuel Doria Medina .........  . ...   Armando Mendez Morales
Bolswana                           ......   Festus G. Mogae .G.J......                      .     ...Stoneham
Brazil .........................                Fernando Henrique Cardoso .Paulo Cesar Ximenes Aives Ferre ra
Bulgariaa  .r..               .        .  .   .    Sloyan Alexandrov   ............... .   Emi M. Harsev
Burkina Faso ........   Roch Marc Christian Kabore ...........                                  Jacques Sawadogo
Burundi .........                          .   Gerard Niyibigira ...................   Sylvie Kinigi
Cambodia ........................   Roger Lawrence .(vacant)
Cameroon    ...                 . . .. .   Augustin Frederic Kodock  ............   Esther Dang Be ib
Canada                                          Donald Mazankowski ..                           Marcel Masse
Cape Verde ...............            .....   Jose Tomas Veiga ..................   Ant6nio Hilario Da Cruz
Central African Republic ..............   Thierry Bingaba .......   Gregoire Zowaye
Chad .........................                  Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh .Hassan Adoum Bakhit
Chi e  .... ...... ....   Alejandro Foxley ...........                                    ..   Jose Pablo Arellano
China . .......              .......    L u Zhongli ........                     ..............   J n Renqing
Colombia  .......................   Rudolt Hommes .Armando Montenegro
Comoros ........................   Assoumany Abdou Salam .Chabani Abdallan Halita
Congo  .Clem..                   .... Clem           ent Mouamb  a .........    .......         Bernard Tchibambelela
Costa Rica  .         ...              . ..... Rodolto Mndez Matae.n       . . ......    Jorge Guardia Cu rds
Cote d'lvoire ...............  ......   Kablan D. Duncan.                                       N'Goo Couliba y
Croatia ...        ......         . ......   Zoran Jas c ............                 ...       Josip Kulisic
Cyprus .........................    Pnaedros Economides  ....  .   ..   ..                      Michael Erotokritos
Czech Republic ....................   Ivan Kocarnik ............                       . ..   Jan Vil
Denmark ..h....                                 Helle Degn .........    .                ...  Ole Loensmann Poulsen
Diibouti ..............  ....  ...   Moussa Bouraleh Roblen.                                     brahim  Kassim Chehem
Dominica  ....................   ...    Mary Eugenia Chares  ..............   Gilbert Williams
Dominican Republic .................   Luis F. Toral Cordova .Manuel E. Gomez Pieterz
Ecuador .........................   Mario Ribadereira .Rodrigo Correa Artela
Egypt ........................                  Kamal E -Ganzoury   .........             ..   Maurice Makram-Allah
El Salvador ........   Mirna Lievano de Marques .Jose Roberto Orellana Milla
Equalorial Guinea  ....... .    .........   Anatolio Ndong Mba .Manuel-Enrique King Somo
Estonia' ......          ......      .. .    Madis Uurike  ...................    Raivo Maine
Ethiopia .........................   Alemayehu Daba .                             ....          Abdulmejid Hussein
Fiji .........................                  Pau F. Manueli .Rigamoto Taito
Finland .........................   liro Viinanen .Toimi Kankaanniemi



Appendix 1   229
Member                                                             Governor                                        Alternate
France   ........... . .                . .    Jacques de Laros ere . . ... .        .. . .    Jean-Claude Trichet
Gabon  ..................  ...   .               Emmanue Ondo-Methogo  .........               .  Richard Onouviet
Gambia, The                          . .         Bakary B. Dabo.                           ...   AIeu M  N'gum
Georgia'  .. ....                                Roman Gotsinrdze   ....               ...        Demur DvalishvPi
Germany                      .           ...  ......  Carl-Dieter Spranger    . ......            Horst Koehler
Ghana                                 .          Kwesi Bolchwey  ......  .             .   ....   Kwesi Bekoe Amissah-Arthur
Greece  .....................    Steplanos Manos  ..                          .  ......    George Vlachos
Grenada                                          Nicno as Bralhwaile   ....  .            .       Nolan K. Murray
Guatemala ...  ..  . . ....            .....   R chard A ikenhead Castilo    . . .                t..   .   Juan Luis Mirbn Aguilar
Guinea ..........                  .....  .      Soriba Kaba   . .       .     .......    Kerfalla Yansane
Guinea-Bissau ....                               Filinto Barros.                                  Rui Dia de Sousa
Guyana ..                                        Asgar Ally ... .    . .  . ... ..... Michael Sheer Chan
Haii .. .....       ..... ...            ..      Marie Micele Rey.                                Renaud Bernardin
Honduras                                         Rene Ardon Maute .Roberto Ga.vez Barnes
Hungary   ..    ...    .... ...  ....  .. Ivan Sa bo.                                             Imre Taralas
Iceland                           .      .       Sighvatur Biorgvisson    ....  .             ...   Fndrik Sophusson
India  . .           .    .. ..  .....   Manmohan Singh  .. . .. ....... ...   Montek Singh Ahluwalia
Indonesia .             .... ..........  Mar'ie Muhammad ..........                               Boediono
Iran, Islamic Rep. of  . .Mohsen Noorbakhsh ....                                                  Mehdi Navab
Iraq   ............  ..........                  Tarik T.M  Al Tukmachi   .        .Hashim  Ali Obaid
Ireland  ... .      ...................    Bertie Ahern             .        .Sean P. Cromien
Israel .    ... ..                               Jacob A. Frenkel .         . .                   Aaron Fogel
Italy  .. ....  .       ...  .    . ... .      .  Antonio Fazio .n ...     ...         ......    Mario Draghi
Jamaica' ..........  ....   ...  ..              Hugh Small       .         .                     Omar Davies
Japan .                             ......   Yoshiro Hayashi                   .        .         Yasushi Mieno
Jordan  ....................                      .    Z ad Fariz .a .. . .......              .  Marwan Awad
Kazaknstan  ............F.o.......    Erkeshtay Zh Derbisov  ........                          ...  Beisenbay 1. Izteleuov
Kenya               . ... .. .   Musalia Mudavadi ..Wlfred Koinange
Kiribati   .............              .         .  Taomati luta   ..      . ...       .....      .    Baraniko Baaro
Korea, Republic of ......0......                  .   Jae-Hyong Hong .....  ...   .               Myung-Ho Kim
Kuwait.               .             .....  Nasser Abdullah Al-Roudhan . .                         Bader Meshari Al-Humaidhi
Kyrgyzstan  .............                .......    Amargeldy M. Murahev .......     .            Askar 1. Sarygulov
Lao People's Democratic Republic  . ..  .   Khamxay Souphanouvong    .......    .   Pany Yathotou
Latvia ........  .......  ...             ..    Aivars Kreluss  ..........   ...   ...   .    Dainis Ritinsh
Lebanon    .              ....... .... Fuad Siniora .El-Fadl Chalak
Lesotho                                . .       Selometsi Baho o    .          ... ..... .    Thabo Louis Makhakhe
Liberia  .......  ....             ..........    Amelia A. Ward       .        .Francis T. Karpeh
Libya        ...    . ....  .......   Mo hamed A. Bail El Mal.                       ..  ...  .   Bashir All Khalhat
Lithuanial ...   ...  ......   .V. ....  J                       UhUS Veselka   .    .    .........    Gintautas Preidys
Luxembourg                                       Jean-Claude Juncker   ....   .....   ...   Yves Mersch
Madagascar  ..........               .........    Evariste Marson  .........     .                Jean Gerard Rabevohitra
Malawi .........  .          .............    Louis Joseph Chimango  .. .....         .           Ian Charles Bonongwe
Malaysia ....     ................    Anwar Ibrahim  ........   ...                         ......    Mohd. Sheriff Kassim
Maldives ..   .................    Fathulla Jameel .i .............    (vacanr)
Mali ........................    Mahamar Oumar Maiga   ......                        .            Issaga Dembele
Malra3  ......................    John Dali  .                             ...............    Edgar Wadge
Marshall Islands  .............                ...    Ruben R. Zackhras  .....   .....   ....    Michael Konelios
Mauritania  .............   ...            ...    Mohamedou Ould Michel ..   .....             ....   Mohamed Lemine Ould Deidah
Mauritius  ............  ....               ....    Ahmed Swalay Kasenally  . .......    .   Dharam  Dev Manral
Mex co .                          ... ....   Pedro Aspe Armella .  .....  ... .....   Guillermo Ortiz
Micronesia    .....................   Aloysius J. Tuuth  ..  ....  ...                       ....  Asrerio Takesy
Moldova' ................8..   ...               Claudia Meinic  ....          ...    ..........    Dumitru Ursu
(continued)



230   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Governors and Alternates                                                                                            Appendix I
of the World Bank   (continued)
June 30, 1993
Member                                                            Governor                                      Alternate
Mongolia  ........................   Demchigjavyn Mo omzhamts                      .     .      Dairain Davaasambuu
Morocco .........................   Mohamed Berrada    .                      .Mohammed Dair
Mozambique ......................   Eneas da Conceicao  Comiche .                   .           Adriano Atonso Maleiane
Myanmar  ........................   Wm Tin                    .          .                      Thein Aung Lwin
Namibia' .........................   Zedekia Ngavirue ..... ..............   Godfrey Gaoseb
Nepal .........................                  Mahesh Acharya      .        .Thakur Nath Pant
Netherlands .......................   W. Kok                  .          .J.P. Pronk
New Zealand ......................   Murray Horn                  .         .John Whitehead
Nicaragua ........................   Emiho Pereira Alegria                     .      .       . Jose Evenor Taboada Arana
Niger ...    Abdallah Boureima ....                                       ....           ...  Kane Aichatou Boulama
Nigeria .                           ......   Oladele Olashore ..... .......... ...   David A. Olorunleke
Norway .........................   Sigbjoern Johnsen    .                     .Kari Nordheim-Larsen
Oman .........................   Qais Abdul-Munim  Al-Zawawi .                      .           Mohammed Bin Musa Al Youset
Pakistan  .........................             Sartaj Aziz                         ...    .    R.A.  Akhund
Panama .........................   Delia Cardenas                   .        .Luis H. Moreno, Jr.
Papua New Guinea .................   Julius Chan  ...........                  ..........   Gerea Aopi
Paraguay ........................   Juan J. Diaz Perez .                      .                 Inocencio Palacios
Peru .........................                 Jorge Camet Dickmann   .          .Alfredo Jalilie Awapara
Philippines                      ..... .   Ram6n R. Del Rosar o, Jr.              .             Jose Cuisia, Jr.
Poland  .........................   Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz.                      .             Witold Kozinski
Portugal .........................   Jorge Braga de Macedo.                      .              Jose M. F. Braz
Qatar" ..       ,          ..   Mohammed bin Khalita A -Than. .                                 Abdulla Khalid Al-Atliya
Romana' ........................   Florin Georgescu                   .       .Vladimir Soare
Russian Federation .................   Aleksandr N. Shokhin   .                 .Viktor V. Gerashchenko
Rwanda .........................   Marc Rugenera                    .        .Felicien Ntahondi
St. Kitts and Nevis .................   Kennedy A. Simmonds   .                  .William  V Herbert
St. Lucia .........................   John G.M. Complon    .                    .Bernard Lacorbiniere
St. Vincent and the Grenadines .........   James F. Mitchell    .             .Dwight Venner
Sao Tome and Principe  ..............    Arlindo Alonso de Carvalho  ...........   Adelino Caste o David
Saudi Arabia ...........                        Mohammad Abalkhail .          ....   Hamad Al-Sayari
Senegal  ..........                        .   Papa Ousmane Sakho   .           ...........   Awa Thiongane
Seychellesa .......................   Danielle de St. Jorre   .                 .Bertrand Rassoo
Sierra Leone ......................   John A. Karimu                .        .Nathaniel S.B. Wellington
Singapore' .......................   Richard Hu Tsu Tau    .                    .Ngiam Tong Dow
Slovak Republic ...................   Julius Toth ..                      . ..........      .   V adimir Masar
Slovenia    .......      .................      M itja   Gaspar                     ...    .    (vacant)
Solomon Islands ......... ..........   Christopher C. Abe   .                  .Snyder Rini
Somalia .........................   (vacant)                  .          .(vacant)
South Africa ......................   C.L. Stals                .         .Andries Benjamin La Grange
Spain  ........... ...........   Carlos So chaga   ..... ............   Pedro Perez
Sri Lanka  ... .........B....... ...   DB. Wijetunga  ....                     .                R. Paskara ingam
Sudan  .........................   Abdil Rahim  Mahmood Hamdi .                      .          Mohamed Kheir El Zubeir
Suriname' ........................    Humphrey S. H ldenberg  . ...    Stanly Ramsaran
Swaziland  ........................   Solomon M. Dlamini   .                    .Noreen N. Maphalala
Sweden  .........................   Anne Wibble                   .         .Alt Svensson
Switzerland .......................             Jean-Pascal Delamuraz  .............            Flavio Cotti
Syrian Arab Republic ................   Mohammed Khaled Mahayn   .                  .Adnan A -Saty
Tajikistan  ........................   Kayum K. Kavmidinov   .                   ..........   Normat Y. Yunusov
Tanzania .........................   Steven A. Kibona    .                    .Peter J. Ngumbullu
Thailand .........................   Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda  .                    .Pandil Bunyapana



Appendix 1   231
Member                                                                  Governor                                           Alternate
Togo  .........................    Yandja Yentchabre   ...   .....                             .......    Kwassi Klutse
Tonga ...............   .........                   James Ceci Cocker ............                       .    Selwyn Percy Jones
Trinidad and Tobago  .          ..........  ..    Wendell Mottley  .....  ...          .                 T. Ainsworth Harewood
Tunisia .............                     ..  ...   Mohamed Ghannouchn           .       . .....  ..   Taoutik Baccar
Turkey    ..........    ............    Tevfik Altinok  ..................                         .     Kemal Kabatas
Turkmenistan' ......  ........  ...  .   Hudaiberdy A. Orazov   .                       .........  .   Annadurdy Khadjiev
Uganda ... .................                      ..    Jehoash Mayanja-Nkangi .......      .            Emmenuel Tumusiime-Mutebile
Ukraine' ........................                   VEktor Yushchenko ....           .............    Hryhory 0. Pyatachenko
United Arab Emirates ..........    .  .             Hamdan b n Rashid Al-Maktoum     .            ..    Ahmed Humaid Al-Tayer
United Kingdom   .....            ........  ...    Robin Leigh-Pemberlon  .... ....   .    .    Timothy Lankester
United States    .....           ..............    Lloyd M. Bentsen  .............                     ..    Joan E. Spero
Uruguay'    ......................                  Ignacio de Posadas   .......               ........    Carlos A. Cat
Uzbekistan   ..............  ....            ..     Mullajonov F. Makhsudjonovicn  ...... .    Baqiboev Erkin Joraevich
Vanuatu      ......................    Willie Jimmy .....................    Antoine Pikoune
Venezuela3 . . ....................    Hernan Anzola .   .                        ... ......          ...    Carlos Ratael Silva
Viet Nam    .......................    Cao Si Kiem  .......                         ......... ....       Le Van Chau
Western Samoa .I...          ..............    Tuilaepa S. Malielegaoi  ......... ...                    Epa Tuiot
Yemen, Republic of ..........          .......    Abdul Karim  Al-Eryan   ...............    Anwar Rizq Al-Harazi
Zaire    .........................                   Celestin Tshibwabwa Kanyama  .  .......    Mbonga Magalu Engwanda
Zambia .  ............  ........  ..   Ronald Damson S ame Penza .                          ........   James Mtonga
Zimbabwe ........           ............    B.T.G  Chidzero                 ......          ...          Kombo James Moyana
a Member of the IBRD only



232      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Executive Directors and Alternates                                                                      Appendix 2
of the World Bank and
Their Voting Power
June30, 1993
IBRD             IDA
Total   % ot    Total   9To of
Executive d rector                        Allernate                  Casting votes ot          votes   total    votes    Iota
Appointed
E. Palrick Coady ........... Mark M. Co lins, Jr . ..... United States ..       . ...... . 243,359  17.46 1,422,274  16.26
Yasuyuki Kawahara  .........   Kiyoshi Kodera ......... Japan  ................   .  94,020   6.74   900,671  10.29
Fritz Fischer .............. Harald Rehm ........... Germany.             .              .     72.649   5.21   609,771   6.97
Jean-Pierre Landaub     .    . Jerome Haas.                 France ..... .               ...    .  69,647  5.00   356,294   4.07
David Peretz ..............   David Stanton .......... United Kingdom           .........  69,647  5.00   469,316   5.36
Elected
Bernard Snoy ............. Nurcan Akturk .......... Austria, Belarus,a Belgium,
(Belgium)                       (Turkey)                 Czech Republic, Hungary,
Kazakhstan. Luxembourg.
Slovak Republic, Turkey ......    68,262   4.90   356,698   4.08
Eveline Herfkens .......    Ileana lonescu .... ..  Armenia,' Bu garia,3 Cyprus,
(Netherlands)                   (Romania)                Georgia,' Israel, Moldova,'
Netherands, Romania,' Ukraine' .  68,189   4.89   225,567   2.58
Frank Potter3 ..        ...  Hubert Dean ....            .  Antigua and Barbuda,' The
(Canada)                       (The Bahamas)             Bahamas,' Barbados.a Be ize,
Canada, Dom nica, Grenada,
Guyana. Ireland, Jamaica,.
St. Kins and Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines  .  61,134   4.39   364,986   4.17
Bimal Jalan ....                M.A. Syed ............ Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
(India)                        (Bangladesh)              Sri Lanka ..............        ...  54,519   3.91   372,945   4.26
Enzo Gri Ii ....      ....... Fernando S. Carneiro.         Albania, Greece. Italy. Malta,'
(Italy)                         (Portugal)               Portuga  ................          .  54,354   3.90   352,383   4.03
Angel Torres ..........         Gabriel Castellanos .       Costa Rica, El Salvador,
(Spain)                         (Gualemala)              Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico.
Nicaragua, Panama, Spain,
Venezuela3 .......           . .  50,597  3.63   246,785   2.82
Jorunn Maehlum ........         Helga Jonsdottir ...        Denmark. Estonia,a Finland,
(Norway)                        (Iceland)                Iceland, Latvia. Litnuania,3
Norway, Sweden  ............    49,166   3.53   421,630   4.82
Wang Liansheng ........... Zhang Shengman .                 Ch na ................             45,049   3.23   176,657   2.02
(China)                         (China)
Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf ......... Ahmed M. Al-Ghannam   .  Saudi Arabia ........... .              45.045   3.23   302,521   3.46
(Saudi Arabia)                 (Saudi Arabia)
Mohamed Benhocine ........  Arshad Farooq  .........  Afghan stan, Algeria, Ghana,
(A geria)                       (Pakistan)               Iran (Islamic Republic of).
Morocco, Pakistan. Tunisia .....  43.814   3.14   191.082   2.18
John H. Cosgrove ........   Bong-Hee Won .......   Austra ia. Kiribati, Korea
(Australia)                     (Republic of Korea)      (Repub ic of), Marshall Islands,
Mongolia, New Zealand,
Papua New Guinea. Solomon
Islands, Vanuatu, Western Samoa   42,971   3.08   220,093   2.52
Pedro Malan ...           ..  (vacant)3 ...   Brazil. Co ombia, Dominican
(Brazil)                                                 Republic, Ecuador, Haiti,
Philippines. Suriname,a
Trinidad and Tobago  .....       ...  42,374   3.04   253,854   2.90
Faisal A. Al-Khaled  ......... Mohamed W. Hosny  .....  Bahrain.3 Egypt (Arab Republic
(Kuwait)                       (Arab Repub ic of Egypt)  ot), Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libya, Maldives, Oman, Qatar,3
Syrian Arab Republic, United
Arab Emirates, Yemen (Repub ic
of) .................. .  41,357   2.97   217,318   2.48



Appendix 2   233
IBRD               IDA
Tota    ftO of    Tola       of
Execut ve director                            A ternate                      Casting votes of             votes    total    votes      total
Jean-Danie  Gerber  .. . . .. Jan Su m cki  ...  . . .  Azerbaijan,' Kyrgyzstan, Poland,
(Switzerland)                      (Poland)                    Switzerland, Turkmenistan,'
Uzbek stan .  . ..... . . . .  37.698   2.70   276.558   316
Aris Othman .     .         . . . Jarnes Hutagalung.              Fq. Indonesia, Lao People's
(Malaysia)                         (Indonesia)                 Democratic Repubi c, Malaysia,
Myanmar, Nepal, S ngapore,3
Thailand, Tonga. Viet Nam    . . . 36,616   2.63   242.261    2.77
O.K. Matambo ..          .....     Harry M. Mapondo          .   Angola, Botswana. Burundi,
(Botswana)                         (Malawi)                    Ethiop a, The Gambma, Gu nea,
Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Maiaw!,
Mozambique, Nam bla.a Niger a
Seychelles,a Sierra Leone, Sudan.
Swazi and, Tanzania. Uganda,
Zambia, Zimbabwe ....  .                .  30.563   2.19   336,587   3.85
Boris G. Fedorov ......... Alexander N. Doemrnov                . Russian Federation .  .     ...       25,390    1.82    28,202    032
(Russ an Federation)               (Russian Federation)
Nicolas Fla.o    . . .            . Jul o Nogues  .. .      . .   Argentina. Bolivia, Chile,
(Chile)                            iArgentina)                 Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay'   . .        24,745    178   158.835    1.82
Jean-Pierre Le Bouder .            A i Bourhane .  .         .    Ben n, Burkina Faso  Cameroon,
(Central Afr can                (Comoros)                      Cape Verde, Centra African
Republic)                                                   Repib ic, Chad, Comoros, Congo
Cote d Ivoire Dtibout, Equatorna
Gu nea, Gabon, Gumiea-B ssau,
Madagascar, Mal , Maur tania,
Maurit us, N ger, Rwanda, Sao
Tome and Princ pe, Senega,
Togo. Zaire .   ....           ....    22,913    1.64   246.369   2.82
In addition to the executive directors and alternates shown in the foregoing fist, the foilow ng aiso served after October 31, 1992.
Executive director           End of period ol service                                Alternate director            End of period of service
Fawzi Hamad Al-Su tan ........ February 5, 1993                                       Leonid M. Grigoriev ..... .    .. . March 2, 1993
(Kuwa t)                                                                             (Russian Federalion)
Rosario Bonavoglia ..... .    ... January 14, 1993                                    Bor s Skapin   .       . ..... ...  May 31, 1993
(Italy)                                                                               (Slovenia)
A. John W Ison .March 31. 1993
(New Zealand)
NOTE: Total votes shown in this table d fter from those published n the financ al slatements as cerlain countr es either d d not partc pate n the most recent
e ection of executive directors or became memnbers after that elect on As a resull, voting power percentages also d Her Cambodia (464 votes n IBRD and 7 826
votes in ODAI, iraq (3 058 votes n IBRD and 9,407 votes n IDA), Soma ia (802 votes n IBRD and 10,506 voles in DA) and South Afr ca (13 712 votes in
IBRD and 25,137 votes n IDA) did not part cipate in the 1992 regular e ection of execulive directors Croatia (1,537 votes in I8RD and 13,366 votes n DA)
Micronesia (729 votes in BRD and 18,424 votes in IDA) Slovenia (958 votes n IBRD and 7 546 voles ir IDA), and Talikistan (1 310 votes in IBRD and 20,568
votes n IDA) became members after that election
a Member ol the IBRD only
b. To be succeeded by Marc-Anto ne Autheman (France) effective August 4, 1993
c To be succeeded by Robert R de Cotret (Canadal effecicve August 20 1993
d Marcela Cartagena (Ecuador) appo nled effective Ju y 1, 1993



234    IBRD/IDA Appendices
Officers and Department Directors                                                                                              Appendix 3
of the World Bank
June 30, 1993
President   .............................................................                                              Lewis T. Preston
Managing Director                          ....................    Attila Karaosmanoglu
Managing Director   ..........................................................                                         Sven Sandstrom
M anaging   Director   ........................................................                                 .      Ernest   Stern
Vice President, Atrica    ........................................................                                      Edward V.K. Jaycox
Vice President, Cofinanc ng and Fnancial Advisory Serv ces  ...........  .............                                 Koji Kashiwaya
Vice President and Controller                          ..........................                                       Stephen D. Eccles
Vice President and Chiet Economist, Development Economics                          ........................             D.C. Rao (Acting)
Vice President, East Asia and Pacific               .........................................   .                       Gautam  S. Kaji
Vice President, Environmentally Sustainable Development                                  .                              smail M. Serageldin
Vice President, Europe and Central Asia                  ........................................                      Wiltried P. Thalwitz
Vice President, Finance and Private Seclor Development  .                  ..............................              Jean-Francois Rischard
Vice Pres dent, Financial Policy and Risk Management  .......... .                 ..............                       Johannes F. Linn
Vice President, Human Resources Development and Operations Policy  ......                         ...............      Armeane M. Choksi
V ce President, Latin America and Caribbean  ......................................                                    S. Shahid Husain
Vice President and General Counsel ...............                    ...............................                   Ibrahim  FI. Shihata
Vice Presidenl, Middle East and North Atrica  .............                      .........................             Caio K. Koch-Weser
Director-Genera , Operations Evaluation   ...........................................                                  Robert Picciotto
Vice Pres denlt  Personnel and Administration  .......................................                                 Bilsel H. Alisbah
Vice President and Secretary                                                                                           Ti................................... ............  Timothy T. Thahane
V ce President and Special Adviser                                       .  ...             .  .....                   Visvanathan Rajagopalan
V ce President, South Asia  ......................                            .          .........            ..      Joseph D. Wood
Vice President and Treasurer            ...................................................                            Jessica P. Einhorn
Legal
Deputy General Counsel  ...............                   .....................................                        David M. Goldberg
Assistant Genera  Counsel Operal ons                       ...............................  ..                          Andres R go
Assistant General Counsel Admin strat on and General Aftairs  ..........                                                Eva L. Meigher
Assistant General Counsel Finance                  ...............................................                     Stephen A. Silard
Secretary's
Deputy Secretary, General Operations .............                    .................. ............                  Arno d T. Clitt
Africa Regional Office
Director, Occidenta and Central Africa Department: Benin, Cameroon, Central Atrican Republic.
Congo. Cote dilvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Guinea, Togo ........                      .................        Olivier Lafourcade
Director, Eastern Africa Department: Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda  .....                 ...      Francis X. Colaco
D rector, South-Central and Indian Ocean Department: Angola. Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti.
Madagascar, Mauritius, Rwanda, Seychelles, Zaire .................................                                  F.J. Aguirre-Sacasa
D rector, Weslern Airica Departmenl: Ghana, Gu nea-Bissau, Liber a, N geria. Sao Tomi and
Principe, Sierra Leone ............................. .                               ............                   Edwin R. Lim
D rector, Sahelian Departmenl: Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Chad, Gambia. Mali, Mauritania, Niger.
Senegal .................... .....    Katherine Marshall
D rector, Southern Atrica Department: Bolswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozamb que, Namibia, South
Airca, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimbabwe  ...........                         .... ....................                   Stephen M. Denning
Director, Atrica Technica  Department .............                .....           ....................                Kevin M. Cleaver
Asia Technical Department
Director ....................                                                                                 .    Daniel Ritchie
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Director, Country Department l: Cambodia, Korea, Lao PDR, Malaysa, Mekong Committee,
Myanmar, Philippines. Thailand, Vietnam              ...................           .....................            Callisto E. Madavo
Director, Country Department ll: China. Mongol a .................................  .                                  Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Department IlIl: Fiji. Indonesia, K ribali, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Papua New
Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu, Western Samoa  .....   ...                        .................        Marianne Haug
South Asia Regional Office
Director, Country Department l: Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal                    .............. ............               Ann 0. Hami ton
Director, Counlry Department Il: India                 .......................................                         Heinz Vergin
Director, Country Department III: Islamic State oi Atghanistan. Pakistan, Sri Lanka .....                 ........     Paul Isenman



Appendix 3   235
Europe and Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa Regions Technical
Department
D irector  . . .. . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  A nil  Sood
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Director, Counlry Department 1: Bulgaria, Cyprus, Portugal, Romana, Turkey                         Michael Wiehen
Director, Country Department 11: Albania, Czech Republic. Slovak Republic. Hungary, Poland, Ihe
successor States of Yugoslavia .Kema Dervis
Director, Country Department 111. Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russian Federation,
Tadjikistan. Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan.                                                           RusseOi J. Cheetham
Direclor, Country Department IV: Armenia, Belarus, Eston a, Georgia. Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova,
Ukraine .Basil G. Kavalsky
Director, Resource Mobiiization and Private Sector Development.                                    Ghassan El-Rilai
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Director, Country Department 1: Algeria, Libya, Malta, Morocco, Tunisa .Harinder S. Kohli
Director, Country Department ll: Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq. Jordan, Kuwait. Lebanon, Oman. Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, Syria, United Arab Emirates, Yemen .. ... . ....   ........ .....                  Ram Kumar Chopra
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Direclor, Country Department 1. Brazil, Peru, Venezuela .Rainer B. Steckhan
Director, Country Departmenl 11: Costa Rica, El Savador. Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua,
Panama ................... ........ ...... .... .......... ....   ..  Edilberto L. Segura
Director, Country Department III: Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Caribbean Development Bank,
Colombia, Dominican Republic, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica. OECS Member States, Suriname
Trinidad and Tooago ....... ... . .....              . ... . . ... ............ ...  Yoshiak Abe
Director, Country Department IV. Argentina, Chi e, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay ... .  .........  Ping-Cheung Loh
Director Technical Departmen .            . .... ...    ...      ...    ..      .... ... .   .  M.G  Sri-Ram Ajyer
Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services
D irector  .   ...     ... ..   ......   ...   ...............     . ... .     ...   .   .    .   ..  Inder   Sud
Development Economics
Director, Development Policy Department                                                            Anandarup Ray (Acting)
Director, Economic Development Institule                                                            Amnon Golan
Director, International Economics Department                                                        D.C  Rao
Director, Policy Research Department .            .                                                Nancy Birdsall'
Administrator, Research Adv sory Statt       ............. . ... ..... ... ..... .  Shahid Yusut (Acting)
Environmentally Sustainable Development
Director, Agriculture and Natural Resources Department .Michel J Petit
Chiet Environmental Advisor to tne President and Director, Environment Department                  Mohamed T. El-Ashry
Director, Transportation, Water and Urban Development Department ... . .. . ...                    Louis Y. Pouliquen
Executive Secretary, Consultative Group On Internationa Agricultura Research  .    .....           Alexander von der Osten
Finance and Private Sector Development
Director. F nancial Sector Development Department . .   ...   ............   ... ... ..  Millard F. Long (Acting)
Director, Industry and Energy Department                                                           Richard D. Stern
Director, Private Seclor Development Department ...            . .         .        . . .   .      Magdi R. Iskander
Human Resources Development and Operations Policy
Director, Education and Social Policy Department                                                    K.Y. Amoako
Director, Operations Policy Department                        J.                           . .      ames W. Adams
Director, Population, Health ard Nutrition Department                                              Janet de Merode
Financial Policy and Risk Management
Director, Resource Mobilization Department                                                          Paula Donovan
Director, Risk Management and Financial Policy Department                ........    Mieko Nishimizu
Treasury
Director, Cash Management Department                           ........   Walter Peyerl
Director,  Financial  Operations  Department  ..    ...........    ...    ...    ...    ...........    ...    Kenneth  G. Lay
Director,  Investment  Department               ... ......................           ....       .    Veronique  Lavorel
(continued)



236   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Officers and Department Directors                                                                                              Appendix 3
of the World Bank (continued)
June 30, 1993
Treasury
Director, Pension Depanment  . .               ..............         .............  ...........                       Nestor V. Santiago
Director,  Tokyo   Otfice    ..... .........       .  .  .   ...        .     .............   .........      ...       Shinichiro    Kawamata
Controller's
Director, Accounting Department  .........................                 .......         ....      .  .......        M chael E. Ruddy
Aud lor Genera , Interna  Auditing Department  ...  ...  ...  .  .                 ..    ......           ... ...      Allan D. Legg
Director, Loan Department          ......   .......      ............              ...............                     V.S. Raghavan
Director, Planning and Budget ng Department                                                                            Ro.....................................  Richard B. Lynn
Personnel and Administration
D rector, External Afta rs Department  .........  ..............................                                       Alexander Shakow
Director. General Services Department   ...  ......                      .  ..........................      .....      Haro d W. Messenger
Director.  Health   Services   Department    .     ......................................                       ...    Bernhard   H.  Liese
Director Inlormation, Technology and Facilit es Department ............                                                Hywel M. Davies
Head.  Organization    P  anning    Statt  ..........................                  .......     .     ....... ..    Ian   A.  Scott
DirecIco. Personnel Management Department   ........                  ...............             ............         Alberto de Capitani
Director, Personnel Serv ces and Compensation Department ..............  ..............                                Everardo Wessels
Director, European Oifice               ...................................................                            Hans Wyss
Operations Evaluation
Director, Operations Evaluation Department ........                                                                    Hans-Eberhard Kopp
a To be succeeded by Lyn Squire on October l, 1993.



Appendix 4   237
Offices of the World Bank                                                                                  Appendix 4
June 30, 1993
Headquarters: 1818 H Street, N.W., Wasinrglon, D.C. 20433. U S.A.
New York Office                             Wadi D. Haddad                               The Wor d Bank Mission to the
Specia Representat ve to the                   United Nations/New York Dffice
United Nations                           809 United Nations P aza. Suite 900
New York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.
European Office                              Hans Wyss                                   The World Bank
Director                                    66, avenue d'Iena
75116 Paris, France
London                                      Janet C. M. Hickman                          World Bank
Resident Adm nistrative                     New Zea and House. 15th F oor
Ohicer                                      Haymarket
London. SW1 Y4TE, England
Tokyo Office                                 Sh nich ro Kawamata                         The World Bank
D rector                                    Kokusai Build ng (Room 916)
1-1, Marunouchi 3-chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan
Regional Mission                            F. Stephen O'Brien                           The World Bank
in Eastern Africa                         Chiet, Res dent M ssion                     View Park Towers
Monrov a Street
Nairobi. Kenya
(mailing address: P 0. Box 305771
Regional Mission                             Robert A. Calderis                          The World Bank
in Western Africa                         Chief, Resident Mission                     Corner of Booker Wasn ngton and
Jacques AKA Streets
Cocody, Ab djan 01
Cboe d'lvoire
(maiing address: B.P. 1850)
Regional Mission                            Bradley 0. Babson                            The World Bank
in Thailand                               Chief, Resident Mission                     14th floor, Tower A, Diethe m Towers
93/1 Wireless Road. Pathumwan
Bangkok, Thailand 10330
Regional Mission in                         Lars Jeur ing                                Tne World Bank
Latvia                                    Chief, Resident Mission                     148a Brivibas ela, 5th hioor
LV-1012 Riga Latvia
Baltics Regional Mission                     Hi lar Laur                                 The Wor d Bank/Maailmapank
Satellite in Estonia                      Operations Ofticer                          Kchtu 8
Tal inn EE0001
Estonia
Baltics Regional Mission                    Ramune Zabuliene                             The World Bank
Satellite in Lithuania                    Operat ons Officer                          Gedimino Avenue 11
VilniLus 2039
Lithuania
Albania                                      Kut ay Ebiri                                The World Bank
Res dent Representative                     Deshmorel e 4 Shkurt t. No 34
Tirana. Alban a
Angola                                       F orent Agueh                               Banco Mundial
Resident Representative                     Rua A tredo Troni (Edificio BPC)
14' Andar
CP 1331. Luanda, Angoa
Argentina                                    Patricio Millan                             Banco Mundial
Resident Representative                     Avenida Leandro N. Alem 628-30
Piso 12
Buenos Aires, Argentina
(continueda



238      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank  (continued)                                                                 Appendix 4
June 30, 1992
Bangladesh                                   Christopher Wi loughby                  The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission                 3A Paribagh
Dhaka 1000, Bang adesh
(mailing address: G.P.O. 97)
Benin                                        Eduardo Locatelli                       The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Zone Residentielle de la Radio
Cotonou, Benin
(mailing address: B.P. 03-2112)
Bolivia                                      Constance A. Bernard                    Banco Mundial
Resident Representative                 Edificio BISA. Piso 9
16 de Julio 1628
La Paz, Bolivia
(mai ing address: Casilla 8692)
Brazil                                       George P. Papadopoulos                  Banco Mundial
Resident Representative                 Selor Comercial Su , Quadra 1, Bloco H
Editicio Morro Vermelho-8 Andar
Brasilia. DF 70399-900, Brazil
Brazil                                       George P. Papadopoulos                  Banco Mundiai
Representative                          Rua Visconde de Piraja
No. 351, Sala 1206,
Ipanema 22410-003
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil
Brazil                                       Tulio Barbosa                           Banco Mundia, S!127
Act ng Head of Field Office             Editicio SUDENE
Cidade Universitaria
50.738 Recife PE. Brazil
Bulgaria                                     John Wilton                             The World Bank
Resident Representative                 World Trade Center-Sofia
36 Dragan Tsankov Boulevard
Sofia, Bulgaria
Burkina Faso                                 Albert D. Osei                          The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Immeuble BICIA (3eme etage)
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
(mai ing address: B.P. 622)
Burundi                                      Jacqueline R. Damon                     The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Avenue du 18 Septembre
Bujumbura, Burundi
(mailing address: B.P. 2637)
Cameroon                                     Joseph K. Ingram                        The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Immeuble Kennedy
Avenue Kennedy
Yaounde, Cameroon
(mailing address B.P. 1128)
Central African Republic                     Lucien E. Moreau                        Banque mondiae
Resident Representative                 Rue des missions
Bangui, C.A.R.
(mailing address: B.P. 819)
Chad                                         Noel M. Carrere                         The World Bank
Resident Representative                 P.O. Box 146
N'djamena, Chad



Appendix  4        239
China                                        Pieter Bottelier                        The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission                 No. 2 Fu Cheng Lu
D'aoyutai, State Guest House
Building No. 5
Beijing 100830, China
(mailing address: P.O. Box 802)
Colombia                                     Kristin Ha lberg                        Banco Mundial
Res dent Representative                 Carrera 10, No. 86-21, Piso 3
Apartado Aereo 10229
Bogota, D.E., Colombia
(mailing address: Apartado Aereo 10229)
Congo                                        Manga Kuoh-Moukouri                     Banque mondiale
Resident Representative                 Immeuble Arc (5eme etage)
Avenue Amilcar Cabral
Brazzaville, Congo
(mailing address: B.P. 14536)
Egypt                                       Sven Burmester                           The World Bank
Resident Representative                 World Trade Center
1191 Corniche El-Nil
15th Floor
Cairo, Egypt
Ethiopia                                    Abhay Deshpande                          The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Air ca Avenue
Bole
Addis Ababa, Eth opia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 5515)
Ghana                                        Ravi Kanbur                             The World Bank
Resident Representative                 69 Eighth Avenue Extens on
Northridge Residential Area
Accra, Ghana
(maling address: P.O. Box M27)
Guinea                                       Michael J. Wilson                       Banque Mondia e
Resident Representat ve                 Immeuble de l'Archeveche
Face Baie des Anges
Conakry, Guinea
(ma ling address B.P. 1420)
Guinea-Bissau                               Yves J. Tencalla                         World Bank
Resident Representative                 Apartado 700
1041, Guinea-Bissau
Hungary                                     Andrew P. Rogerson                       World Bank
Resident Representat ve                 Suba Trade Center, 4th F oor
Nagymezo Utca 44
Budapest 1065, Hungary
India                                       Oktay Yena                               The World Bank
Chief, Resident Mission                 55 Lodi Estate
New Delhi 110 003, India
(mailing address: P.O. Box 416,
New Delhi 110 001)
Indonesia                                    Nicho as C. Hope                        The World Bank
Director, Resident Staft                Jalan Rasuna Said. Kav. B-10, 3rd floor
Kuningan, Jakarta 12940,
Indonesia
(ma ling address: P.O. Box 324!JKT)
(continued)



240      IBRD/IDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank  (continued)                                                                     Appendix 4
June 30, 1992
Kazakhstan                                    David Pearcea                             The World Bank
Resident Representat ve                  Dostyk Hotel
Almaty, Kazaknstan
Madagascar                                    Michel Palein                             Banque mondiale
Resident Reoresentative                  1. Rue Patrice Lumumba
Antananarivo 101, Madagascar
(rnailing address: B.P. 4140)
Malawi                                        Arit Zu tiqar                             The World Bank
Resident Representative                  Development House
Cap ta City
Li ongwe 3, Malawi
(mailing address: P.O. Box 30557)
Mali                                          Linda McGinnis                            The World Bank
Residenl Representative                  Immeuble SOGEFIH
Avenue Moussa Travele
Quarlier du Fleuve
Bamako, Mali
(mailing address B.P. 1864)
Mauritania                                    Claide Delapierre                         The World Bank
Resident Representat ve                  Villa No. 30, I ot A
Quatier Socotim
Nouakchott, Mauritana
(mailing address: B.P. 667)
Mexico                                        Eugene D. McCarthy                        Banco Mundial
Resident Representative                  Plaza Nalin
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Nivel Paseo, Locales 71 y 72
Co Guada upe inn
01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mozambique                                    Roberto Chavez'                           Word Bank
Resident Representative                  Ave Kenneth Kaunda, 1224
2-Andar
Maputo, Mozambique
(mail ng address: Caixa Postal 4053)
Nepal                                         Joseph Manickavasagam                     The World Bank
Resident Represental ve                  Jyoti Bhawan, Kantipath
Kathmandu, Nepa
(mailing address: P.O. Box [98)
Nicaragua                                     U rich Lachler                            The World Bank
Resident Representative                  Ed licio Malaga. Modulo A-1
Plaza Espana
Managua, Nicaragua C.A.
Niger                                         Abdu Haii                                 Banque mondiale
Resident Representalive                  Rue des Dallols
N amey. Niger
(ma ling address: B.P. 12402)
Nigeria                                       Gerald F. Flood                           The World Bank
Resident Representative                  lsl Floor. Plot PC-10
Engineering Close. ott Idowu Taylor Street
Victoria Island
Lagos, Nigeria
(mailing address: P.O. Box 127)



Appendix  4        241
Pakistan                                    Philppe Nouvel                          The World Bank
Chief. Resident Mission                 20 A
Shahrah-e-Jamhurial,
Is amabad, Pakistan
(mail ng address. P.O Box 1025)
Philippines                                 Thomas W  Allen                         The Wor d Bank
Resident Representative                 Centra Bank ol the Philippines
Multi-Storey Building. Room 200
Roxas Boulevard
Manila, Philippines
Poland                                      Ian M  Hume                             The World Bank
Resident Represenatwev                 INTRACO I Bulding
17th Floor
2 Stawki Street
00-193 Warsaw, Poland
Romania                                     Arntraud Hartman                        The World Bank
Residert Represenlalive                 Boulevard Dacia 83
Sector 2
Bucharesl, Romania
Russia                                      Everardus Stout)esdivk                  The World Bank
Res denl Representative                 Moscow Ottice
Sadovo-Kudrinskaya No. 3
Moscow 123242
Rwanda                                      Jul o Gamba                             The World Bank
Resident Representalve                  Blvd de ia Revolution
SORAS Bulding
Kigali, Rwanda
tma ling address P.O Box 609)
Saudi Arabia                                Mohsin Al khan                          The World Bank Resident Mission
Resident Representative                 UNDP Building, King Faisal Street
R.yaon Saudi Arabia 11432
(mai ing address: P 0. Box 5900)
Senegal                                     Elkyn Chaparro                          The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Immeuble S D.l.H
3 Place de 'lIndependance
Dakar, Seregal
(ma lIg address. B.P. 3296)
Somalia                                     (vacant)                                The World Bank
Resident Representative                 Savoy Centre (2nd Floor)
Mogadishu, Somalia
)mai mg address: P D. Box 18251
Sri Lanka                                   J Roberto B Bentjerodt                  The World Bank
Resident Representat ve                 Development Finance Corporation ol Ceylon
(DFCC) Building. Is! Floor
73/5 Gaile Road
Colombo 3, Sri Lanka
(main ing address: PD. Box 1761)
Sudan                                       (vacant)                                The World Bank
Resident Representative                 AAAID Building
Block 9
East Kharloum, Sudan
(mail ng address P.O. Box 2211)
(continued)



242       IBRD/fDA Appendices
Offices of the World Bank  (continued)                                                                       Appendix 4
June 30, 1992
Tanzania                                      Motoo Konishi                             The World Bank
Resident Representative                  N.I.C. Building (7th Floor, B)
Dar-es-Salaam. Tanzania
(ma ling address: P.O. Box 2054)
Togo                                          Jacques Daniel                            The Word Bank
Resident Representative                  169 boulevard du 13 Janvier
Immeuble BTCI (8eme etage)
Lome, Togo
(mailing address: B.P. 3915)
Turkey                                        Luis de Azcarate0                         The World Bank
Chief. Resident Mission                  Ataturk Bulvari, No. 211
Gama-Guris Building Kat 6
06683 Kavaklidere,
Ankara, Turkey
Uganda                                        Brian Falconerc                           The World Bank
Resident Representative                  P.O. Box 4463
Kampala. Uganda
Ukraine                                       Daniel Kautmann                           World Bank
Chief. Regional Mission                  Karl L ebknecht St., 26
Suites Two and Three
Kiev 252024, Ukraine
Uzbekistan                                    Parvez Hasan                              43, Academician Suleimanova St.
Regonal Representative                   Tashkent, Uzbekistan
Venezuela                                     Jorge C. Barrientos                       Banco Mundial
Resident Representative                  Parque Cristal
Editicio Torre Oeste, Piso 15
Oficina 15-05
Avenida Francisco de Miranda
Los Palos Grandes
Caracas, Venezuela
Zaire                                         William j. Grau                           The Worid Bank
Resident Representative                  Immeuble de la Communaute Hellenique
(acting)                                 Boulevard du 30 Juin
Kinshasa 1, Zaire
(mailing address: P.O. Box 14816)
Zambia                                        Fernando Mendoza                          The World Bank
Residenl Representative                  Red Cross House, 2nd Floor
Long Acres
Lusaka, Zambia
(mailing address: P.O. Box 35410)
Zimbabwe                                      Christiaan J. Poortman                    The World Bank
Resident Representative                  CABS Centre (11th F oori
Jason Moyo Avenue
Harare, Zimbabwe
(maling address: P.O. Box 2960)
a. Effectve August 1 1993.
b. Elfective June 30, 1993
c. To be succeeded by Frederick T Temple as of October 1, 1993.
d. Effective Juily 1, 1993



Appendix 5    243
Development Committee                                                         Appendix 5
Communiques, Fiscal 1993
Forty- fourth meeting, Washington.                 5. FOREIGN  INVESTMENT. For most
September 21, 1992                               developing countries, earnings from trade must
1. The Development Committee held its    be supplemented bv external resources. For a
44th meeting in Washington DC, on September    growing number of them, a large part of these
21. 1992. under the chairmanship of Mr. Ale-    resources is now provided by private foreign
jandro Foxley, Minister of Finance of Chile.'   investors in the form of direct foreign invest-
After reviewing the world economic scene. this    ment. Ministers noted the recent increase in
meeting concentrated on ways of increasing    portfolio investment, while recognizing that its
resources for development. The Committee    higher liquidity made its impact different from
welcomed the new members who have joined    FDI. Ministers considered the measures nec-
the Bank and the Fund since their last meeting.    essary to attract more private flows, and con-
2. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES. Min-    cluded that the measures which promote do-
isters recalled their agreement at their meeting    mestic investment are likely also to attract
in Bangkok on the development objectives of   foreign investors and the return of flight capi-
the nineties: the reduction of poverty and the    tal. They concluded that the maintenance of
achievement of sustainable growth, actions to    macroeconomic stability and the creation of a
protect the environment being essential to both    climate favorable to enterprise are essential.
objectives. They reviewed the resources nec-    both to attract more investment and to increase
essary to reach these objectives, and the ac-   the number of countries receiving foreign
tions which would be necessary to increase    flows.
their volume and effectiveness.                    6. INVESTMENT  GUIDELINES. Addi-
3. DOMESTIC RESOURCES. They noted    tional measures may be needed to attract for-
that most developing countries2 fund the major    eign investment. The creation and mainte-
part of their investment from domestic savings,    nance of a suitable legal framework can be an
both public and prvate. They concluded there-   important part of this process. Ministers there-
fore that the top prioritv is for developing coun-    fore reviewed with interest the Investment
tries wherever possible to increase the volume of   Guidelines which will shortly be published,
these savings and the effectiveness of their use.   together with an explanatory commentary, and
This will require the adoption and maintenance    call them to the attention of member countries.
of appropriate macroeconomic policies: reduc-    These Guidelines have been prepared at the
tion in wasteful and unproductive programs;   request of the Development Committee to pro-
and efficient financial and banking svstems.     mote fair and equitable international standards
4. TRADE. Ministers agreed that a much    for the general treatment of all foreign direct
more open world trading system  would be    investment in the absence of applicable trea-
beneficial to all countries but is of the utmost   ties, and should be of particular value to de-
importance to the developing countries. In the    veloping  countries.  Ministers  expect  the
context of resource flows, developing coun-    Guidelines to serve as an important step in the
tries need to increase earnings from trade. in    progressive development of international prac-
order to finance imports, service debt and to   tice in this area and hope that they will facili-
promote  sustainable  domestic  economic   tate further developments through bilateral
growth. Increased export opportunities will   treaties and similar instruments. They also
also make developing countries more attract-    noted the related work being undertaken in
ive to investors. They therefore emphasized    other fora to develop principles for the conduct
once again the need for rapid agreement on the    of foreign investors.
outstanding issues in the Uruguay Round. not-
ing that this would lead to a broader, more       Mr. Lewis T. Preston. President or the World Bank. Mr.
liberal and more stable trading system, and       Michel Camdessusn Managing Director of the international
libera and   ore sable tadingsyste, and Monetary Fund. Mr. Ahmadui Abubakar, Minister of Fi-
extend market access for many developing          nance of Nigeria and Chairman of the Group of 24. and Mr.
countries. They agreed that regional trade ar-    Peter MountField. Executive Secretary, participated in the
rangements should emphasize trade-creation        meeting. Observers from a number of other international
rather than trade-diversion, consistent with      and regional organizations and from Switzerland also at-
tended.
multilateral principles, and should ensure trade    2 in the rest of this Communique the phrase "developing
opportunities for developing countries.           countries" includes economies in transition.



244   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Development Commiffee                                                   Appendix 5
Communiques, Fiscal 1993 (continued)
7. COMMERCIAL BANK AND MARKET    arrangements have now been reached with 12
LENDING. Ministers welcomed the increas-   countries and account for more than 90 percent
ing access of certain developing countries to   of the commercial bank debt of the major
the international financial markets, especially   debtor nations. They urged the Paris Club to
by those which are implementing sustainable   recognize the special situation of some highly
economic reforms. and have entered into debt   indebted lower-middle income countries on a
and debt-service agreements with the commer-   case-by-case basis. Ministers also welcomed
cial banks. They considered that some increase   the enhanced debt relief extended to the poor-
in the volume of trade finance and project   est countries by the Paris Club, noting that the
lending provided by the banks may occur. but   Paris Club has agreed to consider the stock of
noted that commercial bank lending to devel-   debt. under certain conditions, after a period of
oping countries was unlikely to return to pre-   three to four years. They invited the Paris Club
vious levels. They noted the active role taken   to maintain its continuing review of the debt
by the Inter-American Development Bank and    strategy. They acknowledged the continued
other regional banks in promoting effective    need of support for heavily-indebted countries
investment reforms which are essential for   which by adopting strong adjustment policies
nurturing a stable financial environment. They    have avoided rescheduling.
believed that the international financial institu-  10. BILATERAL AID. Poorer developing
tions should continue to encourage the effi-   countries will continue to require substantial
cient mobilization of financial resources by    concessional assistance for many years. A
promoting effective investment reforms, priva-    number of additional countries have recently
tization and financial sector reforms. Ministers   become potential recipients of aid, while new
noted the improved economic performance   requirements. especially in the environmental
achieved by the developing countries following   field, have added to the needs. The Committee
the implementation of debt and debt-service    noted that the World Bank and the IMF believe
reduction and therefore encouraged the timely   that an increased volume of external re-
conclusion  of negotiations between  other   sources. to complement the efforts of the de-
countries and their commercial banks.        veloping countries, will be crucial to meeting
8. INCREASING  NONCONCESSIONAL    those needs. Ministers therefore invited bilat-
FLOWS. Ministers agreed to review at their   eral donors to increase their assistance, partic-
next meeting the prospects for increasing the    ularly for countries that are sustaining sound
flows of private resources. and improving the    policies, as circumstances permit, especially
access of developing countries to global mar-   those whose aid programs are still below 0.7%
kets for loan and equity capital. Members   of GNP. and welcomed the contribution of
agreed on the need to gather accurate and   those whose aid is substantially above that
timely information on the stocks and flows of   level. They stressed the need for donors and
private capital to developing countries and to   recipients to emphasize the quality and effec-
assess the implications of these developments.   tiveness of aid, and for an increased proportion
They asked the Bank and the Fund to prepare   to be directed toward improving the living
a joint paper for this purpose which would also    conditions of the poor, and to the poorest
include the role of the international financial   countries and those with a strong commitment
institutions in promoting and catalyzing such   to poverty reduction.
flows and the extent of any remaining obsta-    11. MULTILATERAL FLOWS. Ministers
cles placed by developing and industrial coun-   recognized the need for multilateral action to
tries to resource flows.                     complement that of bilateral donors. They
9. DEBT. Ministers recognized that the ef-   noted the ongoing negotiations over the Tenth
forts of many developing countries need to be    Replenishment of IDA. They urged the IDA
supported by rescheduling and, in some cases.   Deputies to make significant progress at their
by debt and debt service reduction measures,   meeting in November 1992 so as to secure
both public and private. Ministers welcomed    agreement by the end of the year on a substan-
the progress in the international debt strategy.   tial IDA-10 replenishment. Ministers also
including arrangements this year with Argen-   agreed that continuing consideration should be
tina, Bolivia, and Brazil among others. Such    given to an Earth Increment for environmental



Appendix 5    245
purposes. They welcomed the extension to    agreed to meet again in Washington DC on
November 1993 of the period for commitments    May 1. 1993.
under the Fund's enhanced structural adjust-
ment facilitv  (ESAF) and  the  Executive    Fort V-fifth meeting, Waishington,
Board's intention to review the effectiveness    September 24, 1992
of ESAF programs and examine the options           The Development Committee held its 45th
and operational modalities of a possible suc-    meeting in Washington, DC on September 24.
cessor facility. They urged that this work be    1992. The Committee selected His Excellency
completed in good time before November    Ricardo  Hausmann, Minister of State  of
1993. They welcomed the Bank's assurance    CORDIPLAN. of Venezuela, as chairman.
that the current capital base of the IBRD is
sufficient to sustain and enhance the volume of    Fort y-sixth mneeting, Washington,
lending to existing borrowing members, while    M(ly 1, 1993
providing substantial support for the economic     1. The Development Committee held its
reform and adjustment efforts of the countries    46th meeting in Washington DC on May 1.
of the former Soviet Union. Ministers agreed    1993. under the chairmanship of Dr. Ricardo
to review the effectiveness of the Bank's lend-    Hausmann of Venezuela.' The Committee re-
ing at a future meeting.                         corded its deep regret at the violent death of
12. ENVIRONMENT. Ministers welcomed    President Ranasinghe Premadasa and sent its
the wide-ranging consensus reached at the    condolences to the Government and people of
United Nations Conference on Environment    Sri Lanka.
and Development. They recognized the ongo-         2. The Committee devoted most of this
ing financing needs associated with Agenda 21.    meeting to an examination of ways of encour-
They also noted that UNCED called for addi-   aging private capital flows, as part of its ongo-
tional funding to be channeled through existing    ing review  of the transfer of resources to
institutions. including the Global Environment    developing countries.' The Committee reaf-
Facility, which will be restructured on lines to   firms its belief that a high level of investment in
be agreed by the participants. Ministers urged    the private sector is important to sustainable
the World Bank to play a full part in carrying    economic growth in developing countries. It
forward the results of UNCED in collaboration    recognizes that the majority of this investment
with other agencies in the UN system and to    comes from these countries' domestic savings.
the regional banks, and to report progress to    Private foreign flows and official development
the Committee at its meeting in September    assistance have a complementary but crucial
1993.                                           role to play. Private foreign flows have been
13. DROUGHT. FAMINE  AND  WAR.    largely concentrated in a small number of
The Committee noted with great concern the    countries. The challenge before the interna-
problems of drought in Southern and Eastern    tional community now is to enlarge this num-
Africa, the severe famine in Somalia, wide-    ber as quickly as possible.
spread flooding in the Indian subcontinent and     3. The Committee notes that host countries
the problems of several war-affected countries.    have the primary responsibility for creating an
They welcomed the coordinated international    environment attractive to foreign investors.
action now under way to alleviate suffering in    This will require a stable political climate and
many of these areas, and called for the active    sound macroeconomic policies; a healthy, vig-
cooperation of all governments and agencies
concerned, both to overcome the immediate         Dr. Hausmann is the Minister of State and the Head of
problems and to lay the foundations for future    CORDIPLAN in Venezuela. Mr. Lewis Preston. President
and development,              ~~~of the WAorld Bank. Mr. Michel Camdessus, Managing
recovery and development.                         Director of the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Moham-
14. DEPARTURE OF CHAIRMAN. The                 med Imady, Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade of
Committee placed on record its special appre-     Syria and Chairman of the Grouip of 24. and Mr. Peter
ciation of the distinguished record of Mr. Ale-   Mountfield, Fxecutive Secretarv, took part in the meeting.
jandr   Foxey dringhis two years as its     Observers from a numiber of international and regional
jandro Foxley during his two years as its         organizations also attended.
Chairman.                                         For the purpose of this communiqud the phrase develop-
15. SPRING  MEETING. The Committee             ing countries" includes economies in transition.



246   IBRD/IDA Appendices
Development Committee                                                   Appendix 5
Communiques, Fiscal 1993 (continueci
orous and competitive domestic private sector:   The Committee calls on both industrial and
a legal and institutional framework which en-   developing countries to speed up the removal
courages investment without discrimination; a    of the remaining regulatory and other impedi-
liberal exchange regime; a flexible labor mar-   ments to portfolio flows. particularly by facil-
ket: improved management capacity in the   itating the greater participation of institutional
public sector: and provision of the necessary   investors.
physical and human infrastructure. Prompt      7. BOND MARKETS. The Committee also
servicing of debt will reassure investors. Re-   welcomes the reform efforts made by several
duction of the debt overhang, where appropri-   developing countries. These have restored
ate, for reforming countries, will also help.   confidence and allowed them to enter or regain
Because much investment in developing coun-   access to the international market for bonds
tries is in export industries, open world mar-   and other financial instruments. It encourages
kets are essential. Once these measures are in   the governments of 'source" countries to re-
place, which may take time in some countries,   view  and address the remaining obstacles
funds will tend to flow naturally to profitable    which prevent access to their securities mar-
ventures.                                    kets bv creditworthy developing countrv bor-
4. Where unnecessary institutional and reg-   rowers.
ulatory barriers to the supply of such funds   8. COMMERCIAL BANK LENDING. The
remain, the Committee calls on the industrial   Committee recognizes that commercial bank
countries and the international financial insti-   lending is not always a suitable form of long-
tutions to do all they can to remove them, and   term development finance, or available or ap-
to catalyze greater volumes of investment. The    propriate for countries facing severe balance-
IFC in particular can help by doing more to   of-payments deficits. However. the successful
support investments in poorer countries with   resolution of the debt problems of many mid-
less access to private capital.              dle-income developing countries has permitted
5. FOREIGN  DIRECT  INVESTMENT.   a small increase in commercial bank lending.
The Committee believes that FDI is the most   The Committee encourages industrial coun-
valuable form of private external finance, since   tries which have not already done so to review
it brings with it access to the technical know-   their regulatory mechanisms and requirements
how, managerial expertise and wider markets   regularly, and in doing so to examine the scope
of the industrial countries. Because it moves in   for easing constraints on trade and project
response to perceived market needs. it is much   finance to developing countries. without weak-
more efficient than state-directed capital flows.   ening proper prudential supervision. It notes
It poses less risk to the host country's fiscal or   the role of the World Bank's Enhanced Cofi-
balance of payments position. The Committee    nancing program in supporting lending.
welcomes the action taken by most host coun-   9. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT.
tries to attract FDI, by reducing discrimination    The Committee also reviewed a related report
against foreign investors. It also calls on the    by the World Bank Group on its private sector
industrial countries and the international insti-   development strategy which also helps to at-
tutions to play their part by providing technical   tract more foreign investment. It welcomes the
assistance, investment sector lending, fuller   emergence of a new  generation of loans
information, guarantees and where appropriate   through which the World Bank supports pol-
financial support.                           icy, regulatory and legal reforms directed at
6. PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT. The Com-   improving  the day-to-day  environment in
mittee welcomes the sharp increase in portfolio    which firms operate. It commends the work
investment in equities and bonds in several   already done or in hand. while calling on the
developing countries in recent years. Foreign    Bank Group as a whole to make even greater
portfolio investment will add flexibility and    progress by promoting small and medium-scale
depth to domestic capital markets. These mar-   industry  and  the  entrepreneurial role of
kets should be expanded further. The Bank    women, in encouraging the private sector in
Group and the Fund should provide continuing    developing countries, especially the poorest,
support for market development, through pol-   and in supporting the necessary underpinning
icy advice, finance and technical assistance.   public sector reforms.



Appendix 5    247
10. OFFICIAL  FLOWS. The Committee    of assistance. Ministers commended the World
recognizes that, for poorer countries and those    Bank's effort to undertake a frank and critical
presently unable to attract sufficient private   self-evaluation of its project performance, and
capital, official development assistance re-   stressed the importance of a vigorous action
mains essential. It therefore welcomes the    program. They also urged all development
completion of the IDA-10 negotiations, and    agencies which have not already done so to
calls on the donor countries to complete the    undertake similar efforts to improve the devel-
ratification process, so that there is no disrup-    opment impact of their assistance, and to con-
tion to commitments. It also calls on the Bank    centrate aid operations on the poorest coun-
to increase further the focus on poverty reduc-   tries and  those  where aid  can  be most
tion and environmentally sustainable develop-    effective.
ment. It welcomes the rapid progress in con-     11. TRADE. The Committee records its in-
sidering  the  operational modalities for a    creasing concern about the continued delays
successor to the ESAF, the Fund's conces-   and risk of breakdown in the Uruguay Round
sional facility for its poorer members: it urges    negotiations. Failure could easily lead, not to
that this work be completed by November    continuation of the status quo, but to a down-
1993. and calls on the Fund to explore all    ward spiral of increasing protectionism. This
options for funding. It also notes that a review  would be extremely serious for the growth of
of the pilot phase, discussions on restructur-   the world economy and particularly for the
ing. and negotiations for the replenishment of   developing countries. leading to a progressive
the Global Environment Facility are about to   reduction in the markets for their exports and a
commence; it agrees on the importance of a    consequent fall in the living standards of their
productive outcome by December 1993. It   citizens. It would weaken the developing coun-
notes that other negotiations are in hand to   tries' resolve to liberalize trade further, and to
replenish the concessional funds of other mul-   undertake structural reforms. On the other
tilateral agencies, and hopes they can be con-    hand, an eariv agreement will benefit all coun-
cluded as soon as possible. It calls on industrial   tries. The Committee asked that all countries
countries to consider further ways of increas-   firmly resist protectionist pressures. It calls on
ing flows of officially supported export fi-   all the parties for a prompt and successful
nance. Finally, it points to the continued stag-    conclusion to the Round by the end of 1993.
nation  in  flows  of official development    and its early implementation.
assistance, despite the increased needs, and     12. NEXT  MEETING. The  Committee
invites donor countries to do their best to    agreed to meet again in Washington DC on
increase their aid as circumstances permit.   September 27, 1993, when it will concentrate
particularly where it still falls short of 0.7   its discussion on two topics: long-term social
percent of GNP. Ministers also underscored    policy reforms and short-term safety nets: and
the critical importance of ODA achieving its   adjustment experience in low-income coun-
intended developmental impact. They called    tries and their financing needs. It will also
on all donors and recipients to strengthen    review action taken. or in hand, to follow up
efforts to improve the quality and effectiveness   the suggestions made at today's meeting.



248
Index
Abuja Treatv. 36                                     Commodities. primary, price movements in 1992, 25.
Adjustment lending. 13 (/dcbI,. 15. 19, 38             33-35. 107, 108 (box)
Africa region                                        Consultative group meetings chaired by the World
agriculture s critical role in, 109-10               Bank. 20 (raloc)
cotton crisis in the Sahel. 108 (bar)              Consultative Group on International Agricultural
debt difficulties in, 106                            Research (CGIAR). activities in fiscal 1993. 97-99
effects of drought on. 106
economic performance in 1992, 30. 105-06           Debt. Sec oh.so Paris Club
environmental strategy for the Sahelian region.      debt and debt-service reduction operations. 30-32
46-47                                              debt management in the Middle East and North
project implementation in, 112                         Africa. 141
regional economic integration. 36                    developments in Latin America. 132
special program  of assistance (SPA). 72. 107.       developments in sub-Saharan Africa, 106
111-12                                             overall developments in 1992. 25. 30-32
World Bank agricultural strategy. I 10-1 I           restructuring agreements. 31-32, 132
World Bank lending strategy, Ill                     World Bank advice on external-debt management,
African Development Bank. World Bank cooper-             72-73
ation with. 97                                     Debt-reduction Facility for IDA-only Countries. 15-
Agenda 21. 7. 51                                       16. 32. 72-73
Algeria                                              Developing countries, growth in 1992. 25. 28-30
economic performance in, 138                       Disbursements. See International Bank for Recon-
reform program, 139                                  struction and Development: International Devel-
Asian Development Bank. World Bank cooperation         opment Association: International Finance Corpo-
with. 97                                             ration: World Bank
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),    1)isbursements, bv source of supply, 73-83 (oabes),
36. 114-15                                           79. 83-84
Dublin Statement, 7. 50
Bangladesh
fiscal refoims in. 121. 122                        East Asia and Pacific region
judicial reform in. 53                               economic performance in 1992. 29. 113
poverty-reduction efforts, 122-23                    island economies special constraints. 117
middle-income countries economic performance.
Caribbean Development Bank. World Bank cooper-            116-17
ation with. 97                                       refolrm agenda facing the region, 113-16
Central and Eastern Europe                             regional integration through ASEAN, 114-15
environmental-action program for. 46                 socialist economies in transition. 116
privatization programs. 128                          World Bank operational strategy. 118
transition towards a market economy. 126-27        Economic Development Institute (EDI)
China                                                  activities in fiscal 1993. 87-89. 87 (fablh)
economic performance in 1992. 29. 116                activities in the former Soviet Union, 87-88
widening reforms in, 116                             Joint Vienna Institute. 89
Cofinancing                                            McNamara Fellowship Program. 89
ECO (expanded cofinancing operations) program.       publicaitions progrim. 89
72                                                 support for privatization in Tanzania, 88
EXCEL (export-credit enhanced leverage) pro-         support (or transition in South Africa. 88
gram, 72                                           support for transition in Viet Nam. 88
PHRD (policy and human-resources development)        strengthening institutional capacity in Latin Amer-
fund, 79                                             ica, 89
special program  of assistance (SPA). 72. 107.       training programs for nongovernmental organiza-
111-12                                               tions. 89. 96
trLst-fund arrangements. 79                          World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program. 89
volume, fiscal 1993, 70-73, 71 (tobl/c             Ecuador. addjustment program in. 133-34
Commission of the European Communities. World        Education. See Human-resource development
Bank cooperation with, 9h                          "Enhanced  Toronto terms. 7-8. 32



Index    249
Environment                                               consideration of the report of the Task Force on
Baltic Sea Environment Program. 47                        Portfolio Management, 19. 62
electric power sector, the World Bank's role in. 49     country-atssistance strategy reviews. 19
(box.)                                                discussion of the annual environmental report. 19
energy efficiencv and conservation, the World           emergency assistance to Somalia. 19-20
Bank's role in. 49 (ho.x,                             examination of the IBRD   negative-pledge policy
environmental-action plans, 12, 47                        with respect to investment lending. 19. 66
environmental assessments, first review of. 19. 48      involvement with the Development Committee, 21
Environmental Program for the Danube River Ba-          Joint Audit Committee, 21-22
sin, 47                                               review of financial-sector operations. 18
evaluation of environmental performance of com-         review of staff benefits. 21
pleted projects, 50. 51                               Sardar Sarovar (Narmada Projects). rev iew of. 19
Global Environment Facility (GEF). 51-52. 96            Steerinig Committee. 24
Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assis-
tance Program (METAP). 47, 143                      Foreign direct investment
Program for Environmental Management and Pro-          (lows in 1992. 25. 33
tection of the Black Sea. 47                          report on the legal framework for the treatment of
resettlement. analysis of projects with resettle-         foreign investment. 19
ment components, 12. 50                             Foreign Investment Advisory Service, 8. 19. 53, 102.
Sardar Sarovar (Narmada) Projects, review of. 19,       1(3t-04
48
water-resources management. World Bank policy         Global Environment Facility GEF). See Environment
towards. 50 (boy)                                  Guatemala. ad justment program in. 133
World Bank environmental lending operations.          Hn
fiscal 1993. 47-48                                 Honduras. health and nutrtion project. 44
World Bank research program on. 91                    Housing policy. 54-56
World Bank strategy in the Africa region, 46-47       Houston terms. 8. 32
World Bank strategy in Asia, 45-46                    Hunian-resouice development iHRD)
World Bank strategy in Central and Eastern Eu-         importance of educating women. 44
rope, 46                                             investing in health, 46 (b1o)
World Bank strategy in the Mliddle East and North       safe-motherhood projects. 44
Africa region. 142                                    Woild Bank HRD research. 90-91
World Bank lending for education prolects. 39
Estonia, reforms in. 130                                    (loeb. 43
Europe and Central Asia region                            World Bank lending for health, 44
country membership. 125                                 World Bank lending for HRD. 13-14. 38. 39
economic performance in 1992, 30, 126-28                 ({bloNe). 425. 4.3 I(bo
increased World Bank staff for, 100                     World Bank lending for nutrition. 44
inflation in the ruble area. 127-28                     World Bank lending for population. health, and
portfolio performance. 13 1                               nutrition projects. 39 (lobl/). 43
priviite-sector activity, 126                           World Bank lending for population projects and
privatization and enterprise reform. 128                  population components, 43-44
World Bank operations in fiscal 1993. IS. 1Woirld Biank support foir women-in-development
131                                                    activities, 44-45
World Bank strategy in. 14. 130-31
European Bank for Reconstruction a nd De elop-          India
ment. World Bank cooperation with. 97                   economic performa nce in 1992. 29. 120
Executive directors                                       forestrs activities in. 123
Ad Hoc Committee oin Boaid Procedures, 23               poverty-reduction efforts. 123
allocation of fiscal 1992 net income. I(                reform measures undertaken. 120-21
approval of the IDA-10 final report, 18               Indonesia
approval of the single-currency loan pilot pro-         economic performance in. 117
granm. 18                                             fimancial-sector i'eform in. 55 (bo.x/
budget-piocess activities, 17                           poverty-assessment update for. 38 (boi)
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and  Budget    Industrialized countries
Practices. 22                                        economic performance of the G-7 countries in
Committee on Directors' Administrative                    (992. 26. 27 (job/), 28
Matters. 23                                          economic  performance of OECD  countries in
Committee on Personnel Policy Issues, 22                  1992. 25-26
consideration of the 'Annual Report on Portfolio    Institutional Development Fund. Sec Technical as-
Performance.' 18                                     sistance
consideration of housing policy. 56                   Inter-American De%elopment Bank
consideration of the Operations Evaluation De-          cofinancing in Latin Americi. 72
partment's activities, 18                             cofinancing with the World Bank. 97
consideration of the progress report on poserty         World Bank cooperation with. 97
reduction. 19                                      Internal Auditing Department. activities in fiscal
consideration of provisioning requirements, 18          1993. 86-87



250    Index
International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-       regional integration, 133
ment (IBRD)                                            trends in income distribution and poverty, 136
assistance to the poorest countries. 15 (char          (boxr)
borrowings and liability management, 67, 69-70       World Bank operational strategy, 137
borrowings in fiscal 1993. 16. 67, 68-69 (zobles).
69-70                                           Madagascar, Food Security and Nutrition Project, 44
commitments in fiscal 1993. 15                     Malaysia. economic performance in, 116-17
disbursements in fiscal 1993. 15. 66               Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance
interest waivers. 67                                 Program (METAP). See Environment
lending rate, 66                                   MERCOSUR, 36, 133
liquid-assets management. 67                       Middle East and North Africa region
loans in nonaccrual, 67                              economic performance in 1992, 29-30, 138. 139
membership, 16                                         (table)
negative-pledge policy with respect to lending       external-debt management in, 141
for investment prOlects. 19, 66 (box)              need for private-sector stimulation, 141
provisioning policy, 18. 65                          need for public-sector reform, 141
reserves ratio target, 65-66                         population growth in. 140. 141 (table)
single-currency loan pilot program, 18, 65           portfolio management, 144
International Centre for Settlement of Invest-           social indicators in. 141-42
ment Disputes (ICSID). activities in fiscal            unemployment in. 140
1993, 104                                              World  Bank cooperation  with the Multilateral
International Development Association (IDA)                Working Group on Regional Economic Develop-
assistance to the poorest countries, 15 (ch/art)         ment. 143
commitment authority, fiscal 1993, 70                  World Bank operational strategy, 142-43
commitments in fiscal 1993. 15, 70                   Mongolia, economic performance in, 116
contributions by donors to the tenth replenish-    Morocco
ment. 58 (table)                                     economic performance in, 138. 141
disbursements in fiscal 1993. 15                       reform efforts in. 138
IDA-10, allocation of resources, by sector, 59       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
IDA-10. criteria for allocation of resources. 57. 59   activities in fiscal 1993. 103-04
IDA-10, objectives of. 57                              membership. 103
IDA-10 report, approval by the executive direc-    Multilateral Working Group on Regional Economic
tors, 18                                             Development. 143
membership. 16
portfolio management. 60                             Net transfers
International Finance Corporation (IFC)                  long-term aggregate net transfers. 32, 32 (table)
activities in fiscal 1993. 1014-3                      to Africa, Ill (table)
advisory operations, 102                               to East Asia and Pacific, 117 (table)
disbursements, 102                                     to Europe and Central Asia, 129 (table)
financial performance in fiscal 1993, 102              to Latin America and the Caribbean, 137 (taible)
membership in. 102                                    to Middle East and North Africa, 143 (table)
selective capital increase, 103                        to South Asia. 123 (table)
International Fund for Agricultural Development,    NGO-World Bank Committee. See nongovernmen-
cooperation with the World Bank. 94                   tal organizations
Iran. reform program in. 138                           Nigeria. economic performance in. 109
Nongovernmental organizations
Japan                                                    Economic Development Institute support for. 96
cofinancing of World Bank projects. 71-72              NGO-World Bank Committee, 96
special fund for policy and human-resource devel-      participation in poverty-reduction projects, 39
opment (PHRD fund). 79                               World Bank involvement with, 94-96. 95 (table)
Joint Vienna Institute. See Economic Development    North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA),
Institute                                              133
Jordan. economic performance in, 139
Official development assistance (ODA). flows in
Korea. economic performance in. 116                      1992, 32 (table) 33
Operations Evaluation Department
Lao People's Democratic Republic. economic per-          activities in fiscal 1993, 85-86
formance in. 116                                       enhanced role in portfolio management. 63-64
Latin America and the Caribbean region                   evaluation of environmental performance of com-
adjustment programs in. 133-34                           pleted projects, 50-51
capital flows into, 133                                executive director's oversight of. 18
debt agreements reached, 132                           measuring development effectiveness. 61 (box), 86
economic performance in 1992, 30. 132                  studies published in fiscal 1993, 86
EDI support for institution building in, 89            support for evaluation in borrower countries. 86
environmental concerns, 135-36                       Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Devel-
need for infrastructure investments, 136               opment (OECD), World Bank cooperation with,
portfolio management in, 137                           96-97



Index    251
Pacific island countries, development challenges in,   research on the environment and natural re-
117                                                    sources. 91
Pakistan                                               research on human-resource development, 45.
economic performance in, 120                           90-91
private investment in, 122                           research on infrastructure and urban develop-
social-action plan. 122                                ment. 91
Papua New Guinea, economic performance in, 117         research on macroeconomic issues and manage-
Paris Club                                               ment. 91
agreements with Argentina and Brazil. 132            research on poverty reduction, 90
reschedulings on "enhanced' Toronto terms, 32      Russia
Philippines                                            mass-privatization program. 14. 53. 130
Board of Investments. 53                             price liberalization in. 30, 129
economic performance in, 117                         project to rehabilitate oil-producing operations,
poverty-assessment update for, 38 (hoxo                131
Poland, reforms in. 129                                reforms in, 129-30
Population, health, and nutrition. See Human-
resource development                               Single-currency loan pilot program. See Interna-
Portfolio management                                   tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development
actions to strengthen portfolio management. 14.    Somalia
60-63                                              emergency assistance to. 19-20
"Annual Report on Portfolio Management." 18. 63      special circumstances in. 108
(box)                                            South Africa
closing skill gaps, 64                               Economic Development Institute activities in, 88
enhancing the role of the Operations Evaluation      World Bank activities in, 108
Department. 63-64                                South Asia
executive directors' discussions on. 19. 62          economic performance in, 119
in the Africa region, 112                            economic reforms in, 119-22
in the Europe and Central Asia region, 131           environmental challenges. 123-24
in the Latin America and the Caribbean region. 137   portfolio management in. 124
in the Middle East and North Africa region, 144      poverty-reduction strategies in. 122-23
in the South Asia region. 124                        privatization efforts in, 122
measures of portfolio performance. 60-61             World Bank operational strategy, 124
strengthening IDA's project portfolio, 60            World Bank operations. fiscal 1993, 124
Poverty assessments. 11-12, 37. 38 (bhx)             Special program  of assistance (SPA). See Africa
Poverty reduction                                      region
and adjustment lending. 38                         Tanzania, EDI seminar on parastatal reform  and
and beneficiary participation, 38-39                 privatization. 88
beneficiary assessments, 39                        Technical assistance
poverty assessments, 11-12. 37. 38 (bos)             cooperation with the UNDP. 93
program of targeted interventions (PTI). 38. 40-41   handbook published, 93
(tables                                            implementation of task-force recommendations
progress report on.  1, 19, 37                         on, 92-93
World Bank research on, 90                           Institutional Development Fund, 93
World Bank strategy to reduce poverty, 11-12, 37     support for local consultants. 93
Private-sector development                             World Bank activities in 1992, 92-93
financial-sector reform, 54                        Thailand, economic performance in, 117
improving the business environment. 52             Trade, world
in Europe and Central Asia, 128-30                   developments in Uruguav Round negotiations. 36
in South Asia. 121-22                                movements in volume and value in 1992, 25. 35
private-sector assessments. 14. 52                     (table), 35-36
promotion of public-sector restructuring, 52         regional trading arrangements, 36, 114-15. 133
World Bank lending in support of public-sector    Trust funds. 79
restructuring and privatization, 14, 53          Ttinisia, economic performance in, 138. 141
Privatization
in the Europe and Central Asia region, 128-30      United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
in the South Asia region. 122                        cooperation with the World Bank in capacity
Russia's mass privatization program. 14. 53, 130       building. 94
World Bank support for, 14, 53. 73                   cooperation with the World Bank in technical
Program of targeted inteiventions (PTI). See Poverty     assistance, 93
reduction
Provisioning policy. See International Bank for Re-    Viet Nam. Economic Development Institute activi-
construction and Development                         ties in. 88
Research program of the World Bank                   Women in development. See Human-resource devel-
annual Conference on Development Economics.          opment
91-92                                            World Bank
priorities of, 90                                    adjustment lending in fiscal 1993, 13 (table), 15. 19
assistance to the poorest countries, 15 (clhart)



252    Index
budget for fiscal 1993. 17. 99. 100 (tolhlej        membership. 16
commitments in fiscal 1993. 15                      organizational changes. 14, 42. 45. 99
cooperation with the Commission of the European     personnel. 99
Communities, 96                                   rehabilitation of the main complex. 101
coopermtion with the International Fund for Agri-    World Deivelopment Report 1990. 37
cultural Development (IFAD), 94                 World Development Report /992. 12
cooperation with the Organisation for Economic    World Development Report /993, 46 (bo.x).
Co-operation and Development (OECD), 96           93-94
cooperation with regional development banks. 97   Yemen, economic performance in. 139
cooperation with various United Nations agen-
cies. 93-94                                     Zambia, Social Recovery Project. 39
disbursements in fiscal 1993. 15


















The World Bank
Headquarters
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Telephone: (202) 477-1234
Facsimile: (202) 477-6391
Telex: WUI 64145 WORLDBANK
RCA 248423 WORLDBK
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTONDC
European Office
66, avenue d'Iena
75116 Paris, France
Telephone: (1) 40.69.30.00
Facsimile: (1) 40.69.30.66
Telex: 640651
Tokyo Office
Kokusai Building
1-1, Marunouchi 3-chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan
Telephone: (3) 3214-5001
Facsimile: (3) 3214-3657
Telex: 26838
ISBN 0-8213-2490-X



