10912
INTERNATIONAL
BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
NINTH ANNUAL REPORT
1953-1954
a"



K. S. Venkatraman



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPPIENT
Supplement to the
NINTH ANNUAL REPORT
A Summary of Developments in the Bank
from
July 1 to September 20, 1954
MEMBERSHIP AND SUBSCRIPTION
Israel became a member of the Bank on July 12. Its subscription to the
Bank's capital stock is 45 shares with a total par value of $4,500,000. The Bank
now has 57 members and total subscribed capital of $9,153,000,000.
THE BANK'S OPERATIONS
Summary of Lending
Since the end of the fiscal year, the Bank has made three loans, in Ceylon,
Austria and Mexico, for an amount equivalent to $92,110,000, bringing total
coimmitments to $2,oo6,558,464 for 107 loans in 36 countries.
Austria
On July 19 the Bank made its first loan in Austria for the Reisseck-Kreuzeck
hydroelectric project described on pages 21-22 of the Ninth Annual Report, The
loan will consist of European currencies equivalent to $12 million. It is
expected that about half the loan will be disbursed in Italian lire and about half
in Swiss francs.  Italian lire in the amount of approximately 3,750 million will be
provided out of Italy's subscription to the Bank's capital; and some 26 million
Swiss francs required to cover the balance of the loan will be drawn from the
proceeds of the Bank's sales of its bonds in Switzerland.  The co-borrowers are
the Draukraftwerke (Drau River Power Company) and the Verbundgesellschaft
(Austrian Electric Power Corporation), which as part of its national power network
controls the operations of the Draukraftwerke.
The loan is for a term of 25 years and bears interest of 4-3/4% per annum.
Amortization will begin in July 1959.



-2-
Ceylon
On July 9 the Bank signed the Loan Agreement for a loan of d19,110,000 to
Ceylon to help finance the Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectric scheme which w4ill
supply additional power to southwestern Ceylon. The project is described on page
13 of the Ninth Annual Report. The loan is for a term of 25 years and bears
interest of 4-3/4%o per annum. Amortization will begin in January 1959.
Mexico
On August 24 the Bank made a loan of $61 million to the Pacific Railroad of
Mexico for equipment needed for a program to rehabilitate and modernize the railroad
Two United States commercial banks are participating in the loan, without
the International Bankts guarantee, to the extent of $2,420,000.  The Bank of
the Manhattan Company is purchasing $1,000,000 of the first maturity; and the
Chemical Bank & Trust Company is purchasing $1,420,000 of the loan - the $210,000
remaining of the first maturity and all the second maturity of $1,210,000.
The Pacific Railroad serves the northwest coast of Mexico and traverses one
of Mexico's most rapidly growing and important agricultural areas. The re-
habilitation and modernization program is being undertaken so that the Railroad
will be able to keep pace with the increasing demands of the region.
The Bank's loan will pay for the purchase abroad of 33 diesel locomotives for
all-purpose use; 31 diesel locomotives for light service; 684 freight cars; four
million railroad ties; 170,000 short tons of rail to re-lay about 1,000 miles of
track; other track material, and communications and shop equipment. Part of this
equipment has already been imported or ordered. It is estimated that the entire
program will cost the equivalent of about $80 million and will take four years to
complete.
In addition to the rehabilitation of its physical facilities, important
changes are being made in the administration and operation of the Railroad.  Also,
the Railroad has retained the engineering firm of Coverdale & Colpitts, on whose
survey the program is based, to assist in the execution of the rehabilitation



f    )
-3-
program.
The loan is for a term of 15 years and bears interest of 4-5/8% per annum.
Amortization will begin in June 1959.
The discussions between the Mexican Light and Power Company (Mexlight)
mentioned on page 34 of the Annual Report have resulted in a rate adjustment for
Mexlight. The Government has awarded the Company a 21-1/2% increase of power rates
effective in October 1954 as an interim measure to compensate for the effect of the
devaluation of the peso and of recent wage increases on Mexlight's financial
position. A final adjustment is expected to be made in the near future.
Netherlands
On August 12 the Government of the Netherlands prepaid $52,215,000 and
12,498,200 Belgian francs on the 25-year loan it received from the Bank on
August 7, 1947. The prepayment covers the longest maturities on the loan, those
falling due in 1970, 1971 and 1972. Originally, the loan amounted to $195 million
of which $190,362,000 was outstanding at the time of the prepayment. As a result
of the prepayment the outstanding balance was reduced to $137,861,000.
On September 14 the KLM Royal Dutch Airlines refinanced with The Chase
National Bank of the City of New York and National City Bank of New York the
balance of $5.6 million due on a $7 million loan made in March 1952 by the
International Bank. The two New York banks are each refinancing $2.8 million,
repayable in semi-annual instalments over a period of four years, with the first
instalment due January 1, 1955.
FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESOURCES
New Bond Issues
Since the end of the fiscal year, three new bond issues have been sold by
the Bank. They totaled the equivalent of $7h.5 million and brought the total of
bonds outstanding to $851 million.



4
A oublic of'fering in the Netherlands, made on July 20, was the first issue of
guilder bonds of the Bank.  It consisted of Fl.40 million (equal to aoproximately
$10O5 million) of 3-% fifteen year bonds.  The issue was offered to the public at
par by an underwTriting syndicate of 14 Dutch banks headed by the Nletherlands
Trading Society (Nederlandsche Handel-Maatschappij, N.V.).
A sterling issue of TL5 million (equal to approximately $14 million) 3-% stock
(1969/74) Was acquired by a group of London banking firms which offered the stock
to the oublic at 98% on July 21.  The firns were Baring Brothers & Co. TLimited,
Hambros Bank Limited, Lazard Brothers & Co., Limited, Morgan Grenfell & Co.,
Limited, N. M'. Rothschild & Sons and J. Henry Schroder & Co.  This was the second
issue made by the Bank in the United Kingdom. The first consisted of :5 million
3-% 20-year stock, and was offered to the public in May 1951 by the same group.
On September 20, the Bank placed a   50 million issue of United States dollar
bonds with investors in 23 countries outside the United States. This was the
first private placement of direct dollar obligations of the Bank.  The issue is
known as the Five Year Bonds of 1954; interest is at 2N% a year.  The principal
agents for the Bank in the transaction were Morgan Stanley & Cc. and The First
Boston Corooration.  N1o underwriting arrangements were involved in the placement
of the issue.
Sales of Bonds from the Bank's Portfolio
Since June 30, the Bank has sold the equivalent of $18.8 million principal
amount of borrowers' obligations.  Of thnis amount, 0345,000 were sold wTith, and
$185. million without, the Bank's guarantee.  These sales brought the total of
bonds sold from the Bank's portfolio to t123.7 million, including i.8 million of
rarticipations, without the Bank's guarantee, by several srivate banks in loans
which are not yet effective. Of thLis total, $58.1 million have been sold with,
and $65.6 million without, the Bank's guarantee.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
NINTH ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
1953 - 1954
WASHINGTON 25, D.
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.



A



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
September 24, 1954
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have been authorized by
the Executive Directors to submit to the Board of Governors this Ninth
Annual Report of the Bank. The report includes financial statements as
of June 30, 1954, based on an audit of the accounts of the Bank made
pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws. It also incorporates, pursuant
to Section 19 of the By-Laws, an administrative budget for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1955.
The report covers the Bank's activities for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 1953 and ending June 30, 1954.
Sincerely yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President.
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.






CONTENTS
Page
Summary-THE BANK'S YEAR IN REVIEW ................................    1
Chapter I-COLLABORATION IN PROJECT PREPARATION
AND   EXECUTION   .....................................................                      4
Economic  Appraisal  ..................................................                   5
Preparation  and  Planning ............................................                  5
Domestic  Currency  Requirements ................................                        6
Administration   and   Management ................................                       7
Continuing  Relationship  with   Borrowers ....................                          8
Security Arrangements ................................................                   8
The  Bank's  Objectives ................................................                 9
Chapter II-THE  BANK'S OPERATIONS ........................................   11
Asia  ......................................................                            13
The  Middle  East ......................................................                16
Africa        ..........................         ............................           18
Australasia   ......................................            ................       2 1
Europe  .....................................................                          21
Western   Hemisphere   ................................................                 28
Chapter III-FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESOURCES ..............  38
Earnings, Reserves and Repayments                                 . .                  38
Funds  Available  for  Lending ......................................                  38
Disbursements ......................................................                   42
Chapter IV-MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION ....................  43
Organization  and  Personnel ........................................                  43
Training  Programs  ....................................................               43
Staff  Retirement Plan ..................................................              43
Administrative Budget ......................... .                                      -d3
Chapter V-MISCELLANEOUS  ......................................................                                44
Relations with Other International Organizations ...   44
International Finance Corporation ...............................         .            44
Membership and Subscriptions                                  .          .             45
APPENDICES   ...............                       ............................             47






GROWTH OF THE BANK
(CUMULATIVE TOTALS EXPRESSED IN MILLIONS OF U.S. DOLLARS)
2,000                                                                    2,000
1,800                                                                    1,800
1,600                                                                    1,600
LOAN COMMITMENTS
(NET OF CANCELLATIONS AND REFUNDINGS)
1,400                                     1] /,400
A/               t.~/
1,200                              -/---  1,200
GROSS 
DISBURSEMENTS . *
1,000                                                                   /60
800
600        }                   -              e                      .'/ 0
400       /lip
200 ~ ~ oO   01
0~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                              -8
400                                  7                                       ..........................  < . 60
/   /   /    /   ..................   /* OBLIGATIONS  OF
t *8S,//  .................00..... t         BORROWERS _40
200         <           /....... ..           . ........... I/ ,.I   SOLD BY BANK  120
RPAYMENTS OF
PRINCIPAL TO BANK
0                   L----~   aao-0
1947     1948     1949      1950     1951      1952     1953     1954
FISCAL YEARS ENDING JUNE 30
*Net income appropriated to Supplemental Reserve, and commissions appropriated to Special Reserve






Summary-The Bank's Year In Review
Lending Operations                            assisted by loans to a private pulp and paper
Twenty-six loans in 16 countries were signed    company in Chile and to a credit institution in-
during the fiscal year. The sum lent amounted    tended to foster private manufacturing enterprise
to $324 million, representing the highest reached    in Turkey.
in any fiscal year. By the end of the year the     The Bank also made loans concerned with
Bank had made 104 loans, bringing the total of    more than one sector of the economy of the recip-
Bank funds committed to $1,914 million in 34    ient country. Loans of this kind will help trans-
countries. The total of effective loans outstand-    port, agriculture and industry in Australia and
ing and held by the Bank on June 30 amounted    a 12-year program for the development of south-
to $1,663 million.                            ern Italy.
The greater part of the year's lending was    Disbursements
for improvements in basic services. The surm
of $119 million was lent for transport. Loans      The Bank disbursed the equivalent of $302
were made for railroad programs in Brazil, French    million on new and existing loans during the
West Africa and South Africa. Better highways    year, bringing total disbursements to $1,406 mil-
will be provided in Colombia, Ecuador and Nicar-   lion.
agua. A contribution to the improvement of         With  the  steady  improvement in  the
maritime transport will result from  a loan to   supply position in Europe, disbursements which
Norway in connection with purchases of new    borrowers spent in Europe increased from the
vessels for the merchant marine, and from addi-   equivalent of $68 million in 1952-53 to $115
tional funds for a port development program in    million during the year under review.
Turkey. Transatlantic air transport will benefit   At the same time, the growing importance
under a loan for a radio transmitter building in    of the Bank's operations in currencies other than
Iceland. Natural gas, recently discovered in   the United States dollar was shown by the sharp
Pakistan, will be made available as fuel for power   increase, to 27% for the year, in the proportion
generation and industry as a result of a transmis-    of disbursements repayable in such other curren-
sion line to be constructed with the help of Bank    cies. This increase reflected the larger sums made
financing from the gas field to Karachi.      available to the Bank from capital subscriptions
A total of $107 million was lent for the    paid in by member countries in non-dollar cur-
expansion  of electric power facilities. This   rencies and from borrowings outside the United
helped to finance large investment programs in    States.
Japan and South Africa, and included three loans
for hydroelectric and thermal power development    Financial Position
in Brazil. It also included a much smaller sum     The Bank earned a net income of $20 mil-
lent to Nicaragua for the supply of a diesel unit   lion during the year. This was added to a sup-
in Managua.                                   plemental reserve which at the end of the year
Farm output will be helped in Iceland, Pan-    amounted to $97 million. The Special Reserve,
ama and Peru. Industrial production will be   to which the 1%  commission charged on out-
[]I



standing balances of all Bank loans is credited,    drawing up programs of action. The missions
increased by $12 million, reaching a total of $49    went to Malaya, Nigeria and Syria. All three
million. At the end of the year, the Bank's   have finished their field work, and the report of
total reserves stood at $146 million.          the mission to Nigeria is nearing completion.
All service charges and principal repayments    The report of the mission to British Guiana was
due to the Bank and to holders of borrowers' obli-   presented to the Government in August 1953,
gations sold by it were met during the year.   and a program based largely upon the recom-
Repayments of principal, including advance pay-    mendations made has since been adopted.
ments, amounted to $21 million. A total of          The Bank also met requests from a number
$57 million has so far been repaid on all loans    of its member countries for advice on specific
made by the Bank: $17 million to the Bank and    development problems. It examined the possibil-
$40 million on loans sold from portfolio.      ity of setting up financing institutions to assist
The funds available for lending were in-    private enterprise in Ceylon, India and Lebanon,
creased by further releases by various European    and assisted in organizing an Economic Planning
member countries from the 18% capital subscrip-    and Coordination Board in Ecuador. In order
tions paid in their own currencies. The equiv-   to advise on methods of stimulating the growth of
alent of $29 million became available from this   capital markets, the Bank's Director of Market-
source. In addition, $81 million became avail-   ing visited a number of countries including Costa
able subject to certain limitations.           Rica, El Salvador, Panama and the Philippines,
Five bond issues, amounting to the equivalent    and a Bank consultant studied methods of devel-
of $221 million, further added to the Bank's   oping the market for government securities in
resources. Two of the issues were made in United    Ceylon.
States dollars, two in Swiss francs and one in     Advice has been given on a wide range of
Canadian dollars. Nearly half of the new bonds,   problems directly connected with the Bank's lend-
including more than $50 million in United States   ing operations, and in certain cases special studies
dollar bonds, were bought by investors outside    have been initiated on subjects of importance to
the United States. In addition the Bank received    the Bank and its members. The Bank is coop-
payment for an issue of 50 million Swiss francs    erating in an examination undertaken by the
which had been offered in June 1953. At the    Mexican Government of the country's future elec-
end of the year the total of Bank bonds outstand-   tric power needs, and of methods of financing
ing amounted to the equivalent of $777 million.   them.
The Bank's resources were replenished by
sales of borrowers' obligations totaling $22 mil-    Other Developments
lion. In addition, direct participations by private  The membership of the Bank increased from
investors in Bank loans amounted to $12 million.    54 to 56 during the year, bringing total sub-
Of the total increase during the year in funds    scribed capital to the equivalent of $9,149 mil-
made available to the Bank from  all sources,   lion. Haiti became a member in September
39% was obtained within the United States and    1953, and Indonesia in April 1954. Czecho-
61% in other countries.
slovakia was suspended from membership and will
cease to be a member on December 31, 1954, in
Technical Assistance Activities                teasneo  ute  cin
the absence of further action.
The Bank organized three general survey        Engineers of India and Pakistan, together
missions during the year to assist particular coun-    with engineers from the Bank, in September 1953
tries in assessing their economic potential and in   resumed their discussions of technical measures
[21



for increasing the supplies of water from  the    year, and was the subject of additional consulta-
Indus River system for purposes of economic de-    tion between the Bank and various member gov-
velopment.  These discussions continued through-    ernments.  In June 1954 a report was trans-
out the rest of the fiscal year.                  mitted to the Secretary General of the United
Additions were made to the Bank's field rep-    Nations pointing out that the prospects for se-
resentation.  Resident representatives were sta-    curing the necessary capital for the Corporation
tioned in Brazil and Pakistan, and a representative    had not changed during the year, in that the gov-
was stationed in Beirut to maintain contact with
member coLntries in the Middle East.              ernments from which it would have to draw the
The proposal to set up an International Fi-    greater part of its funds were not at present pre-
nance Corporation was further studied during the    pared to commit themselves to subscribe capital.
131



Chapter I-Collaboration in Project Preparation
and Execution
The number of loans made by the Bank,    siders all these aspects before a loan is made. It
now 104, has doubled in the past three years,   continues to be concerned with them throughout
and in that time projects financed by earlier loans    the life of the loan. Where necessary, special
have entered new phases of construction and op-    arrangements mutually acceptable to the Bank and
eration. This has brought a great increase in the    the borrower are made in advance to deal with
amount of work done by the Bank in the appraisal    problems that seem likely to arise in carrying out
of projects, and in assisting the borrower to bring    or operating a project.
them to successful completion and operation.         The Bank seeks to establish a full under-
This chapter discusses briefly the nature and    standing on the substance and needs of a project
extent of the interest of the Bank in the projects    before a loan is made. Where practicable, this
financed. The discussion is intended to illustrate    understanding is reflected in contracts with bor-
how this interest is pursued in the operations of    rowers, in guarantee agreements with govern-
the Bank, and to show how it is reflected in cer-    ments, and in various other written arrangements
tain features of loan contracts and other arrange-    among the parties to the loan. The borrower and,
ments with the parties concerned.               where appropriate, the guarantor, normally agree
The Bank feels it essential that any project   to take the steps necessary to the timely comple-
financed make as large a contribution as possible   tion of the project. There is provision for the
to the productive resources of the economy which    borrower to give the Bank progress reports, and
the loan is designed to strengthen. In a financial   for the Bank to examine the situation that may
sense, a project which fell short of its objectives    exist in the field at any time. Through these chan-
could waste the funds of both the Bank and the    nels, managerial and financial as well as engi-
borrower. In an economic sense. the consequences    neering and other physical problems may be
of poor execution could be more serious still,    brought to light. On all substantial matters affect-
since the projects financed by the Bank are usually   ing the successful execution and operation of a
not an end in themselves, but are intended to    project, the Bank, the borrower and the guarantor
help provide a basis for economic advance over    agree to consult, in normal course and not as a
a broad front.                                  matter of emergency or special negotiation.
To avoid these dangers the Bank, in deter-      Many of the undertakings financed by the
mining whether it should finance a project, asks    Bank are of a kind or on a scale new to the
to be fully informed in advance on matters that    organization carrying them out. Discussion in ad-
have an important bearing on the outcome. These    vance of a loan, or actual experience as the project
matters include, among others: the economic    progresses, may indicate that the responsible
merits of the undertaking; engineering and other    organization is not fully equipped to deal with
physical phases of the project; the financing of    particular physical, financial or administrative
local and any other expenditure not covered by    problems; indeed, regardless of the stage of de-
the loan; management and administration during    velopment reached by the country concerned, con-
both construction and operation. The Bank con-    sultant services or other outside assistance may
[4)



be required by any organization embarking on    port through the valley would be an important
a new project. In cases where assistance is needed    aid to the economic development of Colombia.
the Bank is willing, and conceives it to be an    But it was not known what traffic to expect, or
integral part of its function, to see that this as-    whether it could be served best by improving the
sistance is provided-either through members of    navigability of the river, by building motor roads
its own staff or through help to the borrower in    through the valley, or by constructing a railroad.
obtaining expert assistance elsewhere.           The Government and the Bank therefore brought
It obviously is not practicable to discuss    in an engineering firm to examine prospective
here in any detail all the different kinds of situa-    traffic needs and to determine the best way of
tion that arise, or all the steps the Bank may take    meeting them. The firm's report, which included
toward meeting them. But an outline can be given  a comprehensive traffic study of the entire Co-
of the main types of problem which may be en-    lombian railway system, gave a factual basis for
countered in putting a project into effect, and    judging the merits of the railroad link.
which the Bank may be able to help in solving.
Preparation and Planning
Econiomic Appraisal                                  Before a loan is made, the Bank examines
The Fifth Annual Report explained the eco-    the principal plans and specifications to see
nomic standards by which the Bank determines    whether they are appropriate and to see whether,
what projects may on economic grounds be suit-    out of experience available to it, improvements
table for financing. It will therefore only be said    can be suggested in the project. This has provided
now that, in consultation with the authorities of    a way of discovering weaknesses in planning, some
the country concerned, the Bank tries to select    of which, if left unremedied, could have had most
high-priority projects within the framework of    serious consequences for the project. In one in-
the country's overall economic needs.            stance, it was shown that the water available
One vital test of the economic value of a    would be insufficient to supply the turbines pro-
project is an assessment of the size of the demand    posed for a hydroelectric plant on which a large
and the suitability of the project to meet it. This    part of the construction had already been done.
is important not only in reaching a decision on    On the Bank's recommendation the project was
the economic justification of a project but also in    redesigned in order to make it practicable. In
deciding on its scale and other matters affecting    another instance, it was found that the type of
its precise nature. There may be no doubt, for    rolling stock proposed for a railway system would
instance, that more electric power would greatly    be running over bridges too weak to carry it
benefit a particular region; yet it will be necessary    safely; and the strengthening of the bridges by
to know as much as can be learned about the    the borrower was made a part of the project.
probable size and characteristics of the market      The preparatory study may also provide an
for power before generating and transmission    opportunity for the Bank to suggest ways in which
facilities can be effectively planned. In connection    the economic value of a project can be increased
with projects of various kinds, in fact, it is normal    by modifications or additions to the original pro-
for the Bank to call for market or traffic studies,    posal. An exchange of ideas with the Indian Iron
and it often advises regarding the collection and    and Steel Company, for instance, resulted in the
analysis of such information.                    conclusion that the addition of a new coke oven
The Magdalena Valley Railroad project, now    to the Company's construction program  would
being financed by the Bank in Colombia, came    make it possible and useful to retain and mod-
about from a study of transport needs. The Gov-    ernize two blast furnaces that otherwise would
ernment and the Bank believed that better trans-    have been abandoned. Discussion of proposals
[5}



for improving the operations of Callao, Peru's    stipulations on the way the finance should be
major seaport, showed that the acquisition of    raised. This is a complex problem which takes
equipment for handling bulk as well as general    many forms; but the Bank must satisfy itself of the
cargo would accomplish even greater savings than    intent and the ability of the borrower to provide
the project originally proposed; and the amount    the funds. In projects depending on governmental
of the loan was increased so as to cover both    resources these funds are commonly supplied
purposes.                                         through annual appropriations by the Govern-
Often there is an earlier stage of collabora-    ment; but in exceptional cases, as with the road
tion, when a proposal is brought to the Bank with    construction programs in Ethiopia and Nicaragua,
a request for advice on how to go about more    the Government may provide funds by direct al-
detailed preparation. The Bank will give general    locations of revenue from a specified tax.
advice as to procedure, but it will usually rec-       Whatever the method of meeting the na-
ommend that the prospective borrower retain an    tional currency needs of a project, the Bank en-
experienced firm  or individual to assist in the    sures that the necessary steps are thought out
preparation of the project. The Bank has not lent    and planned in advance. In this planning, allow-
for the preliminary studies required to determine    ance is made so far as possible for changes that
the feasibility of a project. On occasion, however,    may later take place in price levels and wage
it has included the foreign exchange costs of the    rates. When these changes have nevertheless
detailed engineering required in actually carrying  called for a revision of the original plans, the
out the project.                                  Bank has often been able to help the borrower
The Bank not only wishes to be satisfied, in    in working out methods for raising the additional
the borrower's as well as in its own interest, that    funds needed.
the plans for a project are sound; it also needs       The Bank stresses the importance of avoid-
to know that construction will be entrusted to    ing procedures, either in raising the money needed
competent hands and will be properly supervised.    for construction or in subsequent operation, which
In cases where the borrower has not already found    may have an inflationary impact, or which may
them, the Bank stresses the importance of em-    absorb an unduly large share of the capital avail-
ploying properly qualified firms for construction  able to meet the country's other investment needs.
and supervision of the project.                   The Bank believes that, in the absence of special
considerations to the contrary, projects which can
Domestic Currency Requirements                    earn revenue should be designed to cover their
The Bank lends only part of the money re-    own costs and to be self-supporting in terms of
quired for a project and, except in a few special    local currency.
circumstances, has lent only for foreign exchange      Since the tariffs for electric power, transport
expenditures. But the generator financed by a    and related services are in most countries subject
loan from abroad serves its purpose only when    to governmental regulation, when the Bank is
installed in a powerhouse built by local labor    lending for these services it seeks to assure itself
paid with domestic currency. So far as it can,    in advance that adequate rates will be allowed. In
therefore, the Bank wishes to be assured before    some cases the existing level of rates may be
making a loan that the local financing necessary    adequate; the Bank may then be concerned only
to complete the project will, in fact, be forth-    to receive an assurance that official policy will be
coming.                                           to keep it so in future. In other cases the estab-
The loan agreement usually indicates the    lished level may be inadequate. When this situa-
borrower's responsibility for providing necessary    tion was encountered in a recent lending opera-
funds not covered by the loan, and may make    tion for electric power in Asia, an agreement
t6]



to authorize the necessary increases in rates was    quire measures to ensure that salary standards
obtained from the Government. In the case of    are adequate, that tenure of employment is rea-
natural gas in Pakistan, no established pattern    sonably secure and that promotion will be by
of rates existed. In setting up the loan to the Sui    merit. The Bank studies these matters and may
Gas Transmission Company, the Bank therefore    suggest ways of improving the conditions under
received assurance that the rates would be fixed    which management has to operate.
at a level which would allow a satisfactory return.  In governmental enterprises, even though
Revenue-earning projects may offer oppor-    management possesses the necessary qualifications,
tunities for mobilizing private investment. The    it cannot be fully effective if its actions are ham-
Bank urges borrowers to seize these opportunities    pered by outside interventions and pressures. As
whenever they appear to be present. In El Salvador    a protection against this, the Bank has sometimes
the Bank assisted the Lempa River Commission    recommended the establishment of an autonomous
to prepare a bond issue to finance the local cur-    body to run a project.
rency expenditure of a hydroelectric project whose   The problems of management during the
foreign exchange costs were to be met by a Bank    construction stage can be eased by the choice of
loan. In lending for the Seyhan project in Turkey,    dependable contractors and the employment of
arrangements were made in collaboration with    experienced supervisors. But problems may arise
the Government to raise private capital for a    through failures of coordination and timing, or
utility company formed to generate and distribute    through the emergence of unforeseen physical
power; and the majority of the stock of the com-    difficulties. Moreover, a large construction pro-
pany was bought by private investors.            gram carried out by an existing organization may
Whether a revenue-earning enterprise is in    require the strengthening of top management, as
public or private ownership, the Bank examines    well as of technical personnel, to keep pace with
the earning prospects of the completed project.   the growth of the enterprise.
It compares the expected rate of return with that    The operation of a completed project may
earned in similar enterprises elsewhere. In ac-    present other more serious types of management
cordance with sound lending practice, it may where    problem. Good management at this stage is some-
appropriate make provisions regarding such mat-   times taken to consist merely of the technical
ters as the debt-equity ratio, working capital avail-    capacity to operate a plant or administer a serv-
ability, and future dividend policy.             ice; and this, clearly, is an indispensable qualifi-
cation. But the outcome will also depend on other
Administration and Management                    important qualities of leadership, and on the abil-
However thorough the preparation, no proj-   ity of the manager to look beyond the require-
ect is likely to succeed unless it is put in the hands    ments of the immediate task and to envisage fu-
of able management. Particularly in countries rela-    ture problems arising out of the development
tively new to large-scale enterprise, managerial    and growth of the enterprise. Management must
skill may be scarce; and in many cases its exer-    have not only technical competence but also a
cise is hampered by outmoded practices and com-    talent for handling personal relationships; har-
plicated regulations. Progress may be impeded    monious relations with labor, with governmental
by inadequate accountancy standards and inven-    agencies involved, and with the public, may be
tory controls, cumbersome procurement proced-    vital to the success of the enterprise. The capacity
ures, or ill-advised personnel policies. It is often    to build a staff and to delegate authority may be
necessary to take positive steps toward making a    of crucial importance. A successful industrial man-
career in the new  enterprise attractive to the    ager must be prepared to adjust his output in
best-qualified people; this may, for instance, re-    quantity, quality and price to the needs of his
[71



market, and will miss no opportunity of estab-    than later, any difficulties that may arise. And
lishing a new outlet, developing a new process    difficulties, many of which cannot be foreseen,
or turning to a more favorable source of raw      inevitably arise. Few, if any, projects financed by
material or fuel supply.                          the Bank have proceeded precisely according to
As a safeguard against the dangers which    plan. Landslides, typhoons, currency devaluations,
may arise from managerial weaknesses, the Bank    changes of government-these and other occur-
may arrange that the management of a project    rences have in one case or another interfered with
must be acceptable to the Bank as well as to the    timely execution. Early knowledge of difficulties
borrower. This may call for a re-examination of    puts the Bank in a position to begin discussion
the managerial arrangements of an existing or-    of the best solution promptly with the borrower,
ganization, or for assistance in setting up a suit-    and to move the project toward a successful
able organization before a new  enterprise is    conclusion.
launched. The Bank may also advise on the quali-
fications required for key posts; if requested, it    Security Arrangements
may assist in finding suitable persons to fill them.   The Bank, like any investor, makes arrange-
Thus it has helped the borrower to make suitable    ments to protect its loans against default. But its
managerial appointments in a development bank    special constitution and objectives require it to
in the Middle East, a river valley project in Asia    avoid rigid adherence to set procedures in ques-
and a port authority in Latin America. In cases    tions of security; it seeks to match its require-
where managerial skills within the country need    ments with the needs of particular loans. The
in the early stages to be supplemented from out-    considerations that influence the Bank may differ
side, one of the objectives is to impart those skills    from those that are familiar to borrowers in other
so that local staff may take over responsibility    situations, and they have sometimes been misun-
as soon as possible.                              derstood. Moreover, they may bear directly upon
the relationship between the Bank and the bodv
responsible for a project. Although security ar-
As was mentioned earlier in this discussion,    rangements are not in all cases directly concerned
the Bank keeps closely in touch with the project    with the project, they are considered appropriate
throughout the life of the loan. It receives periodic    for discussion here.
reports from borrowers, and members of the staff      In conformity with the Articles of Agree-
visit the project to see at first hand the work being    ment, the Bank has obtained a governmental
done. This practice arises from the provision of    guarantee of all loans not made to a government.
the Articles of Agreement that "the Bank shall    The governmental obligation, as borrower or guar-
make arrangements to ensure that the proceeds of    antor, is the ultimate protection for Bank loans.
any loan are used only for the purposes for which  Given this protection the Bank does not, in the
the loan was granted, with due attention to con-    absence of special considerations, require mort-
siderations of economy and efficiency." But it has    gages, pledges or other positive security for the
been found that the reporting procedure set up,    obligations of member governments either as bor-
in addition to providing a yardstick by which the    rowers or as guarantors.
Bank can measure the progress made, has in many        On the other hand the Bank must be as-
cases provided the management of the project    sured that it will n6t receive from its members
with a flow of information important to the con-    less favorable treatment than other future cred-
duct of its affairs.                             itors. For that reason it includes the so-called
The purpose of the Bank in closely following    negative pledge clause as a standard feature in its
up a project is to bring to light sooner, rather    loan and guarantee agreements with member gov-
{8}



ernments. Essentially, that clause provides that    in lending to private borrowers the Bank attempts
the Bank will share proportionally in any positive    to conform to established lending standards and
security or priority on governmental assets that    to regulate its security arrangements accordingly.
may in the future be created to secure external    To accept more lenient conditions than are cus-
debt. The Bank regards this kind of assurance as    tomary for private capital might discourage bor-
necessary to enable it to continue its normal prac-    rowers from using private funds when available
tice of dealing with governments on an unsecured   on reasonable terms, and private lenders from
basis, and as fair and appropriate to the Bank's   investing in development projects.
character as a cooperative institution in whose         The decision whether to ask for positive
loans all members have a financial stake.
loans alebsheisecurity from private borrowers depends on the
When the borrower is a governmental body      particular circumstances of each case. In prac-
the Bank does not normally obtain security beyond    tice, the Bank has usually required it. Mortgages
that provided by a negative pledge covenant from   or comparable charges were provided, for ex-
the borrower. In two types of situation, however,    ample, in the recent loans to Compafiia Manufac-
the Bank may wish to take positive security for    turera de Papeles y Cartones for pulp and paper
loans to these bodies. First, if the borrower has    production in Chile and to the Sui Gas Trans-
given mortgages or other positive security to prior    mission Company in Pakistan, as well as in earlier
creditors, the Bank may ask similar security to    loans such as those to the Brazilian Traction,
assure itself of equal treatment. Second, in the   Light and Power Company and to the Dutch ship-
circumstance that the borrower has appropriate    ping companies.
foreign exchange assets or assets from which for-
eign exchange can readily be realized, the Bank    The Bank's Objectives
may wish to take security, particularly if this in-
creases the likelihood of participation by private      It is sometimes suggested that, since the Bank
investors. In practice, these circumstances have    lends only with a governmental guarantee, it need
seldom arisen. When they have, it has been prin-    not pay great attention to the details of the proj-
cipally with loans to corporations which, though   ect itself or to the organization of the body re-
wholly or substantially owned by a government,    sponsible. But the Bank's main purpose is to assist
are organized and operated like private com-    its member countries to draw maximum  benefit
panies. That is true, for example, of the loan to    from  the development process. It is concerned,
KLM  (Royal Dutch Airlines), where the Bank        primarily to ensure that its loans make the great-
obtained a chattel mortgage on aircraft.           est possible contribution to increasing production,
Loans to private borrowers involve some-    raising living standards and opening opportunities
what different considerations. Here it is also im-    for further investment. The Bank's interests there-
portant to ensure that the Bank is not placed in    fore go considerably beyond those of the more
the position of a junior creditor, particularly be-    usual type of lending institution, and the achieve-
cause of the need to retain a voice in the case    ment of its objectives cannot be ensured by safe-
of reorganization or similar proceedings. More-    guards dealing only with questions of debt service.
over, a guaranteeing government, in making good         These objectives require that, quite apart-
on its guarantee and as a consequence succeeding   from consideration of interest and principal pay-
to the Bank's rights against the private borrower,    ments to the Bank, the project must succeed. It
would legitimately expect to succeed to a senior    is for this reason that the Bank has sought, in.
creditor's position and not to find its claim rank-    ways indicated above, to give direct assistance in
ing below those of private creditors. In any case,    solving the many problems which may arise be-
[911



fore a fresh investment of external capital can     satisfaction  to  the  Bank  when  projects are
yield its full return.                              prepared and carried smoothly to success with
Responsibility  for the  management and        little call for practical assistance and advice from
execution of a project rests upon the operating     the Bank. But the complexities of development
bodies and not upon the Bank, and the question      projects are such that it expects this type of prac-
whether a project will succeed depends above all    tical collaboration to remain an integral part of its
on their handling of it. It is of course a matter of    operations.
[101



Chapter II-The Bank's Operations
This section is a country-by-country descrip-    member government concerned. The interest
tion of the operations of the Bank in the past   rates shown include the 1% commission which,
fiscal year. For each country in which the Bank    under the Bank's Articles of Agreement, is allo-
was active, information is given on one or more    cated to the Bank's Special Reserve. Additional
of the following topics: loans made; negotiations    details, such as maturity dates of loans, amounts
and surveys looking to possible loans; reports of    disbursed and repayments of capital, are shown
progress on Bank-financed projects; and technical
assistance. Loans that were fully disbursed prior   inatbur sary o       se
to the beginning of the fiscal year are discussed    beginning on page 54.
in previous Annual Reports.                        Loans made during the fiscal year brought
Preceding the account of operations in each    the total of the Bank's lending to $1,914 mil-
country is a list by fiscal year of all loans made in   lion ($1,874 million net of $40 million of can-
that country. Unless otherwise indicated, loans    cellations and refundings). The table on the
have been made to member governments; loans    following page classifies this total according to
to other borrowers have the guarantee of the    the purpose and regional distribution of loans.
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
Indus River System                            by the Secretary General of the League, the Inter-
Engineers of India and Pakistan, together    national Bank in November 1953 submitted a
with engineers from the Bank, in September 1953    memorandum outlining some of the fundamental
resumed their discussions of technical measures    problems of organizing a development bank and
for increasing the supplies of water from  the    making suggestions about how these problems
Indus River system for purposes of economic de-    might be approached.
velopment. In February 1954 the management
of the Bank put forward a proposed outline as a
framework for a comprehensive plan, and this       In October 1953 the Bank stationed at
was taken under consideration by the Govern-    Beirut, Lebanon, a staff member accredited to
ments.                                        Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria. He has
responsibility for explaining and interpreting the
Arab Development Bank                         Bank's objectives, policies and activities; he ad-
In May 1953 the Beirut Conference of Min-    vises prospective borrowers on the preparation and
isters of National Economy and Finance of the    presentation of projects for the Bank's considera-
Arab States authorized the secretariat of the Arab    tion; and he develops and maintains contacts with
League to study a project for establishing an Arab    governments, business communities, regional or-
Development Bank to assist economic develop-    ganizations and international organizations in the
ment in the Arab States. In response to a request   area.
till



Bank Loans Classified by Purpose and Area-June 30, 1954
(In millions of United States dollars, net of cancellations and refundings)
Total                              Area
Purpose                       T
and Type of Supplies                  ~~~Asia &                          Western
and Ty,Zpe of Supplies                              A3Middle         Austral-          Hemi-
Financed                                      East    Africa     asia    Europe   sphere
GRAND  TOTAL  ......           ........     1,874           232       199      204      782      457
RECONSTRUCTION LOANS:
TOTAL: France, The Netherlands, Den-
mark, Luxembourg ...................        497             -        -        -      497       -
OTHER LOANS
TOTAL ...............................        1,377            232     199      204      285     457
ELECTRIC POWER: Machinery, equipment
and construction materials ...........    509             63       88       33      35      290
TRANSPORT ........... .............         397              86      71       74       63     103
Railroads: locomotives, rolling stock,
rails, shop and station equipment and
materials .......... .............      201             63       68      17        3       50
Shipping: vessels and marine equip-
ment .............. ............         37             -        -       -        37       -
Ports: docks, warehouses, harbor craft,
loading and dredging machinery....       24              4        1      -        16        3
Airlines: aircraft and airport equip-
ment .............. ............         34             -        -       27        7       -
Roads: construction equipment and
vehicles ........................        87              5        2       30      -        50
Pipelines: pipe, fittings and materials
for natural gas ..................       14             14           -        -            -
COMMUNICATIONS: Telephone and tele-
graph equipment and supplies)  .......     26              2       -       -        -        24
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY    ........        167             47       -        71      29       20
Mechanization: farm machinery and
equipment .........   ............       76             -        -       58        2       16
Irrigation and flood control: construc-
tion equipment and materials .......     57             37       -        6       13        1
Land improvement: construction equip-
ment and materials ...............       22             10       -        7        3        2
Grain storage: construction materials
and equipment ..................          5             -        -       -         4        1
Timber production: machinery and
vehicles ........... .............        7             -        -       -         7       -
INDUSTRY ............ .............         168              32      -        26      90       20
Manufacturing machinery ..... ......      145             32       -        19      74       20
Mining equipment .......   ..........      23             -        -         7      16       -
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT ...... ......           110               2      40       -       68       -
Development banks ................                         2       -                18       -
General development plans ..... .....      90             -        40      -        50       -
f12)



ASIA
Burma                                               Administration will assist in providing top staff
The Bank sent the report of its fact-finding   for the institute.
mission to the Government in September 1953.             A Bank mission visited Ceylon in April and
The mission bad visited Burma earlier in the year    May 1954 to discuss with the Government sug-
gestions for the establishment of a privately-
to review the economic and financial situation and  owedvlpmncroatntorvieon
owned development corporation to provide loan
to discuss the Government's development plans.    and equity capital for private enterprise.  In Feb-
Ceylon                                              ruary 1954 a Bank consultant advised the Gov-
ernment and the Central Bank of Ceylon on
Negotiations have been concluded for a loan    measures for further developing the market for
of $19,110,000 to help finance the Aberdeen-    government securities.
Laksapana hydroelectric scheme, which will sup-
ply additional power to southwestern Ceylon, the    India
most productive and populous part of the Island.      Fiscat $34 million 15-year 4%o loan of August
Ceylon has virtually no fuel resources, and the        1950:      18, 1949 for railway rehabilitation;
growing demand for power can be met most eco-                     reduced at request of borrower on
May 16, 1950 to $32.8 million, which
nomically by developing hydroelectric potential.                  had been disbursed by March 1951.
The Aberdeen-Laksapana scheme is intended                $10 million 7-year 312% loan of Septem-
ber 29, 1949 for importation of agri-
to develop the power potential of the Kehelgamu                   cultural machinery; reduced to $8.5
and Maskeliya rivers at a point about 50 miles                    million on July 27, 1951, to $7.5 mil-
lion on August 25, 1952 and to $7.2
east of Colombo, the capital.  Eventually the                     million on January 1, 1954 at request
total generating capacity of this development will                of borrower.
be 150,000 kilowatts.  The scheme is being car-              $18.5 million 20-year 4%  loan of April
18, 1950 for power development.
ried out in stages, of which the first was com-       Fiscal $31.5 million 15-year 49% loan of De-
pleted in 1951.                                        1953:      cember 18, 1952 to Indian Iron and
Steel Company, Limited, for expan-
The Banks loan will help finance the next                   sion of iron and steel production fa-
stage.  In this stage, a storage dam will be built                cilities.
on the Kehelgamu to regulate the river's flow so             $19.5 million 25-year 4Y/8% loan of Janu-
ary 23, 1953 for electric power devel-
that more power can be generated; another 25,-                    opment, flood control and irrigation;
000 kilowatts will be added to the generating                    reduced to $10.5 million on Febru-
ary 4, 1954 at request of borrower.
capacity of the station; and additional transmis-     Total: $100.5 million, net of cancellations.
sion lines and distribution facilities will be con-      The Government of India has approached
structed.  It is expected that the project will be    the Bank for loans to assist in financing the con-
completed in approximately four years.              struction of two electric power plants in the State
The Government has taken additional steps    of Bombay and to make a power study of the
to carry out the recommendations of the general    Greater Bombay Area.  Early in 1954 a Bank
survey mission which visited Ceylon in 1951.    engineer re-examined economic, technical and fi-
A member of the Bank's staff went to Ceylon in       nancial aspects of a proposed thermal plant to be
April 1954 to advise the Government on the           located on Trombay Island and to be owned and
organization of an autonomous technical research    operated by the three Tata electric companies.
institute which is being set up to undertake ap-    He also examined existing information on a pro-
plied industrial research.  It is expected that the  posed hydroelectric plant on the Koyna River
Bank and the United Nations Technical Assistance    to be operated by the State of Bombay.  A report
{13}



on the power study has been sent to the Govern-    makes a total of over one million acres that have
ment.                                              been reclaimed in the five years of the project's
In February 1954 a Bank mission went to    operation.  It is estimated that by the end of
India to explore the possibilities of establishing    the 1955-56 plowing season a total of about 1V2
a privately owned and operated development cor-    million acres will have been cleared.
poration to finance the expansion and moderni-         The $31.5 million loan for an expansion of
zation of private industry.  The findings of this    the productive capacity of the Indian Iron and
group were favorable; and a steering committee     Steel Company has not yet become effective.  The
consisting of prominent Indian businessmen was    Government of India, as guarantor of the loan,
set up to draft a charter for a corporation which  has informed the Bank that the causes for the
would finance existing and new industries through  delay have been overcome and that arrangements
loans and equity participations, and provide busi-   to proceed with the expansion scheme can soon
ness ventures with technical and managerial ad-    be made.
vice. Upon establishment of such a corporation,    Japan
the Bank will consider making a loan to it.         Fiscal $21.5 million 20-year 5% loan of October
Two of the Bank's previous loans are helping    1954:     15, 1953 to Japan Development Bank
todvlo   lcti  owrrsore i  h  Dm-to be re-lent to Kansai Electric Power
to develop electric power resources in the Damo-               Company, Incorporated, for power de-
dar Valley.  India's largest thermal power plant,              velopment.
constructed at Bokaro with the help of the $18.5           $11.2 million 20-year 5% loan of October
15, 1953 to Japan Development Bank
million loan of 1950, was put into commercial                  to be re-lent to Kyushu Electric Power
operation in October 1953.  It is being operated               Company, Incorporated, for power de-
by the Damodar Valley Corporation, which is                    velopment.
distributing thepowrtcoline,$7.5 million 20-year 5%  loan of October
distributing the power to coal mines, steel works,             15, 1953 to Japan Development Bank
various other industries and electric utilities in             to be re-lent to Chubu Electric Power
the Damodar Valley. Meanwhile work is prog-                    Company, Incorporated, for power de-
velopment.
ressing on the two hydroelectric plants, storage     Total: $40.2 million.
dams and an irrigation system for the Damodar          These loans are helping to finance the con-
Valley, which the $19.5 million loan made in    struction of three high-efficiency thermal power
1953 is helping to finance. Completion of a    stations being built by private companies in cen-
60,000-kilowatt plant at Maithon is expected by    tral and south Japan.  The companies serve parts
the middle of 1956, and a 40,000-kilowatt plant    of Japan comprising approximately 30%  of the
at Panchet Hill in the following year. By agree-    total area and containing about 40%  of the popu-
ment between the Bank and the borrower the    lation.  The new stations will have a combined
$19.5 million loan was reduced by $9 million in
view of the fact that an equivalent amount could    capacto 291,000 kilo tthich csp10%tof
Governent's  Japan's present public utlity thermal capacity.
be made available from the Indian Government's    They will furnish additional power to supplement
resources of pounds sterling.
resources of pounds sterling Ihydroelectric supplies and will replace less efficient
Steady progress is being made in ridding large    thermal units. An indication of the efficiency of
areas of land in central India from  the weed    the new stations is that savings in fuel consump-
called kans grass, with the help of tractors and    tion, compared with existing thermal plants, will
other equipment bought with the loan of Septem-    be sufficient in the case of the Kansai plant to pay
ber 1949.  During the 1953-54 plowing season,    off its construction cost in six years.
some 280,000 more acres of infested land were          Although power production in Japan has
returned to the production of food crops.  This    increased markedly over the prewar level, supply
{ 141



is still running far behind demand, and shortage    zation of the United Nations.  The mission's re-
of power is a serious obstacle to the growth of    port is now being prepared at Bank headquarters.
industrial production. The new generating ca-
pacity will help to meet the demands of indus-    Philippines
trial plants manufacturing metals, machinery, tex-     The Bank's Director of Marketing made a
tiles and chemicals, and of coal mines and ship-    second visit to the Philippines in July of 1953
yards.  These industries are of key importance in    further to assist in establishing a capital market for
Japan's efforts to improve its international balance    government securities.
of payments.
At the request of the Government, a mission    Thailand
visited Japan toward the end of 1953 to discuss
Fiscal $3 million 15-year 33/4%H loan of October
economic problems and policies and to look into      1951:     27, 1950 for railway rehabilitation.
possible further assistance by the Bank.  On the               Fully disbursed June 1954.
basis of the mission's report, the Bank expressed          $18 million 20-year 4%o loan of October
27, 1950 for irrigation project.
the view to the Government that in the develop-            $4.4 million 15-year 33/4% loan of Octo-
ment of an investment program for Japan, par-                  ber 27, 1950 for port development.
ticular consideration should be given to: (1) in-    Total $25.4 million.
creasing agricultural and livestock output; (2)         Projects financed with the help of these three
lowering costs of steel production by modernizing    loans are making satisfactory progress.  Most of
equipment and techniques used in the industry;    the buildings at the Makkasan railway workshops
(3) reducing the cost of mining coal, particular-    near Bangkok, which the Bank's $3 million loan
ly coking coal; (4) augmenting supplies of both    is helping to finance, have been completed; and
thermal and hydroelectric power and exploring    the installation of equipment is expected to be
the extent of reserves of subterranean steam as an    finished by August 1954.  All the railway signal-
additional source of power; and (5) bettering    ing equipment has been delivered and is being
the international competitive position of Japan's   installed.
industry for the manufacture of various types of       The irrigation project in the central plain,
machinery.  The Government has indicated a de-    for which the Bank has lent $18 million, is ex-
sire to obtain loans for these purposes, and the    pected to be completed toward the end of 1958.
Bank is preparing to send technical missions to   Work on the network of irrigation canals and on
Japan for closer studies.                         the Chao Phya River barrage near Chainat is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Malaya and Singapore                                   During the year, considerable progress was
made on the project for improving the port of
A Bank general survey mission was in Malaya   Bago.Tecneltruhhesdbrt
and  ingporein  anuay-My 194 t preare Bangkok. The channel through the sandbar at
andomSingapiore in Jaur-a  1954rnmes to prepe      the estuary of the Chao Phya, which should per-
nomic development. The mission was organied    mit ships of 10,000 tons to enter the port, was
finally completed in January 1954 after a num-
at the request of the Governments of the Federa-    ber of difficulties in the dredging operation had
tion of Malaya, of Singapore and of the United    been overcome.  A  two-year management con-
Kingdom, and consisted of 13 members, including    tract for the maintenance of the channel by for-
nationals of eight different countries.  Four ag-    eign contractors was signed in May.  Some de-
ricultural specialists attached to the mission were    lays are still being encountered, however, in the
nominated by the Food and Agriculture Organi-    delivery and installation of port equipment.  An
151



expert recommended by the Bank to help the    delegation was in Washington from September
Port Authority to reorganize its operations has    1953 to March 1954 for technical discussions on
presented his report to the Government and the    a program to rehabilitate and develop the railway
Authority.  The Authority will employ an exper-   system.  The Bank is in continuing contact with
ienced adviser to assist in carrying out the recom-    the Government on this matter.
mendations of the report and in administering the     At the request of the Government, a Bank
port.                                            representative was in Thailand from  December
Following the report of the Bank mission     1953 to March 1954 to discuss various economic
which visited Thailand in early 1953, a Thai    and financial problems with Government officials.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Egypt                                            ductions of travel time, of vehicle maintenance
The Bank has offered to review the project    costs and of trucking rates on some routes.
The Bank has disbursed $1 million of its
for a high dam on the Nile above Aswan to pro-     Tml   lan madesourovde foreign excang
vide flood control, irrigation and hydroelectric                             ' m
to the Ethiopian Development Bank. Since the
power.  Such a studv would seek to determine
start of operations in 1951, the credit activities
that the project is practical and economic and    ofteDvlpetBn   aegonsol  u
would~~~ efetvl utlz .iewae.TeBn             of the Development Bank have grown slowly but
steadily, and the institution is now making a profit.
has also offered to examine a project for manu-
facturing fertilizer by using the hydroelectric pow-    At the end of June 1954 total invested funds out-
er now being installed at the existing Aswan dam.    standing amounted to Eth. $6.5 milliond as com-
*pared with Eth. $1.1 mnillion at the end of 1-951.
Ethiopia                                         These funds were invested both in agriculture
and in industrial plants, mostly for the process-
Fiscal $5 million 20-year 4% loan of September
1951:     13. 1950 for rehabilitation of roads.  ng of agricultural products.  The International
Fully disbursed in May 1954.         Bank loan has been used almost exclusively for
$2 million 20-year 4% loan of September  industrial projects; agricultural loans have been
13, 1950 for Development Bank.
$1.5 million 20-year 4% loan of February
19, 1951 for rehabilitation and devel-   After a delay caused principally by initial
opment of telecommunications.        organizational difficulties, the $1.5 million tele-
Total: $8.5 million.                           communications loan became eifective in February
Disbursement of the Bank's $5 million loan   1954; meanwhile the program of the Imperial
to finance the foreign exchange costs of road-    Board of Telecommunications for improvements
building equipment, materials and services has    of telephone, telegraph and radio systems has pro-
been completed. The rehabilitation program is    gressed. The Board has completed its adminis-
progressing: the reconstruction of the three main    trative organization, has carried out extensive con-
roads radiating from Addis Ababa to Assab, Jimma    struction and rehabilitation work on lines and
and Lekempti is nearly finished; and maintenance    equipment, and has inaugurated several training
has been provided on most of the 2,500-mile net-   courses. Although the program will not be com-
work of primary roads.  The entire network is    pleted until the end of 1955, the networks are
now usable, most of it in all seasons of the year.    already handling increased traffic.
The Imperial Highway Authority should complete        Two persons nominated by the Bank at the
the rehabilitation program by March 1955 and    request of the Government assumed important
will continue maintenance of the system.  Bene-    posts in Ethiopia during the fiscal year.  One be-
ficial effects of the program are reflected in re-    came Governor of the State Bank of Ethiopia in
t161



December 1953; the other took up his duties as         The loan of 5 million made in June 1954
adviser to the Minister of Finance in May 1954.   will help finance the foreign exchange costs of
constructing a natural gas pipeline in West Paki-
Iraq                                              stan. The project, based on the recent discovery
Fiscal $12.8 million 15-year 33/%  loan of June  of natural gas about 350 miles from Karachi, will
1950:     15, 1950 for flood control,           for the first time make this fuel available in Paki-
Total: $ 12.8 million.
stan.  Because of its limited resources of coal and
Construction of the barrage to divert flood    oil, this new domestic source of fuel is of par-
waters from the Tigris River above Baghdad was    ticular importance to Pakistan's economic develop-
begun in August 1953.  Work is about half fin-    ment.  The pipeline will run through the Lower
ished on the dike and canal that will lead these    Indus Valley to Sukkur, Hyderabad and Karachi.
waters into the Wadi Tharthar depression.  Prog-    Initially the market for gas will be confined to
ress is somewhat behind schedule, partly because    large industrial consumers in these cities.
of re-planning which will improve the project          The borrower,  the Sui Gas Transmission
both technically and economically and partly be-    Cmn  wormed in Fuar 1954.mThree-
cause of the heavy floods this year.  It is expected
that the project as a whole will be sufficiently    quarters of the shares of the Company are held
by private investors in Pakistan and the United
far dvaced o dvertflod waersearb in1956  Kigdom, and one-quarter, by the Pakistan Indus-
In August 1953 a Bank representative visited    tialdopment Corporatin   Sligtly more
Iraq for discussions with the Development Board    tilDvlpetCroain                      lgtymr
than one-half of the shares are in Pakistani owner-
concerning steps being taken to implement the    so
recommendations of the Bank's general survey    wealth Dvlmen Fin Company                ofmthe
mission of 1951-52.-                      wealth Development Finance Company of the
mission of 195 1-52.                              United Kingdom hold the remainder.  The Trans-
Jordan                                            mission Company will be operated by the Burmah
Oil Company's Pakistan subsidiary, which has been
Bank representatives visited Jordan in May   reandsmna
1954 to discuss the Government's request for as-    ring agent for 20 years.
Six British banks are participatin g in the loan,
sistance in studying the country's development po-               ko 
tentialities.                                     without the Bank's guarantee, to the extent of
645,000, representing the first seven maturities,
Lebanon                                           falling due semi-annually from August 1, 1956
The Bank informed the Government in Oc-    through  August 1, 1959.  The participating
tober 1953 of its views regarding the desirability    banks are The Chartered Bank of India, Australia
and prospects of establishing an industrial devel-    &  China; the Eastern Bank; Grindlays Bank;
opment bank in Lebanon, and offered further as-    Lloyds Bank; the Mercantile Bank of India; and
sistance.                                         the National Bank of India.
The $3.25 million loan of June 1952 for
Pakistan                                         the purchase of agricultural machinery to aid in
Fiscal $27.2 million 15-year 45s% loan of March  the reclamation of 110,000 acres of wasteland in
1952:     27, 1952 for railway rehabilitation.  the Punjab Province of West Pakistan became ef-
$3.25 million 7-year 41/s% loan of June  fective in February 1954. The Agricultural Ma-
13, 1952 for agricultural machinery.
Fiscal 5 million ($14 million) 20-year 43/4%   chinery Organization set up to carry out the rec-
1954:     loan of June 2, 1954 to Sui Gas Trans-  lamation project started operations in mid-1953.
mission Company, limited, for con-
struction of natural gas pipeline.   The Bank assigned a techncian to assist the Or-
Total: $44.45 million ($ equivalent).           ganization's newly recruited staff in getting the
[171



project under way; this technician is continuing as    Trust to rehabilitate badly deteriorated wharves at
an adviser, under the sponsorship of the Food and    the port of Karachi; a program for the further
Agriculture Organization. The operating effec-    development of the railways in East and West
tiveness of the Agricultural Machinery Organiza-    Pakistan; and a pulp and paper mill in East Paki-
tion is continuing to improve; by June 30, 1954,    stan.
110,000 acres had been cleared. The land is being
settled and planted to crops, principally wheat    Syria
and sugar cane, as fast as it is cleared.            A general survey mission visited Syria from
A delay in placing orders for equipment fi-    February to April 1954 to prepare recommenda-
nanced by the $27.2 million loan of March 1952    tions to assist the Government in formulating a
for a program  to improve and modernize the    long-term  development program. The mission
railways in East and West Pakistan has necessi-   consisted of ten members: a public finance adviser
tated extension of the closing date of the loan    from the International Monetary Fund; two agri-

from May 1954 to July 1955. About half of    cultural experts nominated by the Food and Ag-
the loan has been disbursed.  Operation and    riculture Organization; four consultants recruited
maintenance of the diesel electric locomotives and    by the Bank to advise on transportation, industry,
other equipment financed by the Bank continues
water resources, and housing and community plan-
to be satisfactory, and an improvement in freight
and passenger service has resulted.             ning; and three Bank staff members. One of the
two agricultural experts was provided by the Ford
In November 1953 the Bank stationed a spe-  Fonai.Thmsin'rertsnwbig
cial representative in Pakistan.  He has advised
in the execution of Bank-financed projects and in    prepared.
the preparation of proposed projects. He also        The Bank and the Syrian authorities are con-
represents the Bank on the committee set up by    tinuing technical studies of a project to equip the
the Pakistan Minister of Finance to coordinate    Port of Latakia, which is now being enlarged and
external financial assistance for development.  improved. The Government is preparing a re-
During the year the Bank discussed with the    vised program  of road construction. In June
Government and other prospective borrowers the    1954 three Bank consultants completed a field
possibility of financing other development proj-   survey of a project for draining and reclaiming
ects. Among these were the expansion program    the Ghab swamplands in the valley of the Oron-
of the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation, which    tes. Discussions regarding the financing of these
would more than double supplies of electricity    projects will be resumed when technical prepara-
to the Karachi area; a scheme of the Karachi Port   tibns have been completed.
EUROPE, AFRICA AND AUSTRALASIA
AFRICA
Belgian Congo                                        This loan, like the $30 million loan made
Fiscal $40 million 25-year 42% loan of Septem-  to Belgium on the same day, is supporting the
1952:     ber 13, 1951 to the Belgian Congo for  Ten-Year Plan for the Development of the Congo.
development plan. Guaranteed by Bel-  Disbursement of the loan, which is geared to the
gium. Made simultaneously with loan  rate of public investment in the Plan, was near-
of $30 million to Belgium (See page  r   ompltob  June    3   194  onl  $1.6
22).                               ing completion by June 30, 1954; only $1.6
Total: $40 million.                           million then remained in the loan account. After
118]



a slow start in 1950, the rate of expenditure un-    freight carried has risen to a level two-thirds
der the Plan was greatly accelerated in 1952 and    greater than prewar.
exceeded 5 billion Congolese francs ($100 mil-        The Bank's loan will provide funds for the
lion) in 1953.  The main investment has been    purchase of 35 diesel mainline locomotives and
in transport, agriculture, hydroelectric power de-    34 diesel switching ingines for the two longest
velopment and housing; substantial expenditures    and most heavily used lines, running from Dakar,
have also been made for public health and educa-    in Senegal, into French Sudan, and from Abidjan,
tion.                                            in the Ivory Coast, into the Upper Volta. The
diesels will be cheaper to operate than the steam
French West Africa                                locomotives they will replace, and can be ex-
Fiscal $7.5 million 12-year 41/2%  loan of June  pected to pay for themselves in about six years.
1954:     10, 1954 to the Office Central des
Chemins de Fer de la France d'Outre-  Nigeria
Mer for modernization of French
West African Railways. Guaranteed by      A  general survey mission visited Nigeria
Total; $7.5 million.                           from  September to December 1953 to prepare
recommendations to the Government for a pro-
This loan will assist a modernization pro-    gram of economic development.  The mission had
gram being carried out by the French West African  15 members: five from the Bank's staff; one from
Railway Administration, which operates under    the staff of the International Monetary Fund;
the control of the Central Office for French Over-   three consultants nominated by the Food and Ag-
seas Railways. J. P. Morgan & Co. is partici-   riculture Organization; and six consultants re-
pating in the loan, without the Bank's guarantee,    cruited by the Bank to advise on mineral resources,
to the extent of $609,000 covering the first two    power, animal husbandry, roads, public health,
maturities falling due on December 1, 1956 and    water resources and irrigation, and education and
June 1, 1957.                                     social services.  The report of the mission is near-
Efficient rail transport is essential to the de-    ing completion.
velopment of French West Africa: distances are
great; river transport is generally impracticable;    Northern Rhodesia
and roads are costly to build and maintain. About   Fiscal $14 million 19-year 4%  loan of March
four-fifths of the freight now carried by the rail-  1953:    11, 1953 to the Territory of Northern
ways moves in overseas trade.                                 Rhodesia for railway development.
Guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
During the second World War, the railways      Total: $14 million.
suffered seriously from lack of replacement parts      Good progress has been made during the
and could not be adequately maintained.  In 1947
year on the three-year development program of
the French authorities began a long-range program  the Rhodesia Railways which this loan is helping
to modernize equipment and increase operating    to finance. The Railways serve Northern Rho-
efficiency.  Track, telecommunications and repair    desia, Southern Rhodesia and Bechuanaland and
facilities are being improved, rolling stock is being    have been heavily overburdened because of the
modernized, and steam locomotives are being re-    exceptionally rapid development of the Rhodesias
placed by diesels on all the four separate meter-    since the war.  About half the locomotives, pas-
gauge lines which constitute the system. By the    senger and freight cars to be purchased under the
end of 1952 the equivalent of $45 million had    program have been delivered and are in operation.
been spent and about half the program had been    Improvements are being made in existing lines
completed.  In the meantime, the volume of    through track renewal and regrading; other traffic
[19J



and operating facilities are being modernized and           $30 million 10-year 43Y4% loan of August
The building of the new line from                    28, 1953 for expansion of transpor-
expanded.  The bulldmg of the new lme from                      tation facilities. Fully disbursed in
Bannockburn in Southern Rhodesia to the border                  June 1954.
of Portuguese East Africa is proceeding on sched-    Total: $110 million.
ule, and is expected to be complete in the first        The two loans made during the fiscal year,
half of 1955.  This new track will connect with    like the earlier loans, were to provide additions
a line being built by the Portuguese Government    to electric power and transportation service made
to the port of Lourenco Marques, and will give     necessary by the rapid expansion of the economy.
the land-locked territories served by the Rhodesia  The fast growth of industry and the expansion of
Railways a new outlet to the sea.                  gold mining operations in the Orange Free State
during the postwar period have put a heavy and
Southern Rhodesia                                  continuing strain on public services, and especial-
Fiscal $28 million 25-year 43Y4% loan of Febru-  ly on the railway system and power supply.
1952:     ary 27, 1952 to the Colony of South-        The Bank has now lent $50 million to im-
ern Rhodesia for power development.
Guaranteed by the United Kingdom.     prove transportation in the Union.  The $20 mil-
Total: $28 million.                              lion loan of January 1951 was used mainly for
This loan is helping to finance imports of    the import of locomotives and rolling stock, work-
equipment and materials required in a program      shop machinery and structural materials needed
to expand the supply of electric power.  The pro-    through March 1953.  The $30 million loan of
gram is part of Southern Rhodesia's general plan   August 1953 is helping to finance imports needed
gram economic development during the four years    from that time to March 1956; most of it is being
for economic development during the four years    applied to the purchase of steam  and electric
ending in March 1955.  Power facilities are being    locomoti e fre has            and   eq ent
increased by the installation of about 230,000     financed by the two loans should help the rail-
kilowatts of new thermal generating capacity, the
et o m 0i n lways meet the increase of nine million tons of
erection of some 2,000 miles of transmission lines,    traffic expected in the two years ending March
and the installation of additional distributing    1955.  A small part of each loan was also al-
equipment.                                         located to the purchase of road vehicles and harbor
During the program's third year, ending in    craft.
March 1954, 90,000 kilowatts were added to gen-         The two power loans, amounting to a total
erating capacity.  The projects financed by the    of $60 million, were made to the Electricity Sup-
loan are progressing on schedule and by June       ply Commission (ESCOM) which supplies about
30, 1954, $20.6 million of the loan had been    three-quarters of the electricity consumed in the
withdrawn.                                         Union.  ESCOM is carrying out an expansion pro-
gram that will increase its generating capacity by
Union of South Africa                              80%  between 1952 and 1958.  The $30 mil-
Fiscal $30 million 20-year 4% loan of January 23,  lion loan of January 1951 paid for imports of
1951:     1951 to Electricity Supply Commis-     electrical equipment during a two-year period;
sion for power development. Fully
disbursed by October 1953.            it was completely disbursed in October 1953.
$20 million 15-year 3344% loan of January  The $30 million loan of August 1953 is helping
23, 1951 for expansion of transporta-   finance         needed for the continuation of
tion  facilities. Fully disbursed by  to        imports
March 1953.                           the program; it is being applied particularly to
Fiscal $30 million 10-year 43/4% loan of August  the purchase of turbo-generators, boilers, struc-
1954:     28, 1953 to Electricity Supply Com-
mission for power development.        tural materials and electrical supplies.
[20)



AUSTRALASIA
Australia                                               Considering the three loans together, agri-
Fisca*  $100 million 25-year 4V4% loan of August  culture and transportation are receiving the larg-
1951:     22, 1950 for development program.      est amounts of the proceeds.  Nearly $70 million
Fully disbursed by December 1953.     has been allocated to tractors, trucks and agricul-
Fiscal $50 million 20-year 43/4%  loan of July 8,  tural machinery.  Equipment such as combine
1953:     1952 for development program.
Fiscal $54 million 15-year 43/4% loan of March   harvesters, hay balers, corn planters and pickers
1954:     2, 1954 for development program.       and specialized tractors have contributed to the
Total: $204 million.                             recent gains in agricultural productivity in Aus-
With the $54 million loan made in March    tralia.  During the years 1951-1953, some 3.4
1954, the Bank has lent a total of $204 million    million acres were approved for inclusion in the
to Australia to assist in carrying out large-scale    War Service Land Settlement scheme.  This land
development in both public and private sectors    has provided more than 2,000 new farm holdings,
of the economy.  Most of the equipment needed      and much of the equipment financed by the Bank
for these undertakings is being financed by Aus-    is being used in the development of these farms.
tralia, either locally or through its sterling re-    In the 1953-54 season, production of most of
sources.  But Australia's needs for certain equip-    Australia's main agricultural products had nearly
ment essential to various development plans could    reached the targets set for 1957-58.
only be met in the dollar area, and it is for pur-      About $67 million is being spent for im-
chases of this equipment that the three loans have    provement of the railways, for modernization and
made dollar exchange available.  The two earlier    expansion of air travel service, and for better
loans have now been almost completely disbursed.    road transport.  The re-equipment of railways,
particularly the dieselization of sections of track
Th  motrcn.oni  aigfrawd                     where provision of water for steam locomotives
range of imported capital goods and equipment.     whrpovsnofatrortenlcmtis
rNgew  ofrimportedlcapitalegoodslandeequipment.    had been a serious problem, has brought about a
Newt agicul tulyforalmpro equipmentwil bs ud opar-    marked improvement in rail service at lower cost.
ticularly for improving existing farms and open-        The Bank's loans are also being used for
ing new areas to cultivation. Transport equipment          poe    development, and  ne  thermal
includes trucks suited to Australian road condi-    plants  wit   a etotl enti   api  of 150,-
tion, coponets or te doestc maufacure plants with a total generating capacity of 150,-
tions, components for the domestic manufacture    000 kilowatts are either already in operation or
of diesel locomotives, and 12 aircraft, for which  will shortly be completed.  Other funds from
the loan will provide part of the cost, for Aus-    the loans have been allocated to help increase pro-
tralia's domestic and international air services.    duction of coal and metals, and for the purchase
Other goods include equipment to construct and     of manufacturing equipment to increase produc-
maintain roads, and for various manufacturing    tion in the steel, automotive, food-processing, tex-
industries.                                        tile and other industries.
EUROPE
Austria                                            natural resources remaining to be developed in
Negotiation of a loan for the Reisseck-Kreu-    Europe.  The project, begun in 1947, was about
zeck power project in southern Austria is well    one-third completed and already in partial op-
advanced.  This project will be an important step  eration at the end of 1953; and the contemplated
in realizing Austria's potential for the generation    loan, consisting primarily of Italian lire and Swiss
of hydroelectric power, which is one of the chief    francs and amounting to the equivalent of $12
[211



million, would provide about half the funds           Finland
necessary to complete it.  Work yet to be done          Fiscal $12.5 million 15-year 4%  loan of August
on the project includes the expansion of generat-        1950:      1, 1949 to Bank of Finland for de-
ing capacity at the main power station from  25,-                   velom nt ofpower, wood-products
industries and limestone powder pro-
000 to 104,000 kilowatts; the construction of a                     duction. Fully disbursed by December
new  8,000-kilowatt station; a pumping station;                     1953.
dams, tunnels, canals and other civil works.  The               $2.3 million 2-year 3%  loan of October
17, 1949 for equipment for timber
project is expected to be complete by the end of                    production; reduced at request of bor-
1958.  About one-third of the power produced                        rower on September 30, 1951 to $2.1
million. This loan has been completely
by the project will be exported to Italy under a                    repaid.
long-term contract.                                     Fiscal $20 million 18-year 43/4%  loan of April
1952:      30, 1952 to Bank of Finland for devel-
opment of power and wood-products
Belgium                                                             industries and for agricultural im-
Firc.il $16 million 20-year 414%I loan of March                   provement.
1949:      1, 1949 for steel plants and electric      Fiscal Swedish kronor 18 million ($3.48 million)
1949.   1 1949wfr.  selpat                          1953:      18-year 4/%' loan of November 13,
power.                                                 1952 to Bank of Finland for woodl-
Fiscal $30 million 25-year 42%c loan of Septem-                  products industries.
1952:      ber 13, 1951 for development of the
Belgian Congo. Made simultaneous-          Total: $38.08 million ($ equivalent), net of can-
ly with loan of $40 million to the Bel-               cellations.
gian Congo (See page 18).                     Bank funds made available for the moderni-
Total: $46 million.                                 zation and expansion of the wood-products indus-
The $16 million loan has been almost com-        try have amounted to the equivalent of more than
pletely disbursed.  A balance of $1.8 million not      $23  million: $10.5 million from  the loan of
needed for the original projects has been reallo-     August 1949, $9.5  million  from  the loan of
cated to finance part of the cost of a hot strip fin-  April 1952, and all of the 18 million Swedish
ishing mill being built by S.A. d'Ougr6e-Marihaye.    kronor (about $3.48 million) lent in November
Shipment of equipment began late in 1953; the          1952.  In each case the Bank of Finland, which
mill is expected to be complete in July and to    is the borrower, has re-lent the funds to well-
begin operations in August 1954.                      established firms in the industry for the purchase
All but $1.2 million of the $30 million loan     of equipment.  The loan of August 1949 was
made in September 1951 for the development Of    fully disbursed in December 1953.  The projects
the Belgian Congo has now been disbursed.  The        being financed under the later loans have pro-
gressed satisfactorily and no difficulties are ex-
loan was designed to reduce the pressure on Bel-      g
pected which would delay their completion by
gium's foreign exchange position resulting from         ted  of 1955.  By     the  impronts
Belgium's contribution to the development of the      should ru  i          n the         increas enpr
Congo. Withdrawals under the loan are not re-          dutecact             in     sulphate    p,5C
lated to specific imports but are geared to the rate    in newsprint and 501%o in kraft and writing paper.
Of public investment in the Congo Development               Power projects being financed with the help
Plan as a whole.                                      of $9.5 million from  the $20 million loan of
Denmark                                               April 1952 are somewhat behind schedule and
are now expected to be completed in 1958.  They
Fiscal $40 million 25-year 41/4c-% loan of August   will add 275,000 kilowatts to Finland's generat-
1948:      22, 1947 for reconstruction. Fully dis-
bursed by March 1949.                    ng capacity and icrease supplies of power by
Total: $40 million.                                 one-third.
{22}



Most of the $1 million which had been    ing the general economic and financial situation
allocated to the purchase of agricultural equip-    and evaluating the Government's long-term  in-
ment out of the $20 million loan has been dis-    vestment program.  The mission noted the prog-
bursed.  The equipment arrived in Finland in    ress that had been made in achieving balance of
October 1953 and because of favorable weather    payments equilibrium, increasing production and
conditions was in operation well into the winter    stabilizing the value of the currency.  On the basis
months. It is being used to clear land for settle-    of the mission's findings the Bank has informed
ment, to drain marshlands, clear river courses    the Government that it believes a close and con-
to improve timber floating operations, and to open    tinuing relationship can be established between
new roads into the forests.                        the Bank and Greece.  The Bank plans to send
The Government has discussed with the Bank    a mission to Greece in July to begin the examina-
the possibility of additional loans in various Eu-
ropean currencies mainly for the wood-products         of   if poe  proposals.
industries and electric power.  A Bank mission          Early in the year the Government began to
visited Finland in April and May 1954 to review    study the problem of the defaulted internal and
the economic situation  and to study  possible    external prewar debt.  In June 1954 the Gov-
projects.                                          ernment invited representatives of the foreign
France                                             bondholders to negotiate a settlement.
Fiscal $250 million 30-year 41/4% loan of May    Iceland
1947:     9, 1947: to Cr6dit National for recon-
struction. Fully disbursed by January   Fiscal 875,000 ($2,450,000) 22-year 438% loan
1948.                                   1951:      of June 20, 1951 for power develop-
Total: $250 million.                                          ment. Fully disbursed by February
A loan of $7.5 million for modernization of                1954.
the railways in French West Africa, made to the      Fiscal 360,000  ($1,008,000)  22-year 4'/2%
1952:     loan of November 1, 1951 for agri-
Central Office for French Overseas Railways on                  cultural development. Fully disbursed
June 10, 1954, is guaranteed by the Government                  by March 1953.
of France. A description ofteloanisgivenon Fiscal $854,000 equivalent in European currencies
of France. A description of the loan iS given on     1953:      17-year 43/4%  loan of August 26,
page 19.                                                        1952 for a fertilizer plant. Fully dis-
bursed by April 1954.
Germainy                                             Fiscal $1,350,000 equivalent in European curren-
In June 1953 discussions were begun be-         1954:      cies 22-year 5%' loan of September 4,
1953 to Iceland Bank of Development
tween the Government and the Bank about the                     for agricultural development.
possibility of Bank loans to the Industriekredit-           90,000 ($252,000) 12-year 43/,% loan of
September 4, 1953 to Iceland Bank of
bank for the re-equipment of certain export in-                 Development for building to house
dustries, and to August Thyssen Hutte for the                   radio transmitter equipment.
construction of a cold strip rolling mill. In Febru-  Total: $5,914,000 ($ equivalent).
ary 1954 the Government withdrew its request            The Bank has now made two loans to help
for loans for these projects, when it became clear    a program  for agricultural development.  The
that the dollar requirements were much less than   360,000 loan of November 1951 helped to pay
had originally been expected and were not of suffi-    for imports needed during 1952; the $1,350,000
cient magnitude to require Bank assistance.        loan of September 1953 is financing imported
Greece                                             equipment and materials needed through 1954.
A  Bank mission spent several weeks in             The agricultural program  aims to increase
Greece during September and October 1953 study-    farm production by 50%  by 1965, and should
(23 1



improve the country's foreign exchange position    tions were completed and formally opened in the
considerably, through import savings and export    latter part of 1953.  The Sog station is supplying
earnings.  Good progress has been made toward    electricity to Iceland's capital, Reykjavik, and to
achieving the annual targets established for the    the surrounding area, in which are concentrated
program.  There was a 15 % increase in the num-    50%o of Iceland's population and over 80%  of
ber of sheep from 1952 to 1953; more than 7,000    its industries.  It should meet all demands in the
acres of new grassland were cleared and seeded;    area until about 1957.  The Laxa station has in-
and sheds were built to house 1,200 cattle and     creased the supply of electricity to an area which
11,800 sheep.                                      includes Akureyri, the second largest city in Ice-
The 90,000 loan of September 1953 was    land, and should meet its growing power require-
made to finance the construction of a building to  ments until about 1960.
house some of the radio equipment operated by           The $854,000 loan for the construction of
the Icelandic Post and Telegraph Administration    a nitrogen fertilizer plant was fully disbursed on
for civilian aircraft flying over the North Atlantic.    April 15, 1954.  The plant was completed early
The equipment is at present sheltered in an in-    in 1954 and began operating in April.  At full
adequate temporary structure and a new building    capacity it can produce 18,000 tons of ammonium
is needed to assure adequate and reliable service.    nitrate annually, which will meet Iceland's needs
Construction started shortly after the loan was    for fertilizer and furnish a surplus for export.
made and has since progressed satisfactorily. The
new building should be completed and the equip-    Italy
ment transferred and installed by September 1954.    Fiscal $10 million 25-year 41/2%  loan of Octo-
Under an arrangement administered by the         1952:     ber 10, 1951 to Cassa per Opere Stra-
ordinarie di Pubblico Interesse nell'
International   Civil   Aviation   Organization                 Italia Meridionale (Cassa per il Mez-
(ICAO), the cost of the radio service is paid from              zogiorno) for development of south-
contributions by 11 countries, including Iceland,               ern Italy. Fully disbursed by Septem-
whose airlines operate over the North Atlantic.      Fiscal $10 million 25-year 5%  loan of October
ICAO  has arranged for increased contributions       1954:       6, 1953 to Cassa per Opere Stra-
ordinarie di Pubblica Interesse nell'
from these countries to assure sufficient revenue               Italia Meridionale (Cassa per il Mez-
to service the Bank's loan.  Maintenance of the                 zogiorno) for development of south-
ern Italy.
radio service will help Iceland to continue to earn
foreign exchange from international aviation, and    Total: $20 million.
benefit the airlines of the participating countries.    These two loans were made to meet the in-
Both loans made during the year were made     creased demand for dollar imports arising from
to the Iceland Bank of Development, established    expanded economic activity and employment gen-
in 1953 along lines recommended by the Inter-    erated by the Government's program for the de-
national Bank.  In February 1954 the Minister    velopment of southern Italy and the islands of
of Finance notified the Bank that the Iceland Bank  Sicily and Sardinia.
of Development would in future be responsible           The program, being administered by the
for the administration of all Bank loans to Ice-    Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, has been extended for
land.                                              two years and now is intended to cover a 12-year
The loan of 875,000, made in June 1951       period ending in 1962.  It contemplates expendi-
to pay for imports from Europe for hydroelectric    tures of about 100 billion lire ($160 million) a
plants on the Sog and Laxa Rivers, was complete-    year.  Three-quarters of the expenditures will be
ly disbursed in February 1954.  Both power sta-    for the development of agriculture through land
t241



reclamation, irrigation, flood control and soil con-                These loans were sold to private in-
vestors in 1948 and 1949, and were
servation.  About eight million acres of land will                  repaid by July 1953, five years before
be reclaimed.  Of this, about 900,000 acres, or                     final maturity.
10 times as many as before, will be irrigated; the      Fiscal $15 million 15-year 4%  loan of July 26,
1950:      1949 to Maatschappij tot Financiering
rest will be drained, leveled and cleared.  About                   van het Nationaal Herstel N.V. (Her-
a quarter of the funds will be spent on roads, water                stelbank) for industrial re-equipment
projects; reduced at request of bor-
works and tourist facilities.  Completion of 44                     rower to $7.5 million, which amount
aqueducts will provide drinking water for about                     had been disbursed by December 1953.
1,000 communities.  The construction of some            Fiscal $7 million 6-year 41/V8%  loan of March
1952:      20, 1952 to Koninklijke Luchtvaart
1,300 miles of new roads and the repair of 6,400                    Maatschappij N.V. (KLM) for pur-
miles of existing roads are to be carried out by                    chase of aircraft. Fully disbursed by
the end of 1954.                                 ~~~~~~~~~August 1953.
the end of 1954.                                         Total: $221.5 million, net of cancellations.
Disbursement of the Bank's loans has been              Final disbursements under the $15 million
geared to investment expenditures by the Cassa    loan of July 1949 (subsequently reduced to $7.5
per il Mezzogiorno. The first loan was completely     million) to the Herstelbank were made in Decem-
disbursed in September 1953. The lira counter-        ber 1953.  The textile industry absorbed about
part of the two loans is being re-lent by the Cassa   half the proceeds, and the chemical industry about
to finance projects located within the regions be-    one-third; the rest was divided among firms in the
ing developed. Projects financed with the counter-    metal, electrical, glass and paper industries.
part of the first loan have included a superphos-           The $7 million loan to KLM  (Royal Dutch
phate plant, a welded tube plant, two cement    Airlines) was completely disbursed in August
plants and a woolen mill; the counterpart of the       1953; by the end of December 1953, all the air-
second loan is to be used for power development.    craft being purchased under KLM's modernization
and re-equipment program had been delivered and
Luxembourg                                            put into service. The Bank's loan financed about
Fiscal $12 million 25-year 41/4e%O loan of August   one-fifth of the cost of the program, which included
1948:      28, 1947 for equipment for steel mill    the purchase in the United States of 23 aircraft,.
and railroads; reduced at request of     17 for inter-continental flights and six for Euro-
borrower on December 19, 1949 to
$11.8 million, which was disbursed       pean routes.
by the end of that month.
Total: $11.8 million, net of cancellations.         Norway
The Netherlands                                         Fiscal $25 million 20-year 43/40%o loan of April
1954:      8, 1954 for economic development.
Fiscal $195 million 25-year 44%  loan of August      Total: $25 million.
1948:      7, 1947 for reconstruction. Fully dis-
bursed by June 1948.                          The general lines of Norway's investment
Fiscal $12 million 10-year 39/16%  loans of July    policy have been set out in a long-term program
1949:      15, 1948 to N. V. Stoomvaart Maat-
schappij "Nederland" (two loans of      for the period 1954-1957.  Particular emphasis
$2 million each), N. V. Vereenigde      is being laid on export industries, which account
Nederlandsche Scheepvaartmaatschap-
pij (one loan of $2 million), N. V.      for more than one-third of the country's total pro-
Nederlandsch - Amerikaansche Scoom-      duction, and on shipping, which is one of Nor-
vaart-Maatschappij 'Holland-Amerika         ,
Lijn" (one loan of $2 million), and      way's major sources of foreign exchange earnngs.
N. V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd (two loans          While the Bank's loan is intended to help
of $2 million each), for purchase of
ships. Fully disbursed by August 1948.  Norway carry forward economic development in
[251



general, disbursements will be linked to the de-    equipment from abroad.  These projects are sub-
livery of merchant ships being built in foreign    mitted to the International Bank for approval be-
shipyards.  During 1954 more than one-fifth of    fore loans are made.
total Norwegian investment will be in shipping.         From the start of its operations in 1951 to
In general, Norwegian ship owners have sufficient    the end of May 1954 the Development Bank had
resources and credit in their own currency to fi-    granted 221 loans amounting to 98.5 million
nance this expansion.  For the economy as a    Turkish liras (about $35 million).  The Devel-
whole, however, the payments to be made abroad     opment Bank's loans were made for a wide variety
for ships impose a heavy burden.  Largely as a    of industrial projects, the main fields of activity
result of these payments, Norway will need addi-    being cotton and wool processing, the manufacture
tional amounts of foreign exchange estimated at    of building materials, and food processing.  Indi-
the equivalent of $52 million in 1954.  The        vidual loan applications approved by the Interna-
Bank's loan will cover $25 million of this amount.   tional Bank as of June 30, 1954 totaled the equiv-
By the end of June 1954 the Bank had disbursed     alent of $9.6 million and provided foreign ex-
$10 million of the loan.                           change for 33 of these projects.
Two United States commercial banks are             Since its establishment the Development
participating in the loan to the extent of $2,016,-    Bank has made an important contribution to the
000, without the Bank's guarantee.  The Bank of    development of private industry in Turkey, not
America has purchased $1,512,000 and The Phil-    only through its own investments but also by
adelphia National Bank $504,000 of the first four    stimulating investment from other sources.  As a
maturities falling due semi-annually from October    rule, the capital invested by the Development
15, 1957 through April 15, 1959.                   Bank's borrowers in each project has exceeded the
Turkey                                             amount lent by the Development Bank itself. The
Fiscal  P12.5 million 25-year 4V49loan of July   Development Bank has also mobilized private
Fscal $12.5 million 25-year 41d4% loan of July   capital through the issue of its own stock, and the
1951:     7, 1950 for development of ports.
$3.9 million 18-year 37/8% loan of July 7,  successful sale of new shares soon after the second
1950 for grain storage facilities.    International Bank loan was made attests to the
$9 million 15-year 3YVi% loan of October  high standing that the Development Bank has
19, 1950 to Industrial Development
Bank of Turkev for development of     among investors in Turkey.  The issue, which was
private industry.                     equal in amount to the original share capital of
Fiscal $25.2 million 25-year 44%  loan of June  12.5 million Turkish liras, was oversubscribed,
1952:     18, 1952 for multipurpose dam and
power facilities on the Seyhan River.  and the number of shareholders rose from 33 to
Fiscal $9 million 15-year 4;7/8% loan of Septem-  287.  To further replenish its Turkish lira funds,
1954:     ber 10, 1953 to Industrial Develop-    the Development Bank also obtained a loan of
ment Bank of Turkey for develop-
ment of private industry.             T.L. 6.25 million from the Central Bank and the
$3.8 million 212-year 47/8% loan of Feb-  Is Bank of Turkey.
ruary 26, 1954 for development of
ports.                                     In February 1954 the International Bank
Total: $63.4 million.                            made a loan of $3.8 million to supplement the
A second loan of $9 million was made to    $12.5 million lent in July 1950 for a series of
the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey in    port improvement and  construction  projects.
September 1953.  This, like the earlier loan, fur-    This supplemental loan will cover an increase in
nished the Development Bank with foreign ex-    foreign exchange requirements brought about by
change to re-lend to private industrial concerns    technical revisions in the projects and by increased
for projects requiring imports of machinery and    prices of imported equipment and materials.
[ 26 1



Since the time of the $1 2.5 million loan the    stantial progress had been made on the dam foun-
physical volume of Turkey's foreign trade has in-    dation. The major permanent equipment has
creased by about 90% and domestic trade has also    been ordered and contract prices for the equip-
increased greatly.  The improvements being car-    ment were somewhat lower than the estimates at
ried out are those most urgently needed to relieve    the time the loan was negotiated.
harbor congestion and to raise operational effici-   The  .ukurova Utility  Power Company,
ency.                                            which will own and operate the power facilities
Most of the engineering designs of the port    of the Seyhan project, has been licensed by the
projects have been completed. The permanent    Government.  Private investors, who have a ma-
equipment, predominantly for handling cargo, has    jority interest in the Company, have subscribed 14
been delivered at six ports and most of it is in op-    million Turkish liras of the issued capital; of rhis
eration. Construction is under way on the ex-    amount 4 million has been paid in and another
pansion of the ports of Salipazar and Haydarpasa    3.5 million will be paid by December 1954.  A
on the Bosphorus.  The mechanical equipment    State Waterworks Administration, which was
for handling grain, chrome ore and coal at Isken-    established by law in December 1953, will be
derun on the Mediterranean has been ordered and    in charge of completing, operating and maintain-
a contract has been awarded for the substructure    ing the irrigation facilities of the project.
work. Bids have been invited for the construc-
tion at Alsancak (the port of Izmir) on the    Yugoslavia
Aegean, and the preliminary work of preparing
the site has been completed on the new port at    Fiscal $2.7 million 2-year 3%  loan of October
Samsun on the Black Sea.                           1950:     17, 1949 for equipment for timber
production. Fully disbursed by De-
Most of the projects being financed under the           cember 1950, and now completely
$3.9 million grain storage loan of July 1950 have  F         repaid.
Fiscal $28 million equivalent in European cur-
been completed.  The 29 new steel storage sheds,  1952:      rencies 25-year 42%  loan of Octo-
at 21 inland points, have been built; most of them           ber 11, 1951 for power, mining, in-
were available for storing the 1953 harvest and     .        dustrial and other projects.
Fiscal $30 million equivalent in European cur-
all of them are ready for 1954.  Eight of the      1953:     rencies 25-year 478F% loan of Febru-
nine inland silos have been completed; three of              ary 11, 1953 for power, mining, in-
them were in operation by December 195 3 and all             dustrial and other projects.
of them will be ready for 1954 crops. Construction
of the new reinforced concrete silos at the ports    The non-dollar loans of October 1951 and
of Iskenderun and Haydarpasa will be finished by    February 1953 have financed the import of key
December 1954; the silo at the port of Izmir is   items needed for projects in all the major sectors
scheduled for completion by mid-1955.  The    of the economy.  Good progress has been made
2,000 tarpaulins, purchased with the loan, are   toward completing the more than 50 projects al-
being used throughout the country where ware-    though the severe winter in 1954 hampered con-
house space is not available.                    struction of several.  A  number of industrial
Progress on the multipurpose dam  and    projects, for example the Pancevo glass plant and
power facilities on the Seyhan river, for which a    the Blazuj plywood mill, have been completed
loan of $25.2 million was made in June 1952, is   and are in operation.  Others, such as the Sisak
good. The detailed engineering design of the    seamless pipe mill and the Zenica steel mill, al-
project has been completed. By December the    though not completed, are already in partial
river had been diverted and by March 1954 sub-    operation.  In  addition, Bank-financed  invest-
[271



ments have increased the effective capacity of             The Bank has followed the economic situa-
electric power stations and distribution networks,    tion in Yugoslavia closely during the year, and
coal and metal mines and industrial plants.  All    has had frequent discussions with Yugoslav au-
but a few of the projects are expected to be com-     thorities on the course of their investment pro-
plete and in operation by the end of 1954.            gram.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE
President's Visit to Latin America                             $18.79 million 20-year 47/8% loan of Feb-
ruary 24, 1954 to Brazilian Traction,
In February and March 1954 the President                      Light and Power Company, Limited,
of the Bank spent four weeks visiting member                        for power development.
countries in Central and South America, and dis-        Total: $194.09 million.
cussed their problems of economic development.             The $7.3 million loan of July 1953 is being
The countries visited were El Salvador, Honduras,    used to finance imported equipment for a hydro-
Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Ecuador, Uru-          electric power project in the  State of Minas
guay and Brazil.  At the invitation of the Gov-       Gerais. The co-borrowers are the Centrais Eletri-
ernment, he also spent a few days in Argentina.    cas de Minas Gerais, a state-owned power company,
and one of its operating subsidiaries, the Compan-
Brazil                                                hia de Eletricidade do Alto Rio Grande. The proj-
Fiscal $75 million 25-year 4%  loan of Jan-         ect includes the building of a dam at Itutinga Falls
1949:      uary 27, 1949 to Brazilian Traction,     on the Rio Grande, the construction of a power
Light and Power Company, Limited,       station  with  24,000  kilowatts  of generating
for power and telephone development.
Fully disbursed by December 1953.       capacity, and the erection of transmission lines and
Fiscal  15 million 25-year 444% loan of May 26,   substations. Itutinga lies within  the industrial
1950:      1950 to Companhia Hidro Eletrica do     complex of Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and
Sao Francisco for power development.    Volta Redonda.  The area contains important de-
Fiscal $15 million 25-year 414%  loan of Jan-
1951:      uary 18, 1951 to Brazilian Traction,     posits of iron, manganese and tin-bearing ores.
Light and Power Company, Limited,       Industry will take about 80%  of the power to be
for power development. Fully dis-       generated at the new plant and the remainder will
bursed by December 1953.
Fiscal $25 million 25-year 43/4%  loan of June      be taken by public utilities serving three small
1952:      27, 1952 to Comissao Esradual de En-    towns.
ergia El&trica of Rio Grande do Sul
for power development.                       The $12.5 million loan of December 1953
$12.5 million 15-year 45/8% loan of June    to the Government is the second the Bank has
27, 1952 for improvement of railways.   made for an emergency program  to improve the
Fiscal $3 million 5-year 41/4% loan of April 30,    services of the Central Railroad.  The first loan,
1953:      1953 for highway improvements,           also for $12.5 million, was made in June 1952 to
Fiscal $7.3 million 20-year 5%  loan of July 17,    finance the equipment most urgently needed to
1954:      1953 to Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais, S.A. and Companhia de Elet-     improve the Central's freight service.  The more
ricidade do Alto Rio Grande for pow-    recent loan is for the suburban services of the Cen-
er development.                         tral and will help to finance the import of 100
$12.5 million 15-year 47/8%  loan of De-
cember 18, 1953 for improvement of      electric motor cars, 100 trailer cars, parts for an-
railways.                               other 100 trailer cars to be assembled in Brazil,
$10 million 20-year 5%o loan of December    and spare parts. The Central's suburban service is
18, 1953 to Usinas Eletricas do Para-   an important means of transport for industrial,
napanema, S.A. for power develop-
ment.                                   commercial and government workers living in the
{281



suburbs of Rio de Janeiro and in the areas ad-    the help of the Bank have already added over
joining the Federal District. Properly equipped    400,000 kilowatts of generating capacity to the
and operated, the service should be the best and    Brazilian Traction system. The only project not
cheapest form of mass suburban transport in the    essentially complete is the Nilo Pecanha (for-
area.                                            merly Forqacava) power station, in the Rio de
The $10 million loan of December 1953 is   Janeiro area, where two 65,000-kilowatt generat-
helping to finance the foreign exchange costs of    ing units out of a total of six have yet to be
a hydroelectric project consisting of a dam across    installed.
the Paranapanema River at Salto Grande, a hydro-     Work has continued to go forward on the
electric plant with a generating capacity of 60,000  hydroelectric project on the Sao Francisco River,
kilowatts, and associated transmission and distribu-    for which the Bank made a $15 million loan to
tion facilities in the States of Sao Paulo and Par-   the Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco in
ana. The power will serve rapidly expanding      1950.  Construction of the power station and in-
ana.~~~~~~~~~~ stallation of the equipment were expected to be
agricultural and urban centers in this coffee-grow-
ing region, and will enable the Sorocabana Rail-   complete during the second half of 1954; and the
road, one of the important railways in Sfio Paulo,    connecting transmission lines to Recife and Sal-
to electrify more of its system.                 vador have been erected.  Construction difficul-
ties, caused by the extremely swift flow of the
The $18.79 million loan of February 1954    river and by irregularities of the river bottom.
tO the Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Coin-    have delayed the completion of the dam  across
pany will finance imported equipment to be in-    the main stream.
stalled in a 160,000-kilowatt thermal electric       Progress on the hydroelectric and thermal
power plant at Piratininga near the city of Sao    power projects in the State of Rio Grande do Sul,
Paulo.  To meet the demand for additional pow-    being financed with the help of the $25 million
er in this important industrial center, Sao Paulo    loan to the Comissao Estadual de Energia E1et-
Light and Power Company, a subsidiary of Bra-    rica (CEEE), has been considerably slower than
zilian Traction, began construction of the plant in    expected. This is due to delays in placing orders
1952. A thermal power plant was chosen be-   for equipment and to difficulty in obtaining a
cause it could be more quickly brought into opera-    sufficient number of experienced engineers for
tion than additional hydroelectric capacity and    CEEE. A number of European engineers, how-
because eventually it would guarantee a larger    ever, have now  been engaged by CEEE. The
amount of continuous power from the Company's    projects are part of a State program for the con-
hydroelectric system. Droughts have frequently    struction of new and the enlargement of existing
reduced hydroelectric output in the Sao Paulo    power generating and transmitting facilities that
area, and in the past three years the waters in the    will add about 130,000 kilowatts to generating
Company's reservoir have fallen to one-fifth of    capacity within the State.
normal storage. The Piratininga plant is sched-      Satisfactory progress is now being made un-
uled for completion by the latter part of 1954.  der the Bank's $3 million loan for a program of
The $75 million loan of 1949 and the sup-    highway maintenance and construction in the
plemental credit of $15 million in 1951 have    State of Rio de Janeiro.  Earlier administrative
been financing projects within an 8-year program  difficulties in getting import licenses for equip-
of Brazilian Traction to expand its electric power    ment have been overcome. Equipment is now
and telephone services in the areas of Sao Paulo    arriving in substantial quantities and the pace of
and Rio de Janeiro. Most of the projects are com-    construction and maintenance work should there-
plete; and power installations financed  with    fore be much accelerated.
[29 1



To establish closer contact between the Bank    toward exploring possibilities in the interior of
and Brazil, the Bank has established a Resident    the colony for the development of hydroelectric
Representative in Brazil with headquarters in Rio    power, timber production, cattle raising and min-
de Janeiro.  He took up his duties in May 1954.    ing.
British Guiana                                     British Honduras
In August 1953 the Bank transmitted to the         At the request of the Government, a Bank
Governor of British Guiana the report of the gen-    representative visited British Honduras in June
eral survey mission which visited the colony in    1954 to discuss the colony's development program.
February and March 1953.  In March 1954 the        Chile
Legislative Council approved in principle an ex-     cal      3
paddand accelerated development program for      Fiscal $13.5 millio4n 20-year 41r2% loan FofMarch
panded adaclrtddvlpetpormfr                          1948:      25, 1948 to Corporaci6a de Fomento
the years 1954 and 1955 based largely on the                    de la Producci6n (Fomento) and Em-
mission's recommendations.                                      presa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A.
(Endesa) for power development.
The mission recommended an investment                  $2.5 million 61/-year 3z% loan of March
program designed to increase national income by                 25, 1948 to Corporaci6n de Fomento
. , . ~~~~~~~de la Producci6n  fo r ag,ricultural
20%' and per capita income by 6%fo over the nextdel    rucinf-aiutrl
20   and per capita income by 6% over the next  machinery. Fully disbursed by Decem-
five years.  The program would require govern-                  ber 1949.
ment expenditure of 66 million British West In-      Fiscal $1.3 million 10-year 43,)% loan of October
1952:     10, 1951 to Corporaci6ni de Fornento
dies dollars (equivalent to U.S. $38.5 million)                 de la Producci6n for exploratian and
over the five years from  1954 through 1958.                    use of water resources of the Rio
Most of this amount, in the opinion of the mis-                 Elqui Valley.
sFiscal $20 million 17-year 5%6 loan of September
sion, could be financed from the internal and ex-    1954:      10, 1953 to Corporaci6n de Fomento
ternal resources normally available to the Govern-              de la Producci6n and Compamia Man-
ment.                                                           ufacturera de Papeles y Cartones S.A.
ment.                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for construction of paper and pulp
The largest investment was recommended                     mills.
for agriculture.  The mission emphasized the im-     Total: $37.3 million.
portance of increasing the production of food           The loan of $20 million made in September
crops and recommended, among other things, the     1953 to a privately-owned corporation, Compania
expansion of agricultural research and extension   Manufacturera de Papeles y Cartones, and to the
services as aids to the small-scale farming which  Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Produccion as co-
is becoming more customary in British Guiana.      borrower, is helping to finance the construction of
Improvement of transportation  and com-    a chemical pulp mill and a newsprint paper mill
munications, and especially of roads, was regarded  near Concepci6n.  The newsprint paper mill will
by the mission as likewise deserving priority in   make about 44,000 tons of newsprint and 6,600
the public investment program.  Proposals were    tons of boxboard a year from mechanical pulp,
also made for expanding industries based on tim-    chemical pulp and scrap paper. The chemical pulp
ber and agricultural resources, and for improve-    mill will make about 50,000 tons of chemical
ments in education and housing.                    pulp and 10,000 tons of kraft paper annually.
The mission urged that the groundwork be    The main equipment for the mills has been or-
laid now for projects to be undertaken after 1958,    dered and the preparation of the plant sites is well
the last year of its proposed program.  It em-    under way.
phasized particularly the desirability of studies       The establishment of the new mills will be
looking toward new land reclamation projects and   an important step toward the fuller use of Chile's
{301



extensive forest resources. In 1952 the Bank-FAO      rest of the Bank's loan would be used to pay for
agricultural mission stressed the importance of       equipment to pump the water for irrigation.
forestry, pointing out that timber resources could
become 2n important source of foreign exchange        Colombia
earnings and a valuable means of diversifying            Fiscal $5 million 7-year 31V2%  loan of August
Chilean exports.  The new plants will not only           1950:      19, 1949 to Caja de Cr6dito Agrario,
Industrial y Minero for agricultural
eliminate the neecd tO import chemical pulp and                     machinery; reduced at request of bot-
newsprint but will produce a surplus of these                       rower on April 2, 1951 to $4.9 mil-
products for expcrt.                                                lion, which had been disbursed by
February 1951.
Work on the hydroelectric power projects           Fiscal $3.53 million 20-year 4%  loan of Novem-
carried out bv Endesa under the $13.5 mil-        1951:       ber 2, 1950 to Central Hidroelectrica
being                                            del Rio AnchicayA, Limitada, for pow-
lion loan of March 1948 has been proceeding                         er development.
,atisfactorilyduring the year.  Endesa's operations             $2.6 million 20-year 4%  loan of Decem-
ber 28, 1950 to Central Hidroel6c-
continue to be hampered by a shortage of local                      trica de Caldas, Limitada, for power
currency but it is hoped that nearly all of the pro-                development. Fully disbursed by July
gram wili be completed by the end of 1954.  One                     1953.
ofam the three generating units to be installed atthe$16.5 million 10-year 37/s% loan of April
of the three generatinc, units to be installed at the               10, 1951 for highway construction and
Los Cipreses plant near Santiago (two of which                      rehabilitation.
are being financed by the Bank) is expected to go       Fiscal $2.4 million 20-year 415%  loan of No-
t1,                                    1         1952:      vember 13, 1951 to Central Hidro-
into operation shortly; the second unit will be                     el6ctrica del Rio Lebrija, Limitada, for
ready by the end of 1954.  Most of the transmis-        F           power development.
Fiscal $25 million 25-year 43/4% loan of August
sion system  has been constructed, and the inter-        1953:      26, 1952 for construction of the Mag-
connection between the Los Cipreses and the                         dalena Valley Railroad and centrai
repair shops.
Abanico ne+wcrk which serves the Concepci6n             Fiscal $14.35 million 10-year 43/4% loan of Sep-
area is scheduled for completion by the end of           1954:      tember 10, 1953 for highway rehabil-
1954.  The construction of the 2,000 kilometers                     itation and maintenance.
Toz;al: $69.28 million, net of cancellations.
of distribution lines in rural areas is almost fin-
ished.  Work is now proceeding on the mechan-               The $14.35 million highway loan of Sep-
ical irrigation part of the project.  All orders have  tember 1953, like the loan of $16.5 million, will
benlaedfotequpmn  andtestdribe used to finance a part of the Government's pro-
been     stared   in two areas,                       gram  for rehabilitation, extension and mainte-
has been started in two areas.t
Work onteispaeofteluRv   nance of the national highway system.  By the
Work on the first phase of the Elqui River       end of March 1954, 880 miles of road had been
project, for which the Bank made a loan of $1.3       reconstructed and 120 miles of new  roads com-
million in Octcber 1951, was completed during         pleted; 360 miles of paving was finished on re-
the year.  Funds were used to buy drilling and        constructed and new roads.  The contractors were
other equipment to  measure the underground           carrying out maintenance on 1,700 miles of high-
wvater rescurces of the Elqui River Valley in north   ways; and the Bank was assisting the Ministry of
central Chile. The data collected from  this phase    Public Works in the staffing and organization of
of the project have been submitted to the United      a special Maintenance Division.
States Bureau of Reclamation for analysis and               Except for continuing maintenance, it is now
the final report fronm the Bureau is expected to be   expected that the program  will be completed in
ready in August 1954.  If the report were to    the first part of 1956.  Some effects are already
show that there is enough water in this area, the     apparent.  Travel time for motor vehicles on the
[31 )



Armenia-Ibagu6 stretch of the Buenaventura-Bo-    with the National Planning Office, established in
gota highway, for instance, has been cut in half    1952 as a result of work begun when the Bank's
by widening and better grading of the road; and    General Survey Mission visited Colombia in 1949.
protracted closings of the highway due to land-    The leave of absence of the Bank staff member
slides have been avoided since construction be-    who had served as Planning Adviser to the Office
gan. Costs of freight hauled over the Buenaven-    for the past year has been extended to May 1955.
tura-Bogotd road have been reduced by almost half    The work of the highway engineering consultant
since 1950. On another stretch of highway link-    who had been stationed in Colombia since 1951
ing the important provincial trading centers of    was completed in January 1954.
Pereira and Cartago, the travel time has been cut
by 60 % and traffic volume has nearly doubled.  Costa Rica
The construction of a railroad in the Mag-     At the request of the Government, a Bank
dalena Valley, being financed by $20 million of    economist went to Costa Rica in May 1954 to
the $25 million loan of August 1952, is proceed-    bring up to date the Bank's information on the
ing satisfactorily. Work began in January 1953    economy; and the Bank's Director of Marketing
and although somewhat behind the original    paid a short visit to make recommendations for the
schedule, by April 1954 satisfactory progress had    improvement of the domestic bond market.
been reported on the construction of some 60
miles of grading. No use has been made as yet of    Cuba
the $5 million of the loan which is set aside for  Two members of the staff visited Cuba in
the improvement of railway workshops.          June for discussions with Government officials and
Of the three hydroelectric projects financed    leading members of the banking and business com-
with the help of Bank loans, two are in operation,    munity about possible fields for collaboration be-
and construction of the third should be completed    tween Cuba and the Bank.
by the end of 1954. The Caldas project has been
supplying power to the city of Manizales since    Ecuador
1951, and the expansion of the distribution sys-  Fiscal $8.5 million 10-year 45g8% loan of Feb-
tem should be completed during 1954. The Le-     1954:    ruary 10, 1954 to Comite Ejecutivo
de Vialidad de la Provincia del Guayas
brija plant began operations in March 1954 and             for highway construction.
has quadrupled the supply of electricity in Buca-  Total: $8.5 million.
ramanga. The Anchicaya project is expected to       The loan will meet the foreign exchange
start supplying power to Cali and the surrounding    costs of a four-year highway construction program
area by the end of 1954.                      to be carried out by the Highway Committee of
Although the $5 million loan of August   the Province of Guayas. The Province covers a
1949 for the purchase of agricultural machinery   large part of Ecuador's coastal plain, where agri-
has been fully disbursed and about half repaid,    cultural development has been severely hampered
the Caja de Cr6dito Agrario has been able to con-    by lack of roads and high transportation costs.
tinue imports under the loan through a revolving    Existing roads are for the most part unpaved and
fund. At the end of the year under review, near-   become impassable in the rainy season. The pro-
ly $15 million worth of machinery had been    gram includes the conversion to all-weather high-
purchased out of the fund. A Bank mission left    ways of eight of the existing roads radiating from
for Colombia at the end of June to discuss a sec-    Guayaquil, the country's chief port; the construc-
ond loan for agricultural machinery.           tion of a central road maintenance shop; and the
The Bank has continued close collaboration    acquisition of ferries which will operate between
{321



Guayaquil and Duran, the terminus of the railroad  pected to go into operation in September.  They
from Quito, the capital.                           will double electric generating capacity in El Sal-
Most of Ecuador's cotton, rice and sugar, as    vador.  Nevertheless the growth in the demand
well as the bulk of the chief export crops, bananas,    for power, stimulated by the Lempa River project,
cacao and coffee, are produced in the coastal re-    is such that more capacity will soon be needed.  A
gion.  This area comprises about 17 million acres    third 15,000-kilowatt unit, financed entirely from
of land, of which only 1.25 million acres are cul-   local sources, has already been ordered and the
tivated.  The new highways can be expected to    possibility of further hydroelectric development of
open new lands to cultivation and lead to more    the Lempa River is under active study.
effective use of lands now under cultivation.           Most of the electricity from the new plant is
Since the loan was granted there have been    being distributed in San Salvador, the capital, and
changes in the composition of the Highway Com-    in San Miguel, a key industrial center.  It is per-
mittee which have postponed the opening of the     mitting the establishment of new  factories and
loan for disbursements to the borrower.            providing a basis for expanding capacity in exist-
ing plants making cement, shoes, flour, metal
In May  1954  the Government created an    furniture, asbestos sheet, fertilizer, textiles, leather
goods, construction materials, soap, pottery and
along lines suggested by the Bank.  At the re-    matches.  Agriculture will be benefited by the
quest of the Government the Bank is assisting in    establishment of power-operated pumping stations
organizing the work of the Board and in recruit-    for irrigation.
ing its technical staff.  The Bank has also agreed      In October-November 1953 a mission visited
to station a representative in Ecuador to assist the
Board~ infruaigaln-ag.eeomn                     El Salvador to study a proposed coastal highway
Board in formulating a long-range development
program.  It is expected that he will assume his    project.  The Bank advised the Government in
duties in August.  At the request of the Govern-    February 1954 that it would be ready to negotiate
ment, the Bank isrecruitinganexperttoaa loan to cover the foreign exchange costs of this
ment, the Bank iS recruiting an expert to advise    poetwe  otetmtsaecmltd
on the reorganization of the railroads with the
object of improving efficiency of operation.            The Bank's Director of Marketing visited El
Salvador in May 1954 to study the possibilities of
In October 1953 the Ecuadorian Congress    dvlpn   nitra   aia   akt
ratified a debt settlement which had been nego-
tiated between the Ecuadorian Government and       Haiti
the Council of Foreign Bondholders of London in
May 1953.                                             In April 1954 a mission visited Haiti to study
its economy and examine its investment program.
El Salvador                                        Honduras
Fiscal $12,545,000 25-year 414% loan of Decem-
1950:     ber 14, 1949 to Comisi6n Ejecutiva          The Government has asked the Bank for
Hidroel6ctrica del Rio Lempa for      assistance in formulating a long-term development
power development,                    program.  Two members of the staff visited Hon-
To ta: $12,545,000.                              duras in June 1954 to discuss this request.
The hydroelectric plant on the Lempa River,
partly financed by this loan, was inaugurated by   Mexico
the President of the Republic in June 1954.  The     Fiscal $24.1 million 25-year 42%  loan of Jan-
first of the two 15,000-kilowatt Bank-financed       1949:      uary 6, 1949 to Comisi6n Federal de
Electricidad and Nacional Financiera
units Is already in operation and the second is ex-             for power development
1331



$10 million 1-year 427% loan of January          The difficulties experienced by Mexlight in
6, 1949 to Comisi6n Federal de Elec-    financing the peso costs of its construction pro-
tricidad and Nacional Financiera for
power development. (Refunded)            gram, referred to in the Eighth Annual Report,
Fiscal $26 million 25-year 41/2  loan of April 28,  were alleviated in  September 1953  when the
1950:      1950 to Mexican Light and Power
Companv, Limited, for power devel-       Government approved the Company's application
opment. Fully  disbursed  in  June       for an increase in power rates and the Company
1954.                                   obtained a substantial long-term  credit from  Na-
Fiscal $10 million (maturitv dates 1952-1957)
1951:      31/2.% line of credit of October 18,     cional Financiera.  The devaluation of the peso
1950 to a consortium of eight Mexi-     in April 1954, however, has made a further rate
can banks and Nacional Financiera
can b     a                             adjustment urgently necessary, and the Company
lcr financial assistance to small enter-
Frises. Expired on June 30, 1952 with   is now engaged in discussions with the Govern-
$532,000 of loans outstanding. Of this  ment toward this end.
amount $4,000 was canceled on July
1, 1953. The balance of 8528,000 has          In October 1953 the Mexican Government
been disbursed.                          undertook a comprehensive study of Mexico's fu-
FiscJl $29.7 million 25-year 41/2%  loan of Jan-    ture requirements for electric power, with special
1952:      uary 11. 1952 to Comisi6n Federal
de Electricidad and Nacional Financi-   reference to sources from  which they could be
eia for power development.              financed.  The Government accepted the Bank's
Totc,: $80,328.000, net of cancellations and re-    offer to cooperate in the execution of this study.
fundings.                                The Bank engaged a senior official of the British
By the end of 1954, work is expected to be       Electricity Authority, which granted him  a year's
complete on the construction programs being car-    leave of absence, to act as its resident representa-
ried out by the Federal Electricity Commission and    tive in Mexico to assist in this study.  In addition,
the Mexican Light and Power Company (Mex-    the Bank is making available the services of mem-
light) with the help of the loans made in 1949        bers of its staff from time to time as needed, and
and  1950.  The principal projects still under    is helping  to  obtain  suitable  consultants  for
construction-Mexlight's  45,000-kilowatt Patla    specialized parts of the study.
hydroelectric plant, and additions totaling 88,200          A Bank mission visited Mexico in May and
kilowatts to the Commission's Miguel Aleman           June 1954 to study a project for the rehabilita-
hydroelectric  development -  are  scheduled  to    tion of the Pacific Railroad.  The Railroad runs
come into operation in the course of the year.        from  Guadalajara to Nogales on the U.S.-Mexi-
The main project being financed by the           can border, and  serves Mexico's most rapidly
Bank's $29.7 million loan of 1952 is the Com-         growing agricultural area.
mission's 150,000-kilowatt Tingambato plant in        Nicaragua
the Miguel Aleman system  serving Mexico City.
Fiscal $3.5 million 10-year 418% loan of June 7,
Work has progressed more slowly than was ex-             1957:      1951 for highway construction.
pected, but completion  is now  scheduled for                   $1.2 million 7-year 4%  loan of June 7,
October 1955.  Other projects financed by this                      1951 to the Banco Nacional de Nica-
ragua  for  agricultural  machinery.
loan have made gcood progress.  The 30,000-kilo-                    Of this amount, $6,879 was cancelled
watt steam plant at Monterrey came into full op-                    on January 1, 1954, by which date the
balance of 51,193.121 had been dis-
eration in January 1954, and a 10,000-kilowatt                       bursed.
steam  lnt atVrcu  sa  hepitoope                        Fiscal $550,000 10-year 4~%  loan of October
plant at Veracruz is at the point of comple-     D1952:      29, 1951 for grain storage facilities.
tion.  The 52,000-kilowatt El Cobano hydroelec-                     Of this amount, $3,006 was canceled
tric station in Michoacan should be completed by                    on December 11, 1953, by which date
the balance of $546,994 had been dis-
the end of the year.                                                bursed.
[ 341



Fiscal $3.5 million 10-year 43/4% loan of Septem-  contained in the report of the Special Representa-
1954:     ber 4, 1953 for highway construction.
$450,000 10-year 43/4% loan of Septem-   tive presented in September 1952. In accordance
ber 4, 1953 for power development.   with those recommendations, a NTational Develop-
Total: $9,190,115, net of cancellations.        ment Institute was established irn January 1954 to
Progress under the $3.5 million highway    stimulate new agricultural and industrial enter-
loan ou 9 hprise by means of financial and technical assistance.
loan of June 1951 has been good. Of the eight
main highways being constructed with equipment    Panama
financed by the loan, one was completed, except
for asphalt surfacing, in April 1954; the 48-mile   Fiscal $1.2 million 7-year 45/Y87 loan of Septem-
1954:     ber 25, 1953 to Instituto de Fomento
link between Managua, the capital, and Le6n, the              Econ6mico for agricultural develop-
second largest city in Nicaragua, was scheduled               ment.
for completion in August 1954, and through traf-          $290,000 8-year 4l/8s / loan of Septemnbe,
25, 1953 to InstitLito de Fomento
fic had already begun to use the road early in the            Econ6mico for grain storage facilities.
year. Pending completion of the main highway        Total: $1.49 million.
program, work has been deferred on the roads to       The Government is now making intensive
be built with the assistance of the Bank's $3.5   en               gti
-  efforts to encourage agricultural production in
million loan of September 1953.  This second    Panama; and these loans will pay for imports
phase of the road program, to be completed over    which will begin to meet the most urgent require-
a 5-year period, includes construction of 25 miles    ments of the farming community for better equip-
of main and 430 miles of secondary roads.         ment and impoe sorgfcities.Bt loans
The~~~~~~~~~ elcti geeaigui*orteMnga   nent and improved storage facilities. Both loans
The electric generating unit for the Managua    were made to the Instituto de Fomento Econ6mico
electric plant, financed by the $450,000 loan of    (IFE), created in January 1953 to make loans for
September 1953, is being installed and should go    private enterprises and to plan public develop-
into operation later in 1954.
into operationelater in 1954.overnment,the   mental investment, especially in agriculture.
At the request of the Government, the Bank        Part of the $1.2 million loan is being used
to buy tractors and other equipment for use in
Nacional import additional farm machinery with    agricultural machinery pools. IFE will operate the
a revolving fund arranged for when the $1.2    pools and will perform services for farmers on a
million agricultural machinery loan was made    contract basis. The pools have been established at
in June 1951. By June 30, 1954, equipment    four key points and a substantial amount of the
worth about $250,000 had been imported under    machinery has been delivered.  It will be used
this arrangement.                                for land clearance as well as for cultivation and
In February 1954 the Government requested    harvesting.  The loan is also financing the import
the Bank to consider financing the foreign ex-    of machinery and equipment to be sold to farmers
change costs, estimated at about $7 million, of    who obtain credits from IFE for their purchase.
constructing a new power plant to serve Managua       The $290,000 loan will be used to import
and the surrounding area.  A Bank engineer vis-    materials needed by IFE to build a 4,000-ton
ited Nicaragua in May-June 1954 to examine the    capacity plant at Panama City for drying and stor-
project.                                         ing corn and beans.  By reducing losses from
The Bank continues to maintain a Special    spoilage, the new plant should lessen seasonal
Representative in Managua to advise and assist   fluctuations in the prices received for crops and
the National Economic Council in coordinating    should raise the income of producers, thereby en-
the development program.  The Government has    couraging local agricultural production. It should
continued to implement the recommendations    also improve Panama's trade position by reducing
r35 



imports of grain and beans that now amount to           The loan of $1.7 million made in April
about $2 million a year.                           1954, like the earlier loan of $1.3 million, is being
At the request of the Government, the Bank    used to import equipment for the agricultural
since October 1953 has maintained a Special Rep-    machinery pools of Servicio Cooperativo Inter-
resentative in Panama to advise on economic and    americano de Producci6n de Alimentos (SCIPA),
financial policies and to assist in drawing up a    an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture.
development program.                                    The National City Bank of New  York is
participating in the $1.7 million loan, without
Paraguay                                           the Bank's guarantee, to the extent of $250,000
Fiscal $5 million 9-year 43/E% loan of December  representing $50,000 of each of the first five
1952:     7, 1951 for agricultural machinery and  maturities, falling due semi-annually from  July
supplies and road-building equipment.  15, 1956 through July 15, 1958.
Total: $5 million.                                    The equipment in SCIPA's machinery pools
All the goods purchased out of the $1.9    is used for plowing and harvesting, for land recla-
million of the loan made available for disburse-    mation and for opening new areas to cultivation.
ment in September 1952 have now  arrived in        The first loan was fully disbursed in February 1954
Paraguay.  They consisted mainly of agricultural    and all the equipment purchased with it is being
implements and fence wire for small farms, and     operated by SCIPA.  During the year 1953, of
road-building equipment.  The farm  equipment    an estimated 250,000 hours of work by tractors
has been distributed and is in use throughout the    from the pools, three-quarters were accounted for
country.  The road project is going forward on     by Bank-financed tractors.  In all 27,000 acres
schedule and the major part should be completed    of land were plowed, 4,000 harrowed and 10,000
by the end of 1954.                                planted and cultivated.
Late in 1953 a Bank mission visited Para-          The greater part of the second agricultural
guay to examine the general economic sitLation,    machinery loan is being spent for the purchase
to observe the progress of the projects and to dis-    of heavy equipment to increase SCIPA's land
cuss with the Paraguayan authorities plans for the    clearing and land preparation  activities.  The
use of the remaining $3.1 million of the loan,    balance is being spent on cultivation and trans-
Study is now being given to revisions of the orig-    portation equipment, spare parts and shop tools.
inal project.                                           Good progress has been made during the
The Bank's Special Representative, who had    year under the $2.5 million loan to improve the
been stationed in Paraguay at the end of 1952 to   Port of Callao.  All the equipment for handling
assist in matters related to the loan, completed   general cargo has been delivered and is operating
his initial assignment in August 1953.  He re-    satisfactorily.  Construction of the foundation of
turned  to Paraguay in an advisory capacity dur-    the grain elevator has been completed and a con-
ing March-June 1954.                               tract is about to be concluded for the building of
Peru                                               the superstructure.  The equipment for unloading
grain has now arrived and is expected to be put
Fiscal: $2.5 million 15-year 41/2  loan of Jan-  into operation within two months.
1952:     uary 23, 1952 for port improvements.
Fiscal $1.3 million 7-year 41/i% loan of July 8,      In January 1954 a mission visited Peru to
1953:     1952 for agricultural machinery. Fully  review the economic situation and to discuss the
disbursed by February 1954.           technical aspects of projects for which Bank financ-
Fiscal $1.7 million 7-year 44% loan of April
1954:     12, 1954 for agricultural machinery.   ing had been sought.  Subsequently the Bank
Total: $5.5 million.                             notified the Government that it was ready to open
1361



negotiations for a loan for the Quiroz-Piura irri-   pected to come into operation before January
gation project. The Government informed the    1955, and the entire transmission system is sched-
Bank that it was re-examining its investment pro-    uled for completion by mid-1955. Expansion of
gram and for the time being was postponing exe-    distribution networks both in Montevideo and in
cution of the project. The Bank has also in-   the interior is progressing well.
formed the Compania Nacional de Cemento Port-      Progress on the telephone program has been
land del Norte that it is prepared to start negotia-   somewhat slower than was expected. However,
tions for a loan for the construction of a cement   seven new telephone exchanges have been put in-
plant in northern Peru as soon as the company has   to operation in Montevideo and two others are
adequately increased its equity capital.       being expanded; three new exchanges are being
A mission went to Peru in May 1954 to ex-    built in towns in the interior. Twenty-eight
amine a project for agricultural development   thousand new  telephones have been installed.
which would be carried out by the Banco de Fo-    The main work still to be done under the program
mento Agropecuario.                           is the installation of underground telephone cables
The Government has now negotiated settle-   in Montevideo and the construction and rehabili-
ments for resuming service on all government or    tation of overhead telephone lines throughout the
government-guaranteed debt which had been in    country.
default. Following the settlement of Peru's dol-    During the year a special committee appoint-
lar debt early in 1953, the Government, in De-   ed by the Government drew up a program to in-
cember 1953, reached an agreement with the    crease livestock production, based on the recom-
Council of Foreign Bondholders of London on    mendations of the Bank-FAO mission of 1951.
the terms of settlement to be offered to holders of    The committee was assisted by a Bank consultant
defaulted sterling bonds. These terms were ap-    on animal husbandry who was in Uruguay from
proved by the Peruvian Congress in February    November 1953 to May 1954. The program is
1954.                                          designed to demonstrate, on selected owner-oper-
ated farms, better techniques of livestock produc-
Uruguay                                        tion, through improved pasture management, im-
Fiscal $33 million 24-year 41/4%o loan of August  provement of pasture lands, provision of addition-
1951:     25, 1950 to Administraci6n General  al water supplies, control of cattle diseases and
de las Usinas EIRtricas y los Te-
lefonos del Estado (UTE) for power  forage conservation. An independent commis-
and telephone development program.  sion will be established to administer the program.
Total: $33 million.                          The Bank has informed the Government that it
Construction has been accelerated during the    is prepared to negotiate a loan for the program
past year on the project for the expansion of elec-    when certain organizational and administrative
tric power and telephone facilities of Usinas Elec-   steps have been taken.
tricas y los Telefonos del Estado (UTE). All of     Discussions with Uruguayan authorities are
the 39 diesel power units, with a combined capac-    well advanced on the proposed financing of an-
ity of over 17,000 kilowatts, have been installed    other 50,000-kilowatt thermal power unit in
and are operating in 31 communities in the inte-    Montevideo. Discussions also are continuing on
rior. The civil works have been nearly com-    the construction of a 103,000-kilowatt hydroelec-
pleted on the 50,000-kilowatt thermal generating    tric power plant on the Rio Negro in central Uru-
plant at Montevideo; all the equipment has been    guay. Consideration of a loan for railway de-
delivered and is to be installed by December 1954.    velopment is in abeyance pending further study
About 65 miles of the new I10,000-volt transmis-    of means of improving the financial position of
sion lines are in operation; other sections are ex-   the railways.
{371



Chapter Ill-Financial Activities And Resources
EARNINGS, RESERVES AND REPAYMENTS
The Bank's net income in 1953-54 amount-   income was $41 million, income from investments
ed to $20 million, compared with $18 million    $9 million and miscellaneous income $0.2 mil-
during the previous fiscal year. As usual, the    lion. Gross expenses increased from  $24 mil-
net income was carried to a supplemental reserve    lion in 1952-53 to $30 million in the past year.
against losses on loans and guarantees, and in-    This risc was due mainly to increases in payments
creased that reserve to $97 million.            of interest and other costs on the increased amounts
Loan commissions, representing a charge of    of the Bank's borrowings.
1 % on outstanding balances of all loans, totaled   Borrowers met all repayments of principal
$12 million for the year. This sum was cred-    due during the year to the Bank and to holders of
ited, as required by the Articles of Agreement, to    borrowers' obligations sold by it; the total repaid
the Special Reserve for meeting the Bank's obli-    was $20 million.  In addition, prepayments of
gations. The Special Reserve was thus increased    about $1 million were made on loans made in
to $49 million.                                 Belgium, Finland and Mexico.
Total reserves of the Bank at the end of the    A total of $57 million has been repaid by
year were $146 million.                         borrowers. Of this sum, $17 million has been
The year's gross income, excluding loan com-    paid to the Bank and $40 million has been paid
missions, was $50 million.  Of this amount loan    on loans sold from portfolio.
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
When the Bank began operations in 1946, its   increased by $310 million.  Of this amount $189
chief financial resources for some time to come    million, or 61%  came from other than United
were expected to be dollars drawn from the Unit-    States sources. Some of this consisted of pay-
ed States capital subscription and from the United    ments of interest and other loan charges.  As
States capital market.                          mentioned in succeeding sections of this Chapter,
As economic conditions improved in other    more of it came from releases of the 18 %  cap-
member countries which had exported capital be-   ital subscriptions and from  sales of bonds and
fore World War II, these countries too were ex-    portfolio securities. Since the Bank's operations
pected to add to the resources of the Bank, by re-    began, the proportion of its total lendable resources
leasing their paid-in capital subscriptions for lend-    drawn from outside the United States has been
ing, by allowing the Bank to borrow in their mar-   increasing; by the end of the fiscal year it had risen
kets and by permitting investors to buy securities    to 38%.
from the Bank's loan portfolio.                      The following table shows funds available
In the past year there has been a consider-   for lending and indicates those obtained from
able acceleration in the growth of funds available    United States sources, and those obtained from
from outside the United States. Lendable funds    other sources.
(381



FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
(Expressed in United States dollars)
Source of Furnds
Obtained Within Obtained Outside
Total          United States    United States
2%, portion of subscription of all members         $ 179,475,000       $  63,500,000     $115,975,000
18fc portion of subscription made available by:
Canada                                          53,356,000                           53,356,000
South Africa                                     4,419,000                            4,419,000
United States                                  571,500,000         571,500,000
Western European members (listed below)         91,900,000                           91,900,000
Total available capital subscriptions              $ 900,650,000       $ 635,000,000     $265,650,000
Funds available from operations                        98,200,000             -            98,200,000a
Funds available from sale of bonds                    776,678,000       501:878,000b      274,800,000b
Funds available from principal repayments and loans
sold or agreed to be sold                      118,833,000         47,466,000b       71,367,000b
Gross total available funds                        $1,894,361,000      $1,184,344,000    $710,017,000
a The net amount of funds available from operations has been shown as obtained outside the United States because
it consists primarily of interest payments received from borrowers. Income (derived largely from investments)
obtained in the United States has been more than offset by expenditures there, and the difference has been cov-
ered out of gross income from all sources.
b Estimated
Funds fron Capital Siubscription                      This was an increase of $29 million over the
The United States and Canada are the only    total available at the end of the previous fiscal
member countries of the Bank which have so far    year.  Funds conditionally available increased by
felt able to make all, or nearly all, of the capital  $81 million to a total of $389 million.  This left
they have paid in to the Bank available for lending   $79 million in Western European currencies still
on a freely convertible basis.  Varying amounts    unreleased, as compared with $187 million at
from the subscriptions of other member countries      June 30, 1953.
have also been made available, but generally sub-          Releases of 18%  capital subscriptions total-
ject to consultation with the releasing member or    ing $33 million have also been made by 18 other
to other limitations.                                 member countries, namely: Colombia, Costa Rica,
Additional funds for lending became avail-       Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, Greece, Guatemala,
able to the Bank during the year from the 18%         Honduras, Iceland, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Pak-
capital subscriptions of Western European mem-        istan, Paraguay, Philippines, Syria, Thailand and
bers.  The total amount of Western European           Yugoslavia.  So far, these currencies have not
member currencies used by the Bank, or allocated      been used for loans.
to existing loans, grew to the equivalent of $92           The trend of operations in the past year
million, as follows:
makes clear that the Bank and its borrowers will
Austria                       $  250,000         have increasing opportunities to use the currencies
Belgium                         5,700,000
Denmark                         1,500,000        of its Western European members.  The Bank
France                         34.500,000        will therefore continue to press for more liberal
Germany                         3,100,000
Italy                           4,250,000        releases of 18%o capital.  The Bank hopes that
Luxembourg                       100,000          .   .  b                                   ..
Netheriands                     2,200,000        It will be found possible to relax the conditions
Norwa7                           500,000          which inhibit the use of many of these releases
Sweden                          3,900,000
tJnited IKirod3m 35,900,000                      and reduce their value to the Bank.
393



Funds from Bond Issues                            The remaining $5 million was purchased by the
Markedly favorable conditions prevailed in    Netherlands Trading Society, as underwriter, and
the securities markets of the United States and    was distributed to investors in the Netherlands by
most other major capital centers during the fiscal    a syndicate of fourteen banks and investment firms
year.  In the United States, for instance, the price    headed by the Society.
level of Treasury and other high grade bonds rose      More than $40 million of this issue was pur-
sharply above the levels of the previous 12 months.    chased by investors outside the United States.
These conditions enabled the Bank to sell more    Initial distribution abroad was as follows: $20
bond issues in more capital markets than in any    million to central banks and special funds in 11
earlier year, and resulted in the further expansion    countries; $10 million to the Swiss Bank Corpora.
of the market for the outstanding obligations of    tion, Basle, and the Credit Suisse, Zurich, for sale
the Bank.  A notable result of the new issues    in Switzerland; $3.5 million to a London banking
was the significant increase in the sale of both    group; $1 million each to banks in Sweden and
dollar and non-dollar bonds outside the United    Belgium; and $5 million to the Netherlands Trad-
States.                                          ing Society as underwriter in the Netherlands.
Five new bond issues were offered. They           The balance of the 3 % three-year bonds was
totaled the equivalent of $221 million: there    bought widely in the United States. Many of the
were two United States dollar issues amounting to
ZD      bonds were purchased by commercial banks, which
$175 million; two Swiss franc issues amounting    had bought only small quantities of the Bank's
to SwfrlOO  million; and one Canadian dollar    long-term  issues but whose investment require-
issue amounting to Can$25  million. In addi-    ments were met by the relatively short term to
tion an issue of Swfr5 0 million which had been    maturity of this offering. Distribution of the
offered in June 1953 was delivered and paid for    three-year 3's undoubtedly was the broadest yet
in July 1953.                                     achieved by the Bank for any of its issues.
Purchasers outside the United States bought
about $96 million, or 44%  of all new issues of-   ing A seon  UnitedfSttesndolar issue cons
fered, and this amount included more than $50         of off                 f n   312%wbond
million of the Bank's dollar bonds.  For the first    was of   in January 1954.tAn udrwritin
group of 167 banks and investment firms, again
time, banking firms outside the United States par-    headed by The First Boston Corporation and Mor-
ticipated as underwriters of Bank issues denom-
gan Stanley & Co., offered $98 million of the
mnated in United States dollars.                  bonds in the United States. Credit Suisse of Zu-
Total outstanding issues of the Bank on June    rich underwrote $2 million of the issue for distri-
30, 1954, amounted to the equivalent of $777      bution in Switzerland.  Widespread subscriptions
million: $665 million in United States dollars and    were received from life insurance companies, sav-
$112 million in other currencies.                ings banks and pension and trust funds in the
United States dollar issues: An issue of $75  United States, many of them  being institutions
million of 3 %  three-year United States dollar    that previously had not bought Bank bonds. In
bonds was publicly offered in September 1953.    addition to the amount distributed by Credit Suisse,
A syndicate of 147 banks and investment firms in    investors abroad purchased more than $8 million
the United States underwrote $70 million of the    of the issue.
issue, under the joint management of Morgan            Stwiss franc issues: Two Swiss franc issues of
Stanley & Co. and The First Boston Corporation.    the Bank were offered in Switzerland in Novem-
{ 401



berl953andMarchl954.  Eachamountedto50              Sales from the Bank's loan portfolio, made
million Swiss francs and carried a coupon of    without guarantee, also rose during the year to $14
31/2 to. The first issue is a 15-year maturity and    million, a record figure. Additional sales of $8
the second matures in 18 years. Public offering    million were made with the unconditional guar-
of the issues was made at par by an underwriting    antee of the Bank. Total participations and port-
syndicate headed by the Swiss Bank Corporation    folio sales in the year amounted to about $34
of Basle, the Credit Suisse and the Union Bank of    million, compared with $15 million in the pre-
Switzerland, of Zurich. The issues were broadly    vious fiscal year.
distributed among institutional and individual in-  Participations by investors in the Bank's
vestors in Switzerland and were heavily oversub-    loans and purchases from the portfolio from the
scribed.                                        start of operations in 1946 to June 30, 1954 ag-
These were the fourth and fifth Swiss franc    gregated the equivalent of $105 million, of which
issues of the Bank publicly offered in Switzerland.    $47 million were without and $58 million with
At the end of the fiscal year total outstanding Swiss   the Bank's guarantee. At the end of the fiscal
franc bonds of the Bank amounted to Swfr263    year, outstanding obligations carrying the Bank's
million, equivalent to approximately $61 million.    guarantee amounted to $27 million. Repayments
Canadian dollar issue: The fifth issue of the    on guaranteed obligations had reached $31 mil-
Bank in the fiscal year was floated on the Canadian    lion and on obligations without guarantee had
market in June 1954. It consisted of Can$25    reached $9 million.
million of 3 c<O % fifteen-year bonds. Twenty-
seven Canadian banks and investment firms,
headed by A. E. Ames & Co. Limited, Wood,           During the year the Bank retired Swfr1O
Gundy & Company Limited, and Dominion Se-    million of its Swiss franc serial bonds of 1950, and
curities Corpn. Limited, underwrote the issue and    $10 million of its United States dollar serial bonds
offered it to the public at 991/4. Buyers of the    of 1950.
bonds included insurance companies, banks, trust    The Bank had the equivalent of $803 mil-
companies and individuals. This was the second    lion of direct and indirect obligations outstanding
offering of the Bank's bonds in Canada, the first    on June 30, 1954. Investors in the United States
having been made in February 1952 when Can.    were estimated to hold about 64%  of these obli-
$15 million of 4%o ten-year bonds were publicly    gations as compared with more than 70% of the
offered at par.                                total outstanding at the end of the previous fiscal
year. The change reflects the sharp increase in
Participations, and Sales from Portfolio        purchases of Bank obligations abroad.  It does
Participations by private investors in loans    not reflect a decline in holdings in the United
made by the Bank increased in the year. These    States, which actually increased by about $100
transactions in varying amounts took place in con-    million.
nection with loans made in Brazil, Japan, Nor-      At June 30, 1954, it was estimated that in-
way, Pakistan, Peru and French West Africa, as    vestors in the United States held about $517 mil-
is noted in the discussion, contained in Chapter II,   lion of Bank obligations, or about 64%  of the
of Bank operations in these countries. These   total outstanding.  This was divided as follows:
participations amounted to $12 million. All of   insurance companies, 20%; savings banks, 20%o;
them were undertaken without the guarantee of    pension and trust funds, 20%; commercial banks
the Bank.                                       and other investors, 4%,o. The remaining $286
141J



million, representing 36%o of outstanding obliga-    States.  Included in this figure was $178 million
tions, were held by investors outside the United     denominated in United States dollars.
DISBURSEMENTS
The sum disbursed during the year was $302      rose during the year.  These trends reflected both
million, compared with $227 million during the       the competitive position of non-U.S. goods and
previous  year.  Total  disbursements  through       services and the greater availability to the Bank
June 30, 1954 were $1,406 million. Of this    of currencies other than U.S. dollars.
amount $1,235 million was repayable in U.S.               In each of the two preceding years, bor-
dollars.  The balance, equivalent to $171 mil-    rowers had spent about 35%c of the proceeds of
lion, was repayable in Austrian schillings, Belgian  Bank loans outside the United States; in the year
francs, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Danish     ending June 30, 1954, the proportion was 41%.
kroner, French francs, German marks, Italian lire,    In absolute terms, expenditures rose both in the
Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, South        United States and Europe; they amounted to $177
African pounds, Swedish kronor and Swiss francs.    million and $115 million, respectively, compared
Disbursements during the year which are         with $144 million and $68 million in the pre-
repayable in currencies other than United States    vious year.
dollars were nearly equal to those of all previous        The geographical distribution of loan ex-
fiscal years combined.  They amounted to $82         penditures is shown in the table below.  Cumu-
million, or 27 %  of all disbursements during the    lative totals, expressed in millions of U.S. dol-
year.  The proportion of disbursements which    lars, are given as they stood at the end of each of
borrowers spent outside the United States likewise    the past two fiscal years:
Total to                   Total to
Area of Expenditure                     June 30, 1953    %         June 30, 1954     %
United States ........$ 770.3                               69.8        $ 947.7          67.4
Europe ..................    .....................  193.2   17.5           308.3        21.9
Canada        .......................................  71.4  6.5            78.6         5.6
Latin America .................. .....................   61.0  5.5          62.2         4.4
Africa ...................    ....................    4.0    0.4             5.2         0.4
Middle East ............................ ...........    2.2  0.2             2.3          0.2
Asia ................. ..     ....................    1.2    0.1             1.2         0.1
$1,103.3     100.0          $1,405.5      100.0
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND REPORTS
Appendices A through H contain a balance        statement of loans up to the end of the fiscal year,
sheet showing the financial position of the Bank as    the opinion of the independent auditor, and other
of June 30, 1954, and a comparative statement of    schedules giving details of the assets and the capi-
income and expenses for the fiscal years ended       tal structure of the Bank are also included.
June 30, 1953 and June 30, 1954. A complete
[42 1



Chapter IV-Management And Organization
Organization and Personnel                     training to acquaint them with the work and poli-
The partial reorganization of departmental    cies of the Bank, and officials from Thailand and
Pakistan have received training in public finance.
duties carried out in September 1952 has contrib-
uted to improved liaisonwith mbercouThe training of five other officials which was be-
uted to improved liaison with member countriesg
gun in 1952-53 was completed during the year.
and borrowers, and has had a generally beneficial
effect on Bank cperating methods. There have        A total of 19 trainees from  13 member
been no important changes in organization or    countries have participated in the various train-
personnel.                                     ing activities of the Bank during the past year.
During the fiscal year there have been 78    Staf Retirement Plan
appointments to the permanent staff of the Bank
and 57 terminations.  On June 30, 1954 there        The plan is now in its seventh year of opera-
were 447 permanent staff members from  32    tion. At the end of December 1953, the total
countries.                                      assets of the plan were $2,624,500, an increase of
approximately $446,000 over the previous year.
Training Programs                               The investment portfolio contained securities with
a book value of $2,534,200 and a market value of
The sixth year of the Bank's General Train-    a2,701,700.
ing Program began on January 1, 1954 with the
enrollment of trainees from Brazil, Burma, Colom-    Administrative Budget
bia, Germany, India, Japan, Jordan and Turkey.      The Administrative Budget of the Bank for
This program is designed to give junior officials
from  the Bank's member countries experience    this   year ending  June 30, 1955 appears in
with general problems of economic development,    tireport  President and approved by the Ex-
and to famliarize them with the Bank's opera   prdb  h   rsdn  n   prvdb  h   x
rions.  Natiionals ofem 40o  the Bank's m bera   ecutive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of
tions. Nationals of 40 of the Bank's member    thByLw.Iteabncofewdvlp
countries hav  ate inti.ri         ic      the By-Laws. In the absence of new develop-
countrieshaveparticipated inthistrainments, no report is being submitted to the Board
its inception. Selections are now being made    of Governors on the Advisory Council, and no
from candidates for the seventh annual course.  provision is made for the council in the budget.
In addition, four officials, from Germany,    A special report on the budget is being presented
Yugoslavia and Ethiopia, have received special   to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meeting.
[43 }



Chapter V-Miscellaneous
Relations with Other International             Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
Organizations                                  nominated agricultural experts for those missions
The Bank continued to maintain close rela-    and for the mission to Malaya and Singapore.
tions with the International Monetary Fund, the    Ittil Finance Corporation
United Nations and other international organiza-
tions. As in the past, representatives of the Bank  In June 1954 the President of the Bank
attended meetings of the United Nations General   transmitted to the Secretary General of the United
Assembly and Economic and Social Council. The    Nations a "Second Report on the Status of the
President participated in the Council's annual dis-    Proposal for an International Finance Corpo-
cussion of the Bank's activities at its Seventeenth    ration". This report supplemented two previous
Session in New York in April 1954. He also at-   reports, presented in April 1952 and May 1953.
tended meetings of the United Nations Admin-    The proposal under review contemplates the es-
istrative Committee on Coordination, and staff   tablishment of a corporation affiliated with the
members represented the Bank at meetings of its    Bank and authorized to make loans to private en-
subsidiary committees.                         terprise without government guarantee, and to
The Bank remained in contact with the    make equity investment in participation with pri-
United Nations regional economic commissions,    vate interests. The report of June 1954 was pre-
the Organization of American States, and other    pared at the request of the General Assembly and
international bodies, and staff members attended    of the Economic and Social Council; both bodies
a number of meetings of these bodies when sub-    had asked the Bank to continue to study the pro-
jects of interest to the Bank were discussed. The    posal, to consult with member governments on it,
Bank was represented at several meetings of the    and to present a further progress report to the
United Nations Technical Assistance Board and    Council.
of the Technical Assistance Committee, which re-    On the basis of consultations with members
views the Board's activities on behalf of the Eco-    o
of the Bank which are potential capital-exporting
nomic and Social Council. Bank representatives    countries, the report points out that the situation
also participated in the Fourth Meeting of Tech-                  l
nican of th Ceta Bak,oh Ameia Con-    as it existed a year earlier has remained unchanged,
niciensof t held intWasngton in  Ama194as in   in that the countries on which the International
tinent held in Washington in May 1954. As in   FiacCoprtnwulnesaiyhveo
previous years, information was exchanged with    Finance Corporation would necessarily have to
the specialized agencies concerned with technical    depend for the greater part of its funds are not
assistance, and Bank personnel both at head-    at the present time prepared to commit themselves
quarters and in the field collaborated as the oc-   to subscribe capital. Further consultations with
casion arose with the technical assistance experts   the less-developed countries did not appear nec-
of various agencies.                            essary, because representatives of over 30 of them
The International Monetary Fund furnished    had officially announced their support of the pro-
staff members to serve on Bank general survey    posal and representatives of several other under-
missions to Nigeria and Syria, and the Food and    developed countries had supported it informally.
[44]



The report stated that the Bank's further    of $4.5 million, was approved by the Board of
studies had not altered the conclusion expressed    Governors in January 1954. Israel has until
in April 1952 concerning the contribution that    July 12, 1954 to accept membership.
such an institution might prove able to make to    As a result of action taken at the Eighth
the stimulation of private international invest-    Annual Meeting, Czechoslovakia was suspended
ment. The report also included a brief discus-   from membership on January 1, 1954.
sion, supplementing the earlier reports, on the
availability of private capital for the proposed    Appendices
corporation, and the amount of capital required at  In addition to appendices A through H giv-
the outset; the desirability of empowering the    ing the financial statements and reports, the fol-
corporation to make equity as well as loan invest-   lowing pages contain:
ments; and questions of membership, capital sub-   Appendix I-Administrative Budget for the
scription and method of affiliation with the Bank.     fiscal year ending June 30, 1955.
Appendix J-Voting Power and Subscrip-
Membership and Subscriptions                           tions of Member Countries as of June
30, 1954.
The Bank's members now number 56, and          Appendix K-Governors and Alternates as
its subscribed capital totals $9,148,500,000.          of June 30, 1954.
Haiti, with a subscription of $2 million, became   Appendix L-Executive Directors and Al-
a member of the Bank on September 8, 1953;             ternates and their Voting Power as of
Indonesia, with a subscription of $110 million,        June 30, 1954.
became a member on April 15, 1954. Applica-        Appendix M-Principal Officers of the
tion for membership by Israel, with a subscription     Bank as of June 30, 1954.
{45}






APPENDICES
Appendix                                                                            Page
A-BALANCE SHEET ....................             ...............................    48
B-COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR
THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1953 AND JUNE
30, 1954 ....                      .                                     50
C-STATEMENT OF CURRENCIES HELD BY THE BANK ..............    51
D-STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TO CAPITAL STOCK AND
VOTING  POWER  .............................     ......................    52
E- FUNDED DEBT OF THE BANK ................................................    5 3
F-STATEMENT  OF  LOANS ...................................................       54
G-NOTES TO  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ....................................    63
H-OPINION  OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ..................................    65
I-ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING
JUNE  30, 1955 ...................................................       66
J-VOTING POWER AND SUBSCRIPTIONS OF MEMBER
COUNTRIES ................          ...................................    67
K-GOVERNORS AND ALTERNATES ............................................    68
L-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES AND THEIR VOT-
ING POWER ................          ...................................    69
M-PRINCIPAL OFFICERS OF THE BANK ............................. ......    71
[47)



APPENDIX A
Balance Sheet
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Other Depositories
(See APPENDIX C)
Member currencies, including $9,718,201 United States
dollars
Unrestricted ....................................    $ 23,832,241
Subject to restrictions-NOTE B ..................    100,240,754    $  124,072,995
Non-member currency       ..8,952,040    $ 133,025,035
Investment Securities
United States Government obligations
($359,458,000 face amount; at cost less amortized
premium) ............... ...................    $359,449,112
Canadian Government obligations
(Can $12,600,000 face amount; at cost plus accumu-
lated discount and less amortized premium) ........  11,499,673
United Kingdom Government obligations
( 120,000 face amount; at cost) ...... ............     335,811
Swiss Government obligations
(Sw fr 27,000,000 face amount; at cost) ..... .......  6,257,126   $  377,541,722
Accrued interest           ..4,987,222   382,528,944
Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital
(See APPENDIX D)
Receivable in United States currency
Calls on subscription to capital stock-NOTE C....                  $    3,495,000
Receivable in other member currencies-NOTE B
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand  notes                   892,604,632       896,099,632
Effective Loans Held by Bank
(See APPENDIX F)-NOTE D
(Including undisbursed balance of $372,752,699)                                          1,662,741,268
Accrued Interest, Commitment and Service Charges on
Loans-NOTE  D                                                                               10,792,645
Receivable on Account of Loans Sold or Agreed to be
Sold                                                                                         7,189,879
Otber Receivables and Other Assets                                                              432,038
Special Reserve Fund Assets-NOTE E
Due from Banks-member currency-United States                         $         948
Investment securities-United States Government obli-
gations ($45,928,000 face amount; at cost)                              45,928,000
Accrued loan commissions-NOTE D                                            3,020,896       48,949,844
Staff Retirement Plan Assets
(Segregated and held in trust)                                                              2,872,939
Total Assets                                    $3,144,632,224
t48)



APPENDIX A
June 30, 1954
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable  and  accrued  expenses, including  $8,047,176  bond
interest .................      ....................................                           $   8,893,973
Collection on loans in advance of due date ...........................                                 711,415
Undisbursed balance of loans (See APPENDIX F)
On loans held by Bank ........................................    $ 372,752,699
On loans sold or agreed to be sold ...............................             7,251,086         380,003,785
Funded debt (See APPENDIX E)
(Of this amount $12,614,258 is due within one year)      ................                        776,678,354
Bonds called for redemption not presented ...........................    $            2,020
Less funds on deposit with Fiscal Agent therefor      ........                     2,020
Reserves for Losses
Special reserve-NOTE E ........................................    $   48,949,844
Supplemental reserve against losses on loans and guarantees-NOTE F ....          96,821,914         145,771,758
Staff Retirement Plan Reserve                                                                           2,872,939
Capital (See APPENDIX D)
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 91,485 shares .....................................    $9,148,500,000
Less-Uncalled portion of subscriptions-NOTE G ...............            7,318,800,000       1,829,700,000
Contingent Liability-LOANS SOLD UNDER GUARANTEE-
NOTE H .....                                                 $26,380,036
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital                       $3,144,632,224
{ 49]



APPENDIX B
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1953 andJune 30, 1954
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
July 1-June 30
1952-1953     1953-1954
Incoame
Interest earned on investments       .........................                  9,245,538   $ 9,381,722
Income from loans:
Interest ............................................................    29,983,062    37,785,728
Commitment charges             ..........................                     3,366,376    3,057,763
Commissions .......................................................          9,551,822    11,713,368
Service charges             ............................                        99,879        90,804
Other income .........................................................           144,352       231,912
Gross Income       $52,391,029   $62,261,297
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commissions appropriated to Special Reserve-
NOTE E ............................................................    9,551,822    11,713,368
Gross Income Less Reserve Deduction         $42,839,207   $50,547,929
E3xpenses
Administrative expenses:
Personal services           .............................   $ 3,374,507   $ 3,532,341
Fees and compensation                .................                         317,772       462,786
Representation    ......................................................        61,178        67,927
Travel .............................................................           843,360       767,225
Supplies and material               .................                           33,636        42,230
Rents and utility services           ................                          432,430       427,102
Communication services                .................                        111,476       130,986
Furniture and equipment                ................                         31,887        37,218
Books and library services            ................                          71,720        66,198
Printing ...........................................................            67,946        50,758
Contributions to staff benefits          ...............                       344,394       359,864
Insurance ..........................................................            31,864        21,786
Handling and storage of gold              .         ............                   -             687
Other expenses ......................................................            2,100         5,294
Total Administrative Expenses .. .    $ 5,724,270   $ 5,972,402
Interest on bonds .......................................................    16,208,117    20,649,318
Bond issuance and other financial expenses-NOTE I   ...............            2,421,409     3,617,806
Gross Expenses       $24,353,796   $30,239,526
Net Income-Appropriated to Supplemental Reserve Against Losses on Loans and
Guarantees-NOTE F ................................................. $18,485,411   $20,308,403
{50}1



APPENDIX C
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1954
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Amount Expressed                              Total Expressed
Unit of             in Member Currency                             in United States
Currency               (Restricted)      Rate of Exchange              Dollars
Member Currencies
Australia                    Pound                    152,559        $ =      0.4464         S   341,733
Austria                      Schilling              1,267,746        $ =     26.00                48,759
Belgium                      Franc                 22,309,026        $ =     50.00               446,180
Bolivia                      Boliviano              2,249,308        $ =    190.00                11,S38
Brazil                       Cruzeiro             348,047,296        $ =      18.50            18,813,367
Burma                        Kyat                     100,271        $ =      4.7619              21,057
Canada                       Dollar                 3,372,258         $ =      1.10             3.065,689
Ceylon                       Rupee                     89,149        $ =      4.7619              18,721
Chile                        Peso                 688,713,517        $ =    110.00              6,261,032
China                        Gold Yuan             21,550,341        $ =     20.00              1,077,517
Colombia                     Peso                  12,168,669        $ =      1.949981         6,240,404
Costa Rica                   Col6n                  1,991,665        $ =      5.615              354,704
Cuba                         Peso                      54,604        $ =       1.00               54,604
Czechoslovakia               Koruna                 1,581,169        $ =      7.20               219,607
Denmark                      Krone                  1,249,418        $ =      6.90714            180,888
Dominican Republic           Peso                         982        5 =       1.00                  982
Ecuador                      Sucre                  8,432,641        $ =      15.00              562,176
Egypt                        Pound                     18,810        $ =      0.3482              54,014
El Salvador                  Col6n                    427,389        $ =      2.50               170,956
Ethiopia                     Dollar                 1,277,502        $ =      2.4845             514,195
Finland                      Markka              1,570,707,721       $ =    230.00              6,829,164
France                       Franc               1,328,742,113       $ =    349.60              3,800,750
Germany                      Mark                   1,751,892        $ =      4.20               417,117
Greece                       Drachma               22,440,000        $ =       5.00             4,488,000
Guatemala                    Quetzal                  349,580        $ =       1.00              349,580
Haiti                        Gourde                    13,500        $ =       5.00                2.700
Honduras                     Lempira                  354,740        $ =      2.00               177,370
Iceland                      Kr6na                  2,861,293        $ =     16.2857             175,694
India                        Rupee                  2,987,998        $ =      4.7619             627,480
Indonesia                    Rupiah                 2,257,200        $ =     11.40               198,000
Iran                         Rial                   1,003,439        $ =     32.25                31,114
Iraq                         Dinar                      2,010        $ =      0.3571               5,628
Italy                        Lira                  93,069,669        $ =    350.00               265,913
Japan                        Yen                  156,010,995        $ =    360.00               433,364
Jordan                       Dinar                      1,106        $ =      0.3571               3,096
Lebanon                      Pound                  1,688,028        $ =      2.19148            770,269
Luxembourg                   Franc                    615,223        $ =     50.00                12,304
Mexico                       Peso                 144,749,557        $ =     12.50             11,579,965
Netherlands                  Guilder                3,736,784        $ =      3.80               983,364
Nicaragua                    C6rdoba                  640,619        $ =      5.00               128,124
Norway                       Krone                  1,556,908        $ =      7.14286            217,967
Pakistan                     Rupee                    436,068        $ =      3.30852            131,807
Panama                       Balboa                    26,970        $=       1.00                26,970
Paraguay                     Guarani                3,098,739        $ =     15.00               206,583
Peru                         Sol                      108,079        $ =      6.50                16,627
Philippine Republic          Peso                   2,376,584        $=       2.00              1,188,292
Sweden                       Krona                 84,933,341        $ =      5.17321          16,417,919
Syria                        Pound                     24,300        $=       2.19148             11,088
Thailand                     Baht                      86,997        $=      12.50                 6,960
Turkey                       Lira                      69,057        $=       2.80                24,663
Union of South Africa        Pound                    450,403        $ =      0.3571            1,261,129
United Kingdom               Pound                    117,256        $ =      0.3571             328,317
United States                Dollar                   276,412        $ =                         276,412
Uruguay                      Peso                   2,802,558        $ =      1.519             1,844,942
Venezuela                    Bolivar                4,561,828        $ =      3.35              1,361,740
Yugoslavia                   Dinar              2,154,575,650        $=    300.00              7,181,919
Restriaed Currency (NOTE B)                                                $100,240,754
Unrestricted Currency (Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Italy, Norway, Sweden,
Union of South Africa, United Kingdom and United States)                  23,832,241
$124,072,995
Non-Member Currency (Switzerland)                                                                 8,952,040
Total        $133,025,035
L 51i



APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-
June 30, 1954
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Finsancial Statemnents, Appendix G
Amounts Paid in
In Currency of In Non-Interest-               Subject to
cifember Other  Bearing, Non-                Call to Meet
Sub_script_ions            In T_han United            Negotiable     Amozunts      Obligations Number
Amount         United States  States Dollars   Demand Notes     Due          of Bank       of
Mllember    Shares    (Note J)          Dollars       (Note B)        (Note B)      (Note C)       (Note G)    Votes
Australia     2,000  $ 200,000,000    $  4,000,000    $   360,368    $ 35,639,632    $   -        S 160,000,000    2,250
Austria         500      50,000,000       1,000,000        299,018        8,700,982        -          40,000,000     750
Belgium       2,250     225,000,000       4,500,000       4,844,422      35,655,578        -         180,000,000    2,500
Bolivia          70       7,000,000         140,000          12,600       1,247,400        -           5,600,000     320
Brazil        1,050     105,000,000       2,100,000      18,900,000         -              -          84,000,000    1,300
Burma           150      15,000,000         300,000         27,000        2,673,000        -          12,000,000     400
Canada        31250    325,000,000        6,500,000      40,689,546      17,810,454        -         260,000,000    3,500
Ceylon          150      15,000,000         300,000          32,997       2,667,003        -          12,000,000     400
Chile           350      35,000,000         700,000       6,300,000         -              -          28,000,000     600
China         6,000    600,000,000        9,130,000       1,080,000     106,920,000     2,870,000    480,000,000    6,250
Colombia        350      35,000,000        700,000        6,300,000         -             -           28,000,000     600
Costa Rica       20       2,000,000          40,000        360,000          -              -           1,600,000     270
Cuba            350      35,000,000         700,000         63,000        6,237,000        -          28,000,000     600
Czechoslovakia  1,250   125,000,000       1,875,000        225,000       22,275,000      625,000     100,000,000    1,500
Denmark         680      68,000,000       1,360,000       1,570,177      10,669,823        -          54,400,000     930
Dominican
Republic       20       2,000,000          40,000          3,600         356,400        -            1,600,000     270
Ecuador          32       3,200,000          64,000        576,000          -              -           2,560,000     282
Egypt           533      53,300,000       1,066,000         95,940        9,498,060        -          42,640,000     783
El Salvador      10       1,000,000          20,000        180,000          -             -             800,000      260
Ethiopia         30       3,000,000          60,000        540,000          -              -           2,400,000     280
Finland         380      38,000,000         760,000       6,840,000         -             -           30,400,000     630
France        5,250     525,000,000      10,500,000      22,932,494      71,567.506       -         420,000,000    5,500
Germany       3,300     330,000,000       6,600,000       1,279,220      58,120,780       -          264,000,000    3,550
Greece          250      25,000,000         500,000       4,500,000         -             -           20,000,000     500
Guatemala        20       2,000,000         40,000         360,000          -             -            1,600,000     270
Haiti .7         20       2,000,000          40,000          3,600         356,400        -            1,600,000     2,70
Honduras         10       1,000,000          20,000        180,000          -             -             800,000      260
Iceland          10       1.000,000          20,000        180,000          -                           800,000      260
India         4,000    400,000,000        8,000,000        721,800       71,278,200       -          320,000,000    4,250
Indonesiav    1,100     110,000,000       2,200,000        198,000       19,602,000       -           88,000,000    1,350
Iran            336      33,600,000         672,000         60,480        5,987,520        _          26,880,000     586
Iraq             60       6,000,000         120,000         20,880        1,059,120       -            4,800,000     310
Italy         1,SG0     180,000,000       3,600,000       3,685,714      28,714,286       -          144,000,000    2,050
Japan         2,500    250,000,000        5,000,000        450,000       44,550,000       -          200,000,000    2,750
Jordan           30       3,000,000          60,000          5,400         534,600        -            2,400,000     280
Lebanon          45       4,500,000          90,000        810,000          -             -            3,600,000     295
Luxembcurg      100      10,000,000         200,000         18,000        1,782,000       -            8,000,000     350
Mexico          650      65,000,000       1,300,000      11,700,000         -             -           52,000,000     900
Netherlands    2.750    275,000,000       5,500,000       2,131,579      47,368,421       -          220,000,000    3,000
Nicaragua         S        800,000           16,000        144,000          -             -             640,000      258
Norway          500      50,000,000       1,000,000        370,000        8,630,000       -           40,000,000     750
Pakistan      1,000     100,000,000       2,000,000        180,008       17,819,992       -           80,000,000    1,250
Panama            2        200,000            4,000         36,000          -             -             160,000      252
Paraguay         14       1,400,000          28,000        252,000          -             -            1,120,000     264
Peru            175      17,500,000         350.000         62,269        3,087,731       -           14,000,000     425
Philippines     150      15,000,000         300,000       1,200.000       1,500,000       -           12,000,000     400
Sweden        1,000     100,000,000       2,000,000      18,000,000         -             -           80,000,000    1,250
Syria            65       6,500,000         130,000         43,642        1,126,358       -            5,200,000     315
Thailand        125      12,500,000         250,000         42,500        2,207,500       -           10,000,000     375
Turkey          430      43,000,000         860,000        113,114        7,626,886        -          34,400,000     680
Union of
South Africa  1,000   100,000,000       2,000,000       4,100,000      13,900,000       -           80,000,000    1,250
United
Kingdom    13,000   1,300,000,000      26,000,000       9,090,000    224,910,000        -        1,040,000,000   13,250
United States  31,750   3,175,000,000   635,000,000         -               -             -        2,540,000,000   32,000
Uruguay         105      10,500,000        210,000        1,890,000         -              -           8,400,000     355
Venezuela       105      10,500,000         210,00(0      1,365,000        525,000        -            8,400,000     355
Yugoslavia      400      40,000,000         800,000       7,200,000         -             -           32,000,000     650
91,485  $9,148,500,000   S750,975,000    $182,625,368    $892,604,632   $3,495,000  $7,318,800,000  105,485
[52}



APPENDIX E
Funded Debt of the Bank-June 30, 1954
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
See Note A of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Principal                  Annual Sinking
Issze and Maturity                         Outstanding                 Fund Requirement
Payable in United States Dollars
2%o Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1955-62                s 80,000,000                   None
3% Three Year Bonds of 1953, due 1956                  75,000,000                   None
32% Fifteen Year Bonds of 1954, due 1969             100,000,000           1957-66         S ,000,000
1967-68        S5,000,000
32% Nineteen Year Bonds of 1952, due 1971             60,000,000           1957-66         S 2000,000
1967-70        S 2,500,000
3% Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1947,                                          1958-62         $ 3,000,000
due 1972                                            150,000,000           1963-67         $ 4,500,000
33/s% Twenty-Three Year Bonds of 1952,                                      1968-72         $ 7,500,000
due 1975                                             50,000,000           1958            $ 1,000,000
3 go% Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1951,                                       1959-74         $ 1,500,000
due 1976                                             50,000,000           1963            $ 1,000,000
1964-7 5       $ 2,000,000
31%5,' Thirty Year Bonds of 195 1,                                         1966-67         $ 2,000,000
due 1981                                            100,000,000           1968-73         $ 3,000,000
1974-80        $ 4,000,000
Sub-Total         $665,000,000
Payable in Canadian Dollars
4% Ten Year Bonds of 1952, due 1962                    13,636,363            1955-60       Can$700,000
(Can$15,000,000)                                  $     9)                1961          CanS800,000
32% Fifteen Year Bonds of 1954, due 1969              22,727,273           1959-65        Can$800,000
(Can$25,000,000)                                                          1966-68       Can$900,000
Sub-Total         $ 36,363,636
Payable in Pounds Sterling
31/2 % Twenty Year Stock of 1951,
due 1971 (5,000,000)                              $ 14,000,000           1957-71            :166,70()
Payable in Swiss Francs
21/2%  Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1954-56
(Sw fr 13,500,000)                                $  3,141,361                    None
31/2% Ten Year Bonds of 1952, due 1962
(Sw fr 50,000,000)                                  11,634,673                    None
3Y2o Twelve Year Bonds of 1951, due 1963
(Sw fr 50,000,000)                                  11,634,671                    None
31/2% Fifteen Year Bonds of 1953, due 1968
(Sw fr 50,000,000)                                  11,634,671                    None
31/2% Fifteen Year Bonds of 1953 (Nov. Issue),
due 1968 (Sw fr 50,000,000)                          11,634,671                   None
31/2 % Eighteen Year Bonds of 1954, due 1972
(Sw fr 50,000,000)                                  11,634,671                   None
Sub-Total         $ 61,314,718
Gross Total       $776,678,354
Each issue, except the 2%  Serial Bonds of 1950, is subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of the Bank at
varying prices and upon the conditions stated in the respective bonds. The amounts shown as annual sinking fund requirements
are the principal amounts of bonds to be purchased or redeemed to meet each year's requirement, except that in the case of the
312% Twenty Year Stock of 1951 the amount shown is the amount of funds to be provided annually for purchase or redemption.
The following table shows the aggregate principal amount of the maturities and sinking fund requirements each year for the
five years following the date of this statement:
Year Ending Juvie 30                            Amount
1955                                  S 12,614,258
1956                                     11,799,831
1957                                     86,103,124
1958                                     18,103,124
1959                                     22,330,397
$150,950,734
t53 



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loar
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURREN(
Interest
Rate
Loan                                                                              Date of                  (Inc7l-din
Number        Borrower and Guarantor'              Program or Project           Loan Agreement    Maturities Commiss'-
29  AU   Amstralia                       Equipment and materials for development  Aug. 22, 1950    1955-1975    41/4%
66  AU                                   Equipment and materials for development  July  8, 1952    1957-1972    43/4%
96  AU                                   Equipment and materials for development  Mar. 2, 1954    1957-1969    4 3/4%
14  BE    Belgium                        Equipment for steel and power industries   Mar.  1, 1949    1953-1969    4V4%
48  BE                                   Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
velopment Plan of the Belgian Congo    Sept. 13, 1951    1957-1976    4/2%
Belgium (Guarantor)
47  BE      Belgian Congo                Equipment and materials for 10-year De-
velopment Plan of the Belgian Congo    Sept. 13, 1951    1957-1976    4V2%
65  BR    Brazil                         Railway rehabilitation                 June 27, 1952    1955-1967    45/x%
75  BR                                   Highway maintenance and improvement  April 30, 1953    1954-1959    44%
*92  BR                                   Railway rehabilitation                 Dec. 18, 1953    1959-1969    47/s%
Brazil (Guarantor)
11  BR      Brazilian Traction           Electric power development and telephone
(First Installment)         equipment                           Jan. 27, 1949    1953-1974    41/2%
11 BR-S    Brazilian Traction
(Second Installment)      Electric power development            Jan. 18, 1951    1955-1976    41/4%
95  BR       Brazilian Traction          Electric power development             Feb. 24, 1954    1955-1974    47/s%
25  BR      Sao Francisco Hidro Elet. Co. Electric power development            May 26, 1950    1954-1975    4g%
64  BR      Commissao Estadual de Energia
El6trica                  Electric power development             June 27, 1952    1957-1977    43,4%
76  BR      CEARG & CEMIG                Electric power development             July 17, 1953    1957-1973    5%
93  BR      Usinas Eletricas do
Paranapanema                Electric power development             Dec. 18, 1953    1958-1974    5%
Chile (Guarantor)
5  CH      Fomento and Endesa           Electric power development             Mar. 25, 1948    1953-1968    4V2%
6  CH      Fomento                      Agricultural development               Mar. 25, 1948    1950-1955    33,4%
49  CH       Fomento                     Exploration and use for irrigation of un-
derground water resources           Oct. 10, 1951    1955-1961    43g8%
83  CH      Fomento and Cia. Manufacturera
de Papeles y Cartones     Construction of paper and pulp mills   Sept. 10, 1953    1958-1970    5%
43  CO    Colombia                       Highway construction and rehabilitation   April 10, 1951    1954-1961    37/8%
68  CO                                   National railways project              Aug. 26, 1952    1957-1978    43/4%
*84  CO                                   Highway construction and rehabilitation   Sept. 10, 1953    1956-1963    43/4%
Colombia (Guarantor)
18  CO      Caja de Credito              Agricultural development               Aug. 19, 1949    1952-1956    31/2%
38  CO      CHIDRAL                      Electric power development             Nov. 2, 1950    1954-1970    4%
39  CO      Caldas Hidroelec. Co.        Electric power development             Dec. 28, 1950    1952-1971    4%
54  CO      Hidroel6ctrica del Rio Lebrija  Electric power development          Nov. 13, 1951    1954-1972    4V2%
3  DE    Denmark                        Equipment and materials for reconstruc-
tion and development                Aug. 22, 1947    1953-1972    41/4%
Ecuador (Guarantor)
*94  EC      Comite Ejecutivo de Vialidad
(Guayas)                  Highway construction                   Feb. 10, 1954    1958-1964    4Y/8%
El Salvador (Guarantor)
22  ES      Comision del Rio Lempa       Electric power development             Dec. 14, 1949    1954-1975    44%
[ 54 ]



APPENDIX F
June 30, 1954
-e Notes A, D and H of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Loans Sold or Agreed     Effective                  Undisbursed
Original      Loans      Cancellations   Principal          to be Sold            Loans         Principal    Balance of
Principal    Not Yet          and      Repayments                                 Held by        Amount       Effective
Amount      Effective'    Refundings    to Bank    Total Sales Portion Matured'    Bank         Disbursed      Loans;
100,000,000  $   -        X   -       $   -        $    -         $   -       $ 100,000,000  s 100,000,000  $    -
50,000,000      -            -            -             -            -           50,000,000      44,706,057     5,293,943
54,000,000      -            -             -                         -           54,000,000       6,418,978    47,581,022
16,000,000      -            -            -          16,000,000    1,000,000        -            15,938,793       61,207
30,000,000       -           -            -           1,250,000      -           28,750,000      28,764,000     1,236,000
40,000,000      -            -            -            650,000       -           39,350,000      38,361,000     1,639,000
12,500,000      -            -            -             -            -           12,500,000        224,214    12,275,786
3,000,000      -            -             -                         -            3,000,000       2,379,329      620,671
12,500,000   12,500,000      -            -             -            -               -              -             -
75,000,000       -           -           612,915      4,028,411     387,085      70,358,674      75,000,000       -
15,000,000      -            -            -             -            -           15,000,000      15,000,000       -
18,790,000      -            -            -             -            -           18,790,000      12,992,941     5,797,059
15,000,000      -            -            -             -            -           15,000,000      13,514,922     1,485,078
25,000,000      -            -            -             -            -           25,000,000         -          25,000,000
7,300,000      -            -            -           1,047,000      -            6,253,000       4,485,003     2,814,997
10,000,000      -            -            -             -            -           10,000,000        818,226      9,181,774
13,500,000                               669,000        -            -           12,831,000      12,588,667      911,333
2,500,000                   -           518,000      1,745,000    1,454,000        237,000       2,500,000       -
1,300,000      -            -            -             -            -            1,300,000        810,265       489,735
20,000,000                   -             -            -            -           20,000,000        107,928    19,892,072
16,500,000      -            -                         800,000       -           15,700,000      15,870,437      629,563
25,000,000      -            -             -            -            -           25,000,000       7,456,526    17,543,474
14,350,000    14,350,000      -            -            -            -              -               -             -
5,000,000      -            74,559      500,000      2,000,000    2,000,000      2,425,441      4,925,441        -
3,530,000      -            -            -            148,000       73,000       3,382,000       3,194,155      335,845
2,600,000      -            -            46,000       194,000      144,000       2,360,000       2,600,000       -
2,400,000      -            --           -             84,800       42,000       2,315,200       2,350,740       49,260
40,000,000      -            -           599,000      1,586,000     307,000      37,815,000      40,000,000       -
8,500,000    8,500,000                   -             -            -               -              -             -
12,545,000      -            -            -           1,000,000      -           11,545,000      12,354,618      190,382
(Continued)
r55s



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loa,
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURREN
Interest
Rate
Loan                                                                               Date of                  (Includi,
Number        Borrower and Guarantor'              Program or Project            Loan Agreement    Maturities Commissk-X
31  ET    Ethiopia                        Highway rehabilitation                 Sept. 13, 1950    1956-1971    4%
32  ET                                    Foreign exchange for Development Bank  Sept. 13, 1950    1956-1971    4%
42  ET                                    Rehabilitation and extension of telephone
and telegraph systems                Feb. 19, 1951    1956-1971    4%
21  FI    Finland                         Equipment for timber production        Oct. 17, 1949    1950-1951    3%
Finland (Guarantor)
16  FI      Bank of Finland               Electric power development and equip-
ment for wood products industries and
limestone powder production          Aug.  1, 1949    1953-1964    4%
61  FI       Bank of Finland              Electric power, wood products industries
and agricultural development         April 30, 1952    1955-1970    43/4%
70  FI       Bank of Finland              Electric power, wood products industries
and agricultural development
(Supplemental Loan Agreement)       Nov. 13, 1952    1955-1970    43/4%
France (Guarantor)
1  FR      Credit National              Equipment and materials for reconstruc-
tion and development                 May  9, 1947    1952-1977    41/4%
100  FR      Central Office of French     Railway improvement
Overseas Railways                                                 June 10, 1954    1956-1966    4V2%
46  IC    Iceland                         Electric power development             June 20, 1951    1956-1973    43/8%
53  IC                                    Agricultural development               Nov.  1, 1951    1956-1973    4V2%
69  IC                                    Fertilizer plant                       Aug. 26, 1952    1954-1969    43/4%
Iceland (Guarantor)
79  IC      Iceland Bank of Development Agricultural development                 Sept. 4, 1953    1958-1975    5%
80  IC      Iceland Bank of Development Construction of radio transmitter building  Sept. 4, 1953    1954-1966    43/4%
17  IN    India                          Railway rehabilitation                  Aug. 18, 1949    1950-1964    4%
19  IN                                    Agricultural development               Sept. 29, 1949    1952-1956    32%
23  IN                                    Electric power development             April 18, 1950    1955-1970    4 %
72  IN                                    Electric power development, flood control
and irrigation                       Jan. 23, 1953    1956-1977    47/s%
India (Guarantor)
71  IN      Indian Iron & Steel Company    Expansion of iron and steel production
facilities                          Dec. 18, 1952    1959-i967    43/4%o
26  IRQ   Iraq                            Construction of a flood control project June 15, 1950    1956-1965    33/4%
Italy (Guarantor)
50  IT      Cassa per il Mezzogiorno      Equipment and materials for Development
Plan of Southern Italy               Oct. 10. 1951    1956-1976    4%/2
83  IT       Cassa per il Mezzogiorno     Equipment and materials for Development
Plan of Southern Italy               Oct.  6, 1953    1958-1978    5%
Japan (Guarantor)
89  JA       Japan Development Bank       Electric power development             Oct. 15, 1953    1957-1973    5%
90  JA       Japan Development Bank       Electric power development             Oct. 15, 1953    1957-1973    5%
91  JA       Japan Development Bank       Electric power development             Oct. 15, 1953    1957-1973    5%
4  LU    Luxembourg                      Equipment for steel mill and railroads  Aug. 28, 1947    1949-1972    414z% go
(56i



APPENDIX F
June 30, 1954 (Continued)
e Notes A, D anid H of Notes to Financial Statements, Appenzdix G
Loans Sold or Agreed      Effective                  Undisbursed
Original    Loans       Cancellations   Principal          to be Sold             Loans         Principal    Balance of
Principal    Not Yet        and       Repayments                                 Held by        Amount       Effective
Amount    Effective'     Ref undings    to Bank    Total Sales Portion Matured'   Bank         Disb6rsed      Loans'
5,000,000  $   -       $   -        $   -        $    -        $   -          $  5,000.000    $  5,000,000  $    -
2,000,000      -            -            -             -            -            2,000,000        986,852      1,013,148
1,500,000      -            -                          -            -            1,500,000         90,212      1,409,788
2,300.000      -           197,869    2,102,131        -                            -            2,102,131       -
12,500,000      -            -          1,057,990     1,559,010    1,134,010      9,883,000      12,500,000       -
20,000,000      -                          -            -            -           20,000,000      13,729,643     6,270,357
3,479,464      -             _-                        -                         3,479,464       1,379,594     2,099,870
250,000,000      -            --            18,000     8,306,000    5,316,000    241,676,000     250,000,000       -
7,500,00O    7,500,000      -            -           Note 5         -              -               -             -
2,450,000      -            -            -             -            -            2,450,000       2,450,000       -
1,008,000      -            -            -             -            -            1,008,000      1,008,000        -
854,000       -            -            -            -             -             854,000         854,000        -
1,350,000      -            -            -             -            -            1,350,000       1,071,510      278,490
252,000      -             -            -            -             -             252,000         119,456       132,544
34,000,000      -          1,200,000    4,298,228     6,264,302    2,959,255     22,237,470      32,800,000       -
10,000,000      -          2,796,187     850,000      3,875,000    3,400,000      2,478,813      7,203,813        -
18,500,000      -            -            -            315,000       -           18,185,000      15,913,218     2,586,782
19,500,000      -         9,000,000       -                                      10,500,000         -          10,500,000
31,500,000   31,500,000                          -                                  -               -             -
12,800,000     -                                        -            -           12,800,000       6,067,865     6,732,135
10,000,000      -            -            -             -            -           10,000,000      10,000,000       -
10,000,000       -           -            -             -            -           10,000,000      7,517,303      2,482,697
21,500,000       -           -            -           3,244,288      -           18,255,712       1,728,387    19,771,613
11,200,000       -           -            -           1,653,591      -            9,546,409        906,837    10,293,163
7,500,000       -           -            -           1,245,000      -            6,255,000       1,475,385     6.024,615
12,000,000      -           238,017      187,983      2,704,000    1,057,000      8,870,000      11,761,983       -
(Co57 isziei
571



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loa;,
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENt
Interest
Rate
Loan                                                                               Date of                  (Includks.,
Number        Borrower and Guarantor'              Program or Project            Loan Agreement    Maturities Comm-hT
Mexico (Guarantor)
12  ME      Financiera and Comision       Electric power development             Jan.  6, 1949    1953-1973    41V2%
13  ME      Financiera and Comision       Electric power development             Jan.  6, 1949  July 1, 1950    4V2%
24  ME       Mexican Light and Power Co. Electric power development              April 28, 1950    1953-1975    412%
33  ME      Consortium of Eight Mexican  Foreign exchange for small private enter-
Banks & Nacional Financiera  prises                               Oct. 18, 1950    1952-1957    31/2%
56  ME       Financiera and Comision      Electric power development             Jan. 11, 1952    1955-1977    41/2%
2  NE   Netherlands                      Equipment and materials for reconstruc-
tion and development                Aug. 7, 1947    1954-1972    41/4 %
2a NE                                    Equipment and materials for reconstruc-
tion and development
(Supplemental Loan Agreement)       May 25, 1948    1953-1954    41/4%
Netherlands (Guarantor)
7,7a  NE       N.V. Stoomvaart Mij.
"Nederland"                Purchase of S.S. Raki and S.S. Roebiah    July  15, 1948    1949-1958    3/16%
8  NE      N.V. Vereenigde Schvrt. Mij.   Purchase of S. S. Almkerk             July  15, 1948    1949-1958    3Y16%
9  NE      N.V. Ned.-Amer. Stoomvaart-Mij.
"Holland-Amerika Lijn"    Purchase of S. S. Alblasserdijk        July  15, 1948    1949-1958    3Y16%
10, lOa NE    N.V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd      Purchase of S. S. Friesland and S. S. Drente  July  15, 1948    1949-1958    3Y16%
15  NE      Herstelbank                   Equipment for reconstruction and mod-
ernization of particular industrial plants  July 26, 1949    1952-1964    4%
59  NE      KLM  (Royal Dutch Airlines)  Purchase of Aircraft                    Mar. 20, 1952    1954-1958    4 /8%
45  NI   Nicaragua                        Highway construction                   June  7, 1951    1954-1961    4V/8%
52  NI                                    Construction of grain storage facilities    Oct. 29, 1951    1954-1962    43 %c
81  NI                                    Highway construction                   Sept. 4, 1953    1957-1963    434%
82  NI                                    Electric power development             Sept. 4, 1953    1955-1963    43/4%
Nicaragua (Guarantor)
44  NI       Banco Nacional de Nicaragua   Agricultural development              June  7, 1951    1954-1958    4%
97  NO   Norway                           Purchase of merchant ships             April 8, 1954    1957-1974    43/4%
60  PAK  Pakistan                         Railway rehabilitation                 Mar. 27, 1952    1954-1967    45/s%
62  PAK                                   Agricultural development               June 13, 1952    1954-1959    41/8%
Pakistan (Guarantor)
*99  PAK    Sui Gas Transmission Co.       Construction of natural gas transmission
line                                 June  2, 1954    1956-1974    43/4%
Panama (Guarantor)
86  PAN    Instituto de Fomento Econ6mico Agricultural development               Sept. 25, 1953    1955-1960    45/8%
87  PAN    Instituto de Fomento Econ6mico Construction of grain storage facilities    Sept. 25, 1953    1955-1961    45/8%
55  PA    Paraguay                        Agricultural development               Dec.  7, 1951    1954-1960    43/8%
57  PE    Peru                            Port development                       Jan. 23, 1952    1954-1967    4V2%
67  PE                                    Agricultural development               July  8, 1952    1954-1959    41/8%
98  PE                                    Agricultural development               April 12, 1954    1956-1961    4V4%
40  SA    South Africa                    Expansion of transport facilities      Jan. 23, 1951    1956-1965    33/4%
77  SA                                    Expansion of transport facilities      Aug. 28, 1953    1955-1963    43/4%
{58}



APPENDIX F
-June 30, 1954 (Continued)
e Notes A, D and H of Notes to Financial Statements, Appendix G
Loans Sold or Agreed     Effective                    Undisbursed
Original       Loans       Cancellations   Principal        to be Sold            Loans          Principal     Balance of
Principal      Not Yet         and       Repayments                               Held by         Amount        Effective
Amount        Effective9    Refundings    to Bank   Total Sales Portion Matured'    Bank         Disbursed      Loans'
24,100,000   $  -        $   -        $  464,700  $  1,135,300  $  735,300  $  22,500,000  $  22,378,078  $  1,721,922
10,000,000               10,000,000 (Refunding)                      -               -               -            -
26,000,000      -            -           352,000       606,000      360,000      25,042,000      26,000,000       -
10,000,000      -         9,472,112      226,897        -            -             300,991         527,888        -
29,700,000      -            -            -            200,000       -           29,500,000      13,428,834    16,271,166
191,044,212      -            -              5,212     9,380,000     677,000     181,659,000     191,044,212       -
3,955,788       -           _            -           3,955,788    3,955,788        -             3,955,788       -
4,000,000       -                        -           4,000,000    4,000,000         -            4,000,000        -
2,000,000       -                        -           2,000,000    2,000,000        -             2,000,000       -
2,000,000       -                        -           2,000,000    2,000,000        -             2,000,000       -
4,000,000       -                        -           4,000,000    4,000,000         -            4,000,000        -
15,000,000                 7,548,015     775,669      2,517,219    1,349,331      4,159,097       7,451,985       -
7,000,000       -                        -           3,500,000     700,000       3,500,000       7,000,000       -
3,500,000       -           -            58,000        29,000       29,000       3,413,000       1,932,099     1,567,901
550,000       -             3,006      -              29,000      -              517,994         546,994        -
3,500,000       _                                          _                     3,500,000        907,339      2,592,661
450,000       -                         -                          -             450,000         262,379       187,621
1,200,000       -            6,879      245,000        29,000       29,000        919,121        1,193,121       -
25,000,000       -                        -           2,016,000      -           22,984,000      10,000,000    15,000,000
27,200,000       -                        -            735,600        -          26,464,400      12,379,957    14,820,043
3,250,000      -            -            -            997,000      241,000       2,253,000       2,061,750     1,188,250
14,000,000   14,000,000      -            -           Note 6         -               -               -            -
1,200,000      -            -            -             -            -            1,200,000        259,894       940,106
290,000       -                        -             -             -             290,000          -            290,000
5,000,000       -           -           100,000       100,000       -            4,800,000       1,688,100     3,311,900
2,500,000       -           -            68,000       468,000       -            1,964,000       1,319,704     1,180,296
1,300,000      -            -            -            173,250       -            1,126,750       1,300,000       -
1,700,000      -            -            -            250,000       -            1,450,000        533,612      1,166,388
20,000,000      -            -            -            -             -           20,000,000      20,000,000        -
30,000,000      -            -            -            950,000       -           29,050,000      30,000,000       -
(Continued)
593



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loai'
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CtUR REN(
I nterest
Rate
Loan                                                                                   Date of                   (Includin-
Number        Borro -uer and Guarantor'              Program or Project             Loan Agreement    Maturities Comnisssi-
South Africa (Guarantor)
41  SA       Electricity Supply Commission   Electric power development             Jan. 23, 1951    1954-1970    4%
78  SA       Electricity Supply Commission   Electric power development             Aug. 28, 1953    1955-1963    4314%
35  TH    Thailand                          Railway rehabilitation                  Oct. 27, 1950    1954-1966    33/4%
36  TH                                     Irrigation                               Oct. 27, 1950    1956-1971    4%
37  TH                                      Port construction & development         Oct. 27, 1950    1954-1966    33/4%
27  TU    Turkey                           Construction of grain storage facilities    July  7, 1950    1954-1968    3'N8%
28  TU                                      Port construction & development         July  7, 1950    1956-1975    41/4%
28  TU-S                                    Port construction & development         Feb. 26, 1954    1956-1975    47/%
63  TU                                     Electric power development, irrigation and
flood control                         June 18, 1952    1957-1977    43/4%
Turkey (Guarantor)
34  TUJ      Industrial Development        Foreign exchange for development of pri-
Bank of Turkey                vate industry                          Oct. 19, 1950    1957-1965    33/4%
85  TU       Industrial Development         Foreign exchange for development of pri-
Bank of Turkey                vate industry                         Sept. 10, 1953    1958-1968    47/8%
United Kingdom (Guarantor)
58  SR       Southern Rhodesia              Electric power development              Feb. 27, 1952    1956-1977    4/4%
74  NR       Northern Rhodesia              Railway development                     Mar. 11, 1953    1956-1972    43/4%
Uruguay (Guarantor)
30  UR       UTE                           Electric power development and telephone
equipment                             Aug. 25, 1950    1955-1974    41/4 %
20  YU    Yugoslavia                       Equipment for timber production          Oct. 17, 1949    1950-1951    3%
51  YU                                     Equipment for electric power, coal mining,
non-ferrous metal development, indus-
try, forest products, agriculture and fish-
ery, and transportation projects      Oct. 11, 1951    1955-1976    4%/2
73  YU                                     Expansion of electric power, mining, in-
dustry, forestry and transportation   Feb. 11, 1953    1956-1978    47/8%
TOTALS
Denotes loans not yet effective
NOTES:
Loans made (a) to the member or (b) to a political subdivision or a public or private enterprise in the territories of the member with the member's gu-
antee.
Agreements providing for these loans have been signed, but the loans do not become effective and disbursements thereunder do not start until the bott
and guarantor, if any, take certain action and furnish certain documents to the Bank.
This includes amounts which, according to information available to the Bank, have been prepaid prior to maturity.
t 60}



APPENDIX F
June 30, 1954 (Continued)
c Notea  A, D anzd 1-H of Notes to Financial Statemens, Append;x G
Loans Sold or Agreed       Efjective                  Undisbarsed
Original      Loans      Cancellations   Principal         to be Sold              Loans         Principal    Balance of
Principal    Not Yet         and       Repayments                                 Held by        Amount        Effective
Amount      Effective'    Ref un.dings    to Bank   Total Sales Portion Matured'   Bank         Disbursed      Loans'
30,000,000               $            $ --            2224,560    $624,560  $  27,775,440  $  30,000,000  $    -
30,000,000                                             -             -           30,000,000      11,797,563    18.202,437
3,000,000      -            -                         189,000       95,000       2,811,000       3,000,000       -
18,000,000      --                                                   -           18,000,000      15,430,635     2.569,365
4,400,000                   -             5,000       275,000      135,000       4,120,000       3,599,943      800,057
3,900,000                   -            16,000       144,000       81,000       3,740,000       2,190,648     1,709,352
12,500,000      -            -            -            -             -           12,500,000       6,474,404     6,025,596
3,800,000             -           -                                 -             3,800,000        -           3,800,000
25,200,000      -           -             -            --                        25,200,000       7,432,154    17,767,846
9,000,000      -            -            -            -             -            9,000,000       4,916,611     4,083,389
9,000,000      -            -            -            -             -            9,000,000         16,075      8,983,925
28,000,000      -            -            -            250,000       -           27,750,000      20,603,060     7,396,940
14,000.000                   -            -            250,000       -           13,750,000      12,657,334     1,342,666
33,000,000      -            -            -            300,000       -           32,700,000      22,S02,91I6    10,197,084
2,700,000       -           -         2,700,000        -            -                -           2,700,000       -
28,000,000                   -            -            -             -           28,000,000      25,525,395     2,474,605
30,000,000                   -            -            -             -           30,000,000      18,211,134    11,788,866
i,914,448,464  i$88,350,0007 $40,536,644  $16,475,725  $102,403,119 $40,285,329 $1,666,682,976  $1,405,558,035  $380,003,785
Less exchange adjustment      3,941708
$1,662,741,268
this includes $7,251,086 of effective loans which the Bank has sold or agreed to sell. Of the Undisbursed balance, the Bank has entered into irrevocable
o,m.nirtments to disburse $16,448,851.
An American bank has agreed to participate in Loan 100, France, to the extent of $609,000.
Six British banks have agreed to participate in Loan 99, Pakistan, to the extent of 645,000. ($1,806,000).
I he Executive Directors have approved a loan to Ceylon for the equivalent of $19,110,000, but the loan agreement is not included in this table as the loan
.gnature formalities had not been concluded at June 30, 1954.
{61}



APPENDIX F
Statement of Loans -June 30, 1954 (Continued)
SUMMARY OF CURRENCIES REPAYABLE ON EFFECTIVE LOANS
(Expressed in United States Currency)
Amount               Repayments      Effective Loans Held
Cuirrency                        Repayable               and Sales           by Bank
Austrian Schillings              $     250,000           $    -                $      250,000
Belgian Francs                        5,387,422              607,177                4,780,245
Canadian Dollars                     60,215,808             4,907,517              55,308,291
Danish Kroner                         1,402,918               -                     1,402,918
French Francs                        19,190,305               28,604               19,161,701
German Marks                           850,603                -                       850,603
Italian Lire                          3,409,130                16,000               3,393,130
Netherlands Guilders                  1,068,949                 1,083               1,067,866
Norwegian Kroner                       152,033                -                       152,033
South African Pounds                  2,838,871                                     2,838,871
Swedish Kronor                        1,616,372               -                     1,616,372
Swiss Francs                         52,725,793             9,238,729              43,487,064
United Kingdom Pounds                21,732,362               123,482              21,608,880
United States Dollars             1,234,717,469            96,705,166            1,138,012,303
$1,405,558,035         $111,627,758           $1,293,930,277
Undisbursed Balance of Effective Loans                                            380,003,785
$1,673,934,062
Undisbursed Effective Loans
Sold or Agreed to be Sold                                 7,251,086               7,251,086
$1,405,558,035         $118,878,844           $1,666,682,976
Exchange Adjustment                                                                 3,941,708
Effective Loans Held by Bank                                                   $1,662,741,268
[62}



APPENDIX G
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1954
NOTE A                                                     extent within that member's territories, the mem-
ber shall pay to the Bank within a reasonable time
Amounts in currencies other than United States         an additional amount of its own currency suffici-
dollars have been translated into United States dollars:    ent to maintain the value, as of the time of initial
(i) In the cases of 46 members; at the par           subscription, of the amount of the currency of such
values as specified in the "Schedule of Par Values",   member which is held by the Bank and derived
published by the International Monetary Fund; and      from currency originally paid in to the Bank by
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 10 members       the member under Article II, Section 7 (i), from
(Canada, China, Czechoslovakia, France, Greece,        currency referred to in Article IV, Section 2 (b),
Indonesia, Italy, Peru, Thailand and Uruguay),         or from any additional currencv furnished under
the par values of whose currencies are not so          the provisions of the pesent paragraph, and which
specified, at the rates used by such members in        has not been repurchased by the member for gold
making  capital payments.  On  June  1, 1953           or for the currency of any member which is ac-
Czechoslovakia, in consequence of a monetary re-       ceptable to the Bank.
form, established a new currency with a new gold          (b) Whenever the par value of a member's cur-
content and  unilaterally  converted  the  Bank's      rency is increased, the Bank shall return to such
holdings of currency and demand notes of Czecho-       member within a reasonable time an amount of
slovakia into the new currency at the new exchange     that member's currency equal to the increase in the
rate. These financial statements reflect the adjust-   value of the amount of such currency described in
ment but the Bank has not recognized Czechoslo-         (a) above.
vakia's right to take such action without the Bank's      (c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs
approval.                                              may be waived by the Bank when a uniform pro-
(iii) In the case of non-member currency, all        porrionate change in the par values of the cur-
Swiss francs, at the rate of 4.2975 Swiss francs to    rencies of all its members is made by the Inter-
1 United States dollar.                                national Monetary Fund.
No representation is made that any of such curren-
cies is convertible into any other of such currencies at  NOTE C
any rate or rates. See also Note B.                         Under Article I1, Section 8 (a) (i), any original
member of the Bank whose metropolitan territories
NOTE B                                                 suffered from  enemy occupation or hostilities during
These currencies and notes are derived from  the   World War II had a right to postpone payment of 1/2
18%  of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the  of 1% of the amount of its subscription payable in gold
Bank which is payable in the currencies of the respec-  or United States dollars until June 25, 1951. All mem-
tive members, Such 18%ae     may be loaned by the Bank,    bers who received such a postponement have made pay-
and funds received by the Bank on account of principal  ment in full except China and Czechoslovakia. China
andfunds madeeive by the Bank onuaccnt of s urrincismay    has made payments totaling $130,000 and has stated
of loans made by the Bank out of such currencies may    that it recognized its obligation to the Bank and would
be  exchanged for other currencies  or reloaned, only    pay the balance of $2,870,000 as soon as it was in a
with the approval in each case of the member whose     position to do so. Pursuant to resolution of the Board
currency iS involved; provided, however, that, if neces-    of Governors adopted on September 12, 1953, Czecho-
sary, after the Bank's subscribed capital is entirely called,    slovakia was suspended from membership in the Bank
such currencies may, without restriction by the members    effective on December 31, 1953, and under the Articles,
whose currencies are offered, be used or exchanged for  Czechoslovakia will cease to be a member of the Bank
the currencies required to meet contractual payments of  on December 31, 1954, in the absence of further action.
interest, other charges or amortization on the Bank's
own borrowings or to meet the Bank's liabilities with  NOTE D
respect to contractual payments on loans guaranteed
by it. These currencies of the several members, and the     The principal disbursed and outstanding on loans
notes issued by them for any part of such currencies, as    and the accrued charges for interest, commitment fee,
permitted under the provisions of Article V, Section 12,    service charge and loan commission are receivable in
are held on deposit with designated depositories in the  United States dollars except the following amounts for
territories of the respective member.                  which the dollar equivalent is shown:
Article II, Section 9 provides for the maintenance     Principal Outstanding        $ 155,917,974
of value of such 18%  currencies as follows:                Accrued Interest, Commitment
(a) Whenever (i) the par value of a mem-               and Service Charges            1,510,431
ber's currency is reduced, or (ii) the foreign ex-     Accrued Loan Commissions           412,976
change value of a member's currency has, in the
opinion of the Bank, depreciated to a significant           Total                   $ 157,841,381
r63 



APPENDIX G
NOTE E                                                 the balance sheet as a direct liability subject to with-
The amou.t of commissions received by the Bank     drawal. The following table sets forth the maturities
on loans made or guaranteed by it is required under    of the guaranteed obligations outstanding:
Article IV, Section 6, to be set aside as a special reserve  Year Ending June 30        Amount
to be kept available for meeting obligations of the Bank        1955                  $ 7,903,343
created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all           1956                    3,156,900
loans granted to da.e the effective rate of commission          1957                    2,834,000
is 1%c per annum.                                               1958                    1,352,000
1959                    1,000,000
NOTE F                                                          Thereafter             10,195,000
Pursuant to ac-:on or the Board of Governors and                                  $26,441,243
Executive Directc:s the net income of the Bank has
been allocated to a Supplemental Reserve Against Losses  NOTE I
on Loans and Guarantees Made by the Bank, and the
future net incorre of the Bank will, until further action   The Bank has written off against income all dis-
by the Execucive Directors or the Board of Governors,    count and premium on bonds sold or redeemed in the
be allocated rc this rese.ve.                          respective years in which sale or redemption occurred.
NOTE G                                                 NOTE J
Subject to call by the Bank only when required to      In terms of United States dollars of the weight
meet the obligations of the Bank created by borrowing  and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
or guaranteeing lcans.
GENERAL
NOTE H                                                      An application for membership from Israel, with
The Bank has sold under its guarantee $57,743,844  a subscription of $4.5 million, has been approved by
of loans of which amount $31,302,601 has been retired.    the Board of Governors. Israel has until July 12, 1954
Of the balance of $26,441,243, S61,207 is reflected in    to accept membership.
[ 64 }



APPENDIX H
Opinion of Independent Auditor
1000 VERMONT AVENUE, N. W.,
WASHINGTON 5, D. C.
July 30, 1954
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 1954.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted audit-
ing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes thereto,
present fairly the financial position of the Bank at June 30, 1954,
expressed in United States currency, and the results of its operations for
the twelve months then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the
preceding year.
PRICE WATERHOUSE & Co.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1954 ............... ...   Appendix A
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the
Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1953 and June 30,
1954 ..................................   Appendix B
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30,
1954 ..................................   Appendix C
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting
Power-June 30, 1954 .....................   Appendix D
Funded Debt of the Bank-June 30, 1954 ..........   Appendix E
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1954 ...............   Appendix F
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1954 .......   Appendix G
165]



APPENDIX I
Administrative Budget
For the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1955
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1955, as prepared by the
President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. For purposes of
comparison, there are also outlined below the administrative expenses incurred during the fiscal years ended June 30,
1953, and 1954.
Actual Expenses                               Budget
1953                        1954                        1955
BOARD OF GOVERNORS                          S 214,022                   $ 130,999                    $ 165,000
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                           367.506                      365,404                      390,000
STAFF
Personal Services              3,015,174                   3,092,651                    3,342,000
Staff Benefits                  329,236                      334,454                      380,500
Consultants                     182,467                      186,084                      200,000
Travel                          555,223                      553,280                      560,000
Representation                   50,673    4,132,773          57,542    4,224,011         55,000    4,537,500
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES
Fees and Compensation            51,522                       66,259                       88,000
Supplies and Materials           32,241                       40,864                       45,000
Rents and Maintenance           427,550                      424,650                      460,000
Communications                  107,069                      128,930                      127,000
Furniture and Equipment          31,225                       35,485                       44,000
Printing                         40,350                       45,029                       45,000
Books and Library Service        71,704                       66,198                       68,000
Insurance                        31,864                       21,786                       27,500
Other                             2,100     795,625            5,981     835,182          -          904,500
CONTINGENCY                                     -                            -                         100,000
TOTAL                           5,509,926                    5,555,596                    6,097,000
SPECIAL SERVICES TO
MEMBER COUNTRIES                            214,344                      416,806                      325,000
GRAND TOTAL                    $5,724,270                   $5,972,402                   $6,422,000
No estimate has been made of bond registration, issuance and other financial expenditure for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1955. The amount of bonds which may be issued by the Bank during the year is not known. These expendi-
tures may amount to about $100,000, exclusive of commissions and premiums, for each $100 million of bonds which
the Bank may issue.
[66 }



APPENDIX J
Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries-June 30, 1954
Voting Power                      Sabscription   _
COUNTRY                            Nutmber of           Percent          Amount            Percent
Votes            of Total  (in Millions of Dollars)  of Total
Australia        ................                    2,250               2.13              200.0               2.19
Austria         .......    750                                            .71               50.0                .55
Belgium .........................           .        2,500               2.37              225.0               2.46
Bolivia ................................               320                .30                7.0                .08
Brazil ................................              1,300               1.23              105.0               1.15
Burma           ...                     ....    400                       .38               15.0                .16
Canada ................................              3,500               3.32              325.0               3.55
Ceylon          .........                              400                .38               15.0                .16
Chile .................................                600                .57               35.0                .38
China .................................              6,250               5.92              600.0               6.56
Colombia ..............................                600                .57               35.0                .38
Costa Rica         ...............                     270                .26                 2.0               .02
Cuba .................................                 600                .57               35.0                .38
*Czechoslovakia        .............                   1,500               1.42              125.0               1.37
Denmark           ...............                      930                .88               68.0                .74
Dominican Republic .          ............. ...        270                .26                 2.0               .02
Ecuador ...............................                282                .27                3.2                .03
Egypt ....                                             783                .74               53.3                .58
El Salvador        ..............                      260                .25                 1.0               .01
Ethiopia ...............................               280                .27                 3.0               .03
Finland .................. - ..........                630                .60               38.0                .42
France ................................              5,500               5.21              525.0               5.74
Germany          ................                    3,550               3.37              330.0               3.61
Greece ................................                500                .47               25.0                .27
Guatemala         ...............                      270                .26                2.0                .02
Haiti .................................                270                .26                2.0                .02
Honduras ..............................                260                .25                 1.0               .01
Iceland ................................               260                .25                 1.0               .01
India .................................              4,250               4.03              400.0               4.37
Indonesia        ................                    1,350               1.28              110.0               1.20
Iran .................................                 586                .55               33.6                .37
Iraq .................................                 310                .29                6.0                .07
Italy .................................              2,050               1.94              180.0               1.97
Japan .................................              2,750               2.61              250.0               2.73
Jordan ................................                280                .27                 3.0               .03
Lebanon ...............................                295                .28                4.5                .05
Luxembourg          ..............                     350                .33                10.0               .11
Mexico ................................                900                .85               65.0                .71
Netherlands        ...............                   3,000               2.84              275.0               3.01
Nicaragua .............................                258                .24                  .8               .01
Norway ...............................                 750                .71               50.0                .55
Pakistan ...............................             1,250               1.18              100.0               1.09
Panama ...............................                 252                .24                  .2                 t
Paraguay         ..............                        264                .25                1.4                .02
Peru .................................                 425                .40               17.5                .19
Philippines        ..............                      400                .38               15.0                .16
Sweden ...............................               1,250               1.18              100.0               1.09
Syria .................................                315                .30                 6.5               .07
Thailand ..............................                375                .36               12.5                .14
Turkey ................................                680                .64               43.0                .47
Union of South Africa       .       .........        1,250               1.18              100.0               1.09
United Kingdom         .         ...........        13,250              12.56             1,300.0             14.21
United States       ..............                  32,000              30.34            3,175.0              34.71
Uruguay ...............................                355                .34                10.5               .12
Venezuela          ..............                      355                .34               10.5                .12
Yugoslavia         ...............                     650                .62               40.0                .44
Total ......     105,485             100.00             9,148.5             100.00
* Czechoslovakia was suspended from membership in the Bank, effective at the close of business on December 31, 1953.
t Less than .005 percent.
{ 67:}



APPENDIX K
Governors and Alternates-June 30, 1954
COUNTRY                            GOVERNOR                           ALTERNATE
AUSTRALIA                          Sir Arthur William Fadden          Roland Wilson
AUSTRIA                            Reinhard Kamitz                    Wilhelm Teufenstein
BELGIUM                            Henri Liebaert                     Maurice Frere
BOLIVIA                            Augusto Cuadros Sanchez            Fernando Pou Mount
BRAZIL                             Oswaldo Aranha                     Jose Soares Maciel Filho
BURMA                              U Tin                              U San Lin
CANADA                             D. C. Abbott                       A. F. W. Plumptre
CEYLON                             Sir Oliver Goonetilleke            R. S. S. Gunewardene
CHILE                              Arturo Maschke                     Felipe Herrera
CHINA                              Chia Kan Yen                       Peh-Yuan Ksu
COLOMBIA                           Martin del Corral                  Arturo Bonnet
COSTA RICA                         Angel Coronas                      Mario Fernandez
CUBA                               Luis Machado                       Joaquin E. Meyer
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                     Rudolf Houdek*                     Bohuslav Kepka*
DENMARK                            Svend Nielsen                      Hakon Jespersen
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                 S. Salvador Ortiz                  Pedro Pablo Cabral B.
ECUADOR                            Luis Ernesto Borja                 Ramon de Ycaza
EGYPT                              Mohamed Amin Fikry                 A. Nazmy Abdel-Hamid
EL SALVADOR                        Caralino Herrera                   Luis Escalante-Arce
ETHIOPIA                           Ato Menasse Lemma                  Walter H. Rozell Jr.
FINLAND                            Klaus Waris                        Ralf Torngren
FRANCE                             Minister of Finance                Pierre Mendes-France
GERMANY                            Ludwig Erhard                      Fritz Schaeffer
GREECE                             Emmanuel Tsouderos                 George Mantzavinos
GUATEMALA                          Manuel Noriega Morales             Carlos Leonidas Acevedo
HAITI                              Lucien Hibbert                     Christian Aime
HONDURAS                           Rafael Hiliodoro Valle             Guillermo Lopez Rodezno
ICELAND                            Jon Arnason                        Thor Thors
INDIA                              Chintaman D. Deshmukh              H. K. Ambegaokar
INDONESIA                          Ong Eng Die                        Lockman Hakim
IRAN                               Ali Asghar Nasser                  Djalaleddin Aghili
IRAQ                               Abdul Kerim Al-Uzri                Saleh Haidar
ITALY                              Donato Menichella                  Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
JAPAN                              Sankuro Ogasawara                  Hisato Ichimada
JORDAN                             Saad Nimry                         El-Sharif Mohammad Sharaf
LEBANON                            Andre Tueni                        Raja Himadeh
LUXEMBOURG                         Pierre Werner                      (Appointment pending)
MEXICO                             Antonio Carrillo Flores            Jose Hernandez Delgado
NETHERLANDS                        J. van de Kieft                    A. M. de Jong
NICARAGUA                          Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa           (Appoinztment pendi-ng)
NORWAY                             Gunnar Jahn                        Ole Colbjornsen
PAKISTAN                           Mohamad Ali                        Amjad Ali
PANAMA                             Roberto M. Heurtematte             Julio E. Heurtematte
PARAGUAY                           Epifanio Mendez Fleitas            Julio C. Kolberg
PERU                               Fernando Berckemeyer               Carlos Gibson
PHILIPPINES                        Miguel Cuaderno Sr.                Emilio Abello
SWEDEN                             N. G. Lange                        A. Lundgren
SYRIA                              Husni A. Sawwaf                    Rafik Asha
THAILAND                           Serm Vinicchayakul                 Kajit Kasemsri
TURKEY                             Hasan Polatkan                     Munir Mostar
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA              N. C. Havenga                      M. H. de Kock
UNITED KINGDOM                     Richard Austen Butler              Sir Leslie Rowan
UNITED STATES                      George M. Humphrey                 Samuel C. Waugh
URUGUAY                            Nilo Berchesi                      Roberto Ferber
VENEZUELA                          Jose Joaquin Gonzales-Gorrondona, Jr. Hector Esteves Jr.
YUGOSLAVIA                         Vojin Guzina                       Kiro Gligorov
'In office on the effective date of the suspension of Czechoslovakia's membership in the Bank.
{ 68 }



APPENDIX L
Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power
- June 30, 1954
VOTES BY         TOTAL
DIRECTORS            ALTERNATES               CASTING THE VOTES OF           COUNTRY          VOTES
Appointed
Andrew N. Overby        John S. Hooker              United States                  32,000         32,000
Sir Edmund Hall-Patch   M. T. Flett                 United Kingdom                 13,250         13,250
Kan Lee                  (Vacant)                   China                           6,250          6,250
Roger Hoppenot          Maurice Perouse             France                          5,500           5,500
G. R. Kamat             V. G. Pendharkar           India                            4,250          4,250
Elected
Luis Machado            Julio E. Heurtematte        Mexico                           900
(Cuba)                  (Panama)                 Cuba                              600
Peru                             425
Uruguay                          355
Venezuela                        355
Costa Rica                       270
Dominican Republic               270
Guatemala                        270
El Salvador                      260
Honduras                         260 
Nicaragua                        258
Panama                           2521
Johannes Zahn           A. Tasic                    Germany                         3,550)
(Germany)               (Yugoslavia)             Yugoslavia                        650           4,200
Mohammad Shoaib         Ali Akbar Khosropur         Pakistan                        1,250]
(Pakistan)              (Iran)                   Egypt                             783
Iran                             586
Syria                            315409
Iraq                             310           4,099
Lebanon                          295
Ethiopia                         2801
Jordan                           280J
Cabir Selek             Felice Pick                Italy                            2,050 l
(Turkey)                (Italy)                  Austria                           750           3,980
Turkey                           680           398
Greece                           500.
Takeo Yumoto            Ohn Khin                    Japan                           2,750]
(Japan)                 (Burma)                  Burma                             400           3
Ceylon                           400            ,925
Thailand                         375 J
Erling Sveinbjornsson   Veikko Makkonen             Sweden                          1,250]
(Denmark)               (Finland)                Denmark                           9301
Norway                           750           3,820
Finland                          630
Iceland                          260
[691



APPENDIX L
Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power
-June 30, 1954-Continued
VOTES BY         TOTAL
DIRECTORS             ALTERNATES                CASTING THE VOTES Of             COUNTRY          VOTES
Elected (Coninvued)
Alfonso Fernandez        Jorge Schneider              Brazil                           1,300]
(Chile)                  (Chile)                    Chile                             600 1
Colombia                          600
Philippines                       400            3,766
Bolivia                           320
Ecuador                           282
Paraguay                          264
L. H. E. Bury            B. B. Callaghan              Australia                        2,2503
(Australia)              (Australia)               Union of South Africa             1,250           3,500
Louis Rasminsky          J. H. Warren                 Canada                           3,500            3,500
(Canada)                 (Canada)
D. Crena de Iongh        L. R. W. Soutendijk          Netherlands                      3,000            3,000
(Netherlands)            (Netherlands)
Thomas Basyn             Jean C. Godeaux              Belgium                          2,5002
(Belgium)                (Belgium)                  Luxembourg                        350            2,850
Note: Member countries unrepresented by Executive Directors: Czechoslovakia with 1,500 votes; Indonesia
with 1,350 votes; Haiti with 270 votes.
In addition to the Executive Directors and Alternates shown in the foregoing list, the following have also served as
Executive Director or Alternate since June 30, 1953:
EXECUTIVE   DIRECTORS                             End of Period of Service
Y. L. Chang (China)                                August 26, 1953
B. K. Nehru (India)                                January 14, 1954
L. G. Melville (Australia)                         October 31, 1953
ALTERNATE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
L. Waight (United Kingdom)                         October 15, 1953
B. R. Shenoy (India)                               November 30, 1953
Ali Asghar Nasser (Irani)                          September 2, 1953
Abdullah Daftari (Iran)                            October 31, 1953 (deceased)
Boonma Wongswan (Thailand)                         October 31, 1953
Reino Rossi (Finland)                              October 31, 1953
Unto Varjonen (Finland)                            February 11, 1954 (deceased)
H-. A. Fuller (Australia)                          February 16, 1954
G. Neil Perry (Canada)                             April 30, 1954
1 701



APPENDIX M
Principal Officers of the Bank
-June 30, 1954
Eugene R. Black ..............                                           President
Robert L. Garner ............... Vice President
William A. B. Iliff ..............                           Assistant to President
Henry W. Riley ...............                                           Treasurer
M. M. Mendels .................. Secretary
Davidson Sommers .....             ......... General Counsel
A. S. G. Hoar .......... Director of Operations -  Europe, Africa and Australasia
J. Burke Knapp .............. Director of Operations -  Western Hemisphere
Francois-Didier Gregh ........... Director of Operations -  Asia and Middle East
Milton C. Cross ..............                   Director of Technical Operationr
George L. Martin ..............                             Director of Marketing
Leonard B. Rist ..............                            Director, Economic Staff
Richard H. Demuth ............. Director, Technical Assistance and Liaison Staff
William  F. Howell ..............                      Director of Administration
Harold N. Graves, Jr ..............                   Director of Public Relations
(711









I



