INTERNATIONAL
('tEcoP'7!BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
FIFTH ANNUAIJ IR1I'PORT-
I194 9-I95()






FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
1 949-1 950
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
WASHINGTON, D. C.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
September 6, 1950
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have been authorized by
the Executive Directors to submit to the Board of Governors this Fifth
Annual Report of the Bank. The report includes financial statements
as of June 30, 1950, based on an audit of the accounts of the Bank
made pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws. It also incorporates,
pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws, an administrative budget for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1951.
While the financial statements cover the fiscal year ended June
30, 1950, the remainder of the report reflects the activities of the Bank
for the period from August 20, 1949 to August 1, 1950.
Sincerely yours,
EUGENE R. BLACK,
President.
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
INTRODUCrION  .            ..........................................................    S
THE MAJOR  OPERATIONAL  POLICIES OF THE BANK  ........................   7
The Character of Bank Lending ...............................................   7
The Specific Project Provision .............................................    7
Determination of Projects to be Financed  ..................................   8
Loans for Local Currency Expenditures ....................................   10
The Character of Bank Investigations ...........................................  11
Loan Charges . .............................................................   13
Currency Problems .........................................................  14
Loans to Private Enterprise ..................  15
Continuing Relationship With Borrowers .......................................   16
Technical Assistance ........................................   17
The Bank's Lending Standards . ..........................................   1
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES ...................                       .......................   19
Latin America ........................................   20
Asia, Africa and the Middle East ..........................................    27
Europe  ........................................   32
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND RESOURCES ........................................    38
Results of Operations and Disbursement of Loans .............            .................  3s
Funds Available for Lending ........................   ....  39
Issue and Sale of Securities ........................   40
Market for the Bank's Obligations ........................ I .                               40
MISCELLANEOUS ....................... 41
Management and Organization ........................   41
Relations with Other International Organizations ............             ............  42
Advisory Council .......................  43
Training Program ........................  43
Membership, Subscriptions and Voting Power  ........                ...............   43
Duties and Remuneration of Executive Directors  ............              ............  43
Financial Statements and Reports ........................   43
Administrative Budget .......................   43
Additional Reports to Board of Governors    ............                ............   43
Appendices
A.  Balance Sheet-June 30, 1950 ........................                             46-47
B. Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the Fiscal Years
Ended June 30, 1949 and June 30, 1950 .48
C.  Statement of Loans-June 30, 1950 .................................. 50-51
D.  Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1950 ......           ............  52
E.  Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-lJne 30, 1950.. 54-55
F.  Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1950 .......................... 56-57
G.  Opinion of Independent Auditor ......................................  58
H.  Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1951 ....         ........  59
I.  Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of August 1, 1950   ....  60
J.  Governors and Alternates as of August 1, 1950 ...........................  61
K. Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power as of
August 1, 1950 ..                                                                62-63
L   Principal Officers of the Bank as of August 1, 1950 .......................   64



INTRODUCTION
During the past fiscal year, the Bank granted 12 loans aggregating $166.3 million, compared
with ten loans, aggregating $137.1 million during the previous fiscal year. Since June 30, 1950 two
additional loans have been made, aggregating $16.4 million. This brings the total of loans granted
to date to $832.8 million, of which $614.1 million had been disbursed up to the close of the fiscal
year. As the Report indicates, the Bank is engaged in discussions with many of its member countries
concerning possible future financing of additional projects.
The year under review witnessed a marked increase in the Bank's technical assistance activities.
The report of the comprehensive survey mission to Colombia, the first such mission undertaken by
the Bank, has been submitted to the Colombian Government and is now under consideration. In the
spring and summer of 1950, similar missions were sent to Turkey, Guatemala and Cuba at the request
of the governments of those countries. Other comparable missions are at various stages of planning
or discussion. It is the Bank's hope that its activities in the two complementary fields of financial
and technical assistance will reinforce each other to the mutual advantage of the Bank and its member
countries.
Since the Bank's total financial resources have been more than adequate for the loans made during
the past year or envisaged for the immediate future, rno recourse has been had to the United States
market for additional funds. In January 1950 a $100 million issue of 10-year serial bonds was sold,
but this was a refunding operation through which a previous issue of bonds of the same amount
was retired. The terms on which the Bank was able to sell the new issue represented a considerable
annual interest saving.
There have been significant additions to the Bank's loanable resources during the past year from
sources outside the United States. A number of member countries have recently agreed in principle
to the use for lending purposes of all or part of their 18%o subscriptions to the Bank's capital. In
addition, the Bank sold in Switzerland, in March 1950, a second issue of Swiss franc bonds in the
amount of 28,500,000 francs. The market for the Bank's dollar bonds has also been broadened
as a result of arrangements whereby the bonds have been made eligible investments for certain insti-
tutions in various countries other than the United States or have been permnitted to be traded on local
stock exchanges. These arrangements have already resulted in substantial purchases of the Bank's
bonds by investors outside the United States.
Since this is the Bank's Fifth Annual Report, it has been considered appropriate to include in the
Report not only an account of the activities of the Bank during the past year but also a review of
its major operational policies. The Bank is by most standards a young institution, but its experience
in international investment has now been sufficient to permit the statement of certain general con-
clusions about the problems that it faces and the policies it has adopted to meet them. These policies
cannot in the nature of things be regarded as fixed but are constantly subject to evolution in the
light of experience.
E 5l



I



THE MAJOR OPERATIONAL POLICIES OF THE BANK
With the publication of this Fifth Annual Re-   long-range function. Nonetheless, a review of
port, the Bank is able to look back upon a period    the Bank's major operational policies, as they
of active operation, the chief characteristics of    have developed to date, appears useful, both to
which have been the great stress and rapid    provide a basis for informed discussion of the
change in economic and political conditions    Bank's appropriate role and to reduce as far as
throughout the world. In many ways it has been    possible the chances of misunderstanding or mis-
a difficult period for the Bank, conceived as it   interpretation.
was in the expectation of quite different circum-  For purposes of this Report, the aspects of the
stances. The Bank has necessarily had to keep    Bank's work relating to the increase of its loan-
its policies flexible, in order that it might meet    able resources are treated separately from its other
the needs of the present without prejudicing its    operational activities.
THE CHARACTER OF BANK LENDING
The basic character of Bank lending is, of   it imposes is that, before a loan is granted, there
course, governed by the Artides of Agreement,   shall be a clear agreement both as to the types of
particularly the provisions requiring that, except    goods and services for which the proceeds of the
in special circumstances, Bank loans be for spe-   loan are to be expended and of the uses to which
cific projects of reconstruction or development;   those goods and -services are to be put. Without
that the projects initially selected for financing be    such specification it would be impossible for the
those most useful and urgent for increasing the    Bank to judge whether or to what extent a loan
productive resources of members; and that, again    would be effective in raising the level of produc-
except in exceptional circumstances, Bank financ-    tion.
ing be designed to meet foreign exchange rather   There has been considerable criticism of the
than local currency expenditures. These provi-   specific project approach, but the criticism has
sions, however, are necessarily general in char-    almost always been based on the assumption that
acter; they have posed practical operating prob-    the Bank examines the merits of particular proj-
lems as they have been applied to specific    ects in isolation, without reference to their rela-
situations. Each of them, therefore, merits exam-    tion to the over-all development needs of the
ination.                                        borrowing country. In fact the Bank does pre-
cisely the opposite. As is more fully explained
The Specific Project Provision                  below, the Bank seeks in the case of each borrow-
ing country to determine what are the appropriate
Underlying many of the Bank's lending pol-   investment priorities and then to adapt its pro-
icies is the provision of the Artides of Agreement    gram of financial assistance to meet the priority
requiring that "loans made or guaranteed by the    needs. Consistently with this approach the Bank
Bank shall, except in special circumstances, be for    has encouraged its members to formulate long-
the purpose of specific projects of reconstruction    term development programs and is providing sev-
or development."                                eral of them with substantial technical assistance
The objective of this provision is simply to as-   for this purpose. The existence of such a program
sure that Bank loans will be used for productive    greatly facilitates the task of determining which
purposes. In effect, the only requirement which    projects are of the highest priority in the light of
[71



their prospective contribution to the program as   because it was so urgent to assist ini meeting the
a whole.                                           needs in order to prevent a disastrous decline irn
Once a determination has been made as to the     production and because the Bank had satisfied
most urgent needs of any member country, the    itself that the goods financed by the loans were
only safeguard by which the Bank can assure that    to be used for essential and productive purposes,
its resources are in fact used to meet those needs    the Bank was willing to make the necessary financ
is to require, before granting a loan, that an agree-    ing available without detailed examination of the
ment be reached with the borrower on the precise    specific projects in connection with which the goods
purposes of the loan. This is essentially all that    were to be employed. As these loans indicate, the
the specific project provision implies. If the Bank  specific project provision is not interpreted as com--
were to make loans for unspecified purposes or    mitting the Bank to a single inflexible lending
for vague development programs which have not    technique to be applied without regard to the
been worked out in terms of the specific projects    actual needs of a given situation. It is rather a
by which the objectives of the program are to be    lending policy which, in the opinion of the Bank,
achieved, there would be danger that the Bank's   is desirable in the vast majority of cases to assure
resources would be used either for projects which    that member countries use their limited capacity
are economically or technically unsound or are of    for foreign indebtedness to the best advantage.
a low priority nature, or for economically unjus-     Ihe proposal has sometimes been advanceet
tified consumer goods imports.                     that the Bank should make loans for 'general
This danger is by no means hypothetical. Few     development purposes."  It is difficult to discas!
projects have thus far been presented to the Bank  the merits of this proposal without a more precise
in wholly satisfactory form. In many cases there   definition of "general develo;mer , u  i   "
have been inadequate or incorrect cost estimates;    all that is meant is that the Bank should not con-
there have also frequently been deficiencies in the    fine its assistance to individual projects but shouldc
technical plans or proposed financial or adminis-    rather seek to finance groups of inter-related proj-
trative arrangements. During the course of discus-    ects, the proposal merely reflects existing Bank
sions between the Bank and the borrower, it has    policy. Indeed, as has already been indicated, the
often been possible to work out modifications of   Bank would prefer to go further, wherever that is
a project to reduce its cost, to increase its technical    feasible, and base its financing on a national devel-
efficiency or to improve its financial or organiza-    opment program, provided that it is properly
tional features. Occasionally a substitute project    worked out in terms of the projects by which the
has been found to be more useful or mnore eco-    objectives of the program are to be attained. But
nomic than the one originally proposed. The Bankc    the proposal has a different aspect if it is intended
is convinced that this work has been of real value    to urge that loans should be made for programs
to its borrowers.                                  consisting only of general aspirations. In the ex-
There are special cases, of course, where de-    perience of the Bank, such programs provide no
. '          ~~~adequate basis for judging whether financial in-
tatled project investigations are neither necessary  adqaebssfrjdig  hte iaiil11
tailedoproject feasinvhesgati  areoneitheruc necessa t vestment will in fact be translated effectively into
nor feasible. The early reconstruction loans to    tecnrt  usac  fdvlpet
France, Denmark and the Netherlands, for ex-    the concrete substance of development.
ample, were designed to meet emergency needs       Determination of Projects to be Financed
of those countries for foreign funds to finance a
large variety of imports essential to the continued   The available resources of every country, in-
running of their industries. Because those needs   cluding its capacity to borrow abroad, are limited.
affected so many different sectors of the economy,    To the extent that those resources are devored to
[ 8 ]



particular investment projects, other projects may    tion, workers' housing and similar projects will
have to be abandoned or delayed. To be of maxi-    be required before other investments in more im-
mum  effectiveness, therefore, Bank investment    mediately profitable activities can be undertaken.
must be devoted to those undertakings which will    The indirect benefits properly attributable to these
contribute most to strengthening the economy of    basic investments may be very great even though
the borrowing country.                             the direct earnings of the activities, at least in
In practice, the Bank seeks to accomplish this    the short run, are not high or may even be non-
objective by investigating the over-all economic    existent. For example, a highway system, unless
position of the borrowing country, with particular    it involves toll roads, will yield no direct revenue
reference to its investment expenditures and the   but it may foster all kinds of industrial and
relation of individual projects to the country's    agricultural activity. Similarly, irrigatinri or land
actual development needs. This investigation may    reclamation projects may often be among the most
reveal, first, that some projects which have not    useful and most urgent investments to be under-
been submitted to the Bank nevertheless merit    taken, even though, if their cost is paid out of
a high priority; and, second, that a number of    general tax revenue rather than from water charges
those submitted to the Bank, while worthy of con-    or other direct assessments, they provide no direct
sideration, are of relatively low  priority.  The  return.
Bank expresses its views accordingly in its discus-  The Bank recognizes, of course, that, by financ-
sions with the authorities of the country concerned,    ing one particular investment project, it may be
emphasizing its preference for financing the proj-    releasing  resources  already  available  to  the
ects that seem most urgently required and advis-    borrower for some other investment activity. This
ing postponement of those that appear less imme-    is a principal reason why the Bank seeks to con-
diately important to the country's development.    suit with its member countries not only concern-
The Bank has found that there is no single    ing the merits of projects for which a loan is
test by which the relative urgency and productivity    requested but concerning the country's projected
of various alternative projects can be judged. The  investment expenditures as a whole.  The fact
situation in each country must be considered on its    that the ultimate effect of its loans may be to
own merits. In every case, however, the Bank's    release resources for other uses is not, however,
general approach to the problem is the same: it    regarded by the Bank as in any way relieving it
seeks first to determine what are or should be the  from the obligation of satisfying itself that the
important goals of a proper investment program     particular projects it finances are economically
and then to gauge the relative productivity of the  and technically sound and are of a high priority
various projects by the extent of their contribution  nature. As has already been noted, the Bank's
to those goals.                                    project investigations have frequently resulted in
Where the project under consideration is one    more effective utilization of the resources both of
which is intended to be self-liquidating in terms  the Bank and of its borrowers. Furthermore, it
of local currency, the Bank will of course wish    may reasonably be hoped that, as the under-
to satisfy itself, before granting a loan, that the  developed countries become more generally famil-
enterprise is soundly conceived to achieve that    iar with the Bank's method of investigating proj-
objective. But the relative profitability of different    ects and with the criteria it applies to their
projects will rarely be a proper test of their relative  suitability for finance, they may tend gradually to
contribution to a country's development. In many   apply the same standards to the investment proj-
cases, certain basic investments in public utilities,    ects which they finance from their own resources.
transportation and ports, reclamation and irriga-    This -may well prove in the long run to be a most
[9 ]



valuable by-product of the Bank's lending tech-    and that, where financing foreign exchange re-
nique.                                            quirements indirectly resulting from local currency
expenditure mnight in effect encourage the post-
Loans for Local Currency Expenditures             ponement of such measures, the financing should
The Articles of Agreement make a distinction    not be undertaken. Thus, where it is reasonably
between two types of foreign exchange expenditure    possible for a country to defray the local currency
which may be incurred in the execution of an in-    part of its investment program from its own re-
vestment project: one, the direct cost of imported    sources without inflationary effects, the Bank be-
equipment or services used on the project; the    lieves that it should do so; indeed, the Bank is
other, the indirect foreign exchange expenditure    prepared to aid its member countries in the organ-
resulting from the fact that local expenditure on    ization of their capital markets and their financial
labor or domestically produced equipment will   institutions to this end. The Government of El
usually give rise to an increased demand for im-    Salvador, for example, was recently given assist-
ported consumer goods or raw materials.  The    ance by the Bank in the flotation of bonds by the
Articles contemplate that the Bank should nor-    Rio Lempa Commission to finance the local cur-
mally make loans to meet the first type of foreign    rency expenditure of a hydroelectric project for
expenditure, but they permit loans for the latter    which the Bank haa granted a loan to cover the
type "in exceptional circumstances."  This second    foreign expenditure.
type of loan is often referred to as a loan to meet  The Bank recognizes that a country may be in
local currency  expenditures although, strictly   a position where its domestic savings are reason-
speaking, it is a loan in foreign exchange needed  ably fully employed in productive investment and
because of foreign exchange requirements indi-    where the most advantageous kind of additional
rectly resulting from  expenditures in local cur-    investment for it to make would be in such projects
rency.                                            as roads, irrigation or housirig which call princi-
The restriction on loans for local expenditures    pally for expenditure in domestic currency. If this
has been the subject of much discussion.  It is    investment is likely to lead in a few years to a
argued that, to the extent that local expenditure    correspondingly higher level of domestic savings,
on investment projects gives rise to additional    the provision of foreign exchange to finance the
demand for imports of consumer goods or raw       indirect foreign exchange requirements would
materials, there can be no logical reason for mak-    serve to tide the country over the period of ex-
ing this expenditure less eligible for loans than the    pansion without inflation. Provided that the ex-
direct foreign expenditure required for the import    pansion of investment activity is in line with the
of capital equipment. This argument undoubt-    natural growth of the country and does not cause
edly has considerable validity in principle, but in    undue strain in particular sectors of its economy,
practical application it requires qualification.  a loan for this purpose would generally be justifi-
The statement has often been made-and the       able.
Bank's experience confirms it-that one of the       The Bank, in other words, regards the local
most essential tasks facing the less developed    currency provision not as an encumbrance but as
countries is to take more effective measures to   a useful warning. It is a signal of the need for in-
channel their limited domestic savings into the    quiry and justification whenever an application
most productive investment projects. The Bank    is made for a local currency loan, but there is
accordingly feels that a major objective of its    nothing in the provision to prevent such an appli-
efforts should be to persuade and help its member    cation being approved if the circumstances war-
countries to carry out these necessary measures,    rant- it. It should be noted, however, that it is
[ 10 1



the general policy of the Bank not to finance the    urgency that the country's ability to undertake
whole cost of any undertaking, because it believes    foreign borrowing-which is more or less limited
that its borrowers' best interests are served if they    in all cases-is better utilized in financing this
have a tangible financial stake in the preparation    project than in financing the direct foreign ex-
and execution of their investment projects.     change costs of alternative projects; (b) if the local
The Bank is already discussing with certain    currency costs of the project cannot reasonably be
of its member countries projects which may be    met out of available domestic resources; and (c)
suitable for the financing of local expenditures.   if it is apparent that, unless foreign exchange is
An example is the Italian Government's program  made available to the borrowing country to be
for the development of Southern Italy. This pro-    employed for the import of either consumer goods
gram would probably be beyond the capacity of    or raw materials, the local currency expenditures
Italy to finance entirely out of its own resources.   involved in the project will lead to inflationary
The Government hopes that, if it can secure Bank    pressures.
financing for a relatively small part of the total  It should be noted that the term "local cur-
investment cost, it can carry through the program  rency loan" is sometimes used to mean a loan
without inflationary effects. Since most of the    pursuant to which the currency of the borrower is
capital equipment can and should be provided    provided to cover the local expenses of a project,
from domestic sources, the only way in which the    regardless of their effect upon foreign exchange
Bank could effectively aid in the execution of the    requirements. The Bank's Articles of Agreement
program would be by financing the indirect as    permit this type of loan in exceptional circum-
well as the direct foreign exchange requirements.    stances when the local currency cannot be raised
In general, the Bank's policy may be sum-    by the borrower on reasonable terms. However,
marized by saying that local expenditures may be    the Bank has not yet been presented with a case
financed if the following conditions are satisfied:    where financing of this nature would be appropri-
(a) if the project to be financed is of such economic    ate.
THIE CHARACTER OF BANK INVESTIGATIONS
The procedures followed by the Bank in in-    borrowers before any formal loan request is filed.
vestigating the merits of loan requests necessarily    These discussions enable the Bank to determine
vary considerably from case to case. The char-    whether the projects to be financed are, in principle,
acter of the investigation depends upon many    of a type which the Bank can consider and, if so,
different factors, including the extent to which the    to indicate to the prospective borrower what kinds
Bank has become familiar with economic condi-    of information the Bank will wish to have con-
tions in the country concerned through earlier    cerning the project and the economic conditions
operations, the type of project for which financ-   in the borrowing country.  If the prospective
ing is sought, and the care with which plans for    borrower is not a memnber government, the Bank
the project have already been worked out by the    requires, before starting any serious investigation,
prospective borrower. Nevertheless, while the    that an appropriate indication be given by the
exact procedure will never be the same in any two    government that it will guarantee a loan for the
cases, a general pattern of handling loan requests    project.
has been developed, which it may be of value to   The actual process of investigation usually
summarize briefly.                              falls into two general stages, although in some
Wherever possible, the Bank prefers to hold    cases both may proceed more or less concurrently.
informal exploratory discussions with prospective    The first stage is a general examination of the
[ it I



economy of the borrowing country with a view to    orities, the Bank usually attempts to indicate at
determining (a) the approximate amount of addi-    this stage which of the projects it believes should
tional external debt the country can afford to     be given precedence.
service and the rate at which it can effectively     Once a decision is reached in principle as to
absorb such debt, (b) the general order of priority    the appropriate size and purposes of a loan, the
of the projects under consideration from  the      Bank proceeds, in the second phase of its investi-
standpoint of their contribution to the country's    gation, with a detailed examination of the partic-
development, and (c) the appropriateness of the    ular project or projects selected for financing. If
government's economic and financial policies to    important technical problems are involved, staff
further the development process. Where the pro-    engineers or outside engineering consultants are
posed project is in a country to which the Bank    called upon to make a thorough technical examina-
has not previously made a loan, this first stage    tion of the plans for the enterprise. If a market-
frequently requires intensive study of the country's   ing problem is involved, it may be necessary to
agricultural, industrial and mineral resources, of    check the market survey made by the borrower or,
its manpower, transport and power situation, of    if no such survey has been made, to assist the
the state of its external trade and balance of pay-    borrower in making one.  Similarly, it often
ments, and of the condition of its internal finances,    proves necessary to examine in detail the financial
particularly  its budget and currency position.    and administrative arrangements proposed by the
Where, however, such an investigation has already  borrower to carry out a particular project. Much
been made by the Bank, the inquiry will normally   of this work can be done on the basis of informa-
be confined to developments occurring since the    tion submitted by the borrower, but at least part
earlier examination.                               of the technical investigation must usually be
In conducting this general type of inquiry, the  conducted in the field.
Bank initially studies at its home office all avail-  If the second phase of the investigation results
able information about the country in question     in a favorable report on the project or projects,
and, where necessary, requests the government    either as originally submitted or as modified in
to supplement this information by the latest offi-    consultation with the Bank's technicians, the Bank
cial data. In almost every case, the Bank then     advises the borrower that it is ready to enter into
dispatches a mission of staff members to the coun-    formal negotiations for a loan.  As the Bank's
try to familiarize themselves with conditions on   members have gained greater familiarity with the
the spot. Frequently outside consultants in partic-    provisions of the Bank's loan and guarantee agree-
ular fields known to be of major importance to     ments, it has often been possible to complete the
the country, such as irrigation or transportation,    formal negotiations quite quickly.
are also attached to the mission.                     These lending procedures are subject to an
On the basis of the mission's report, the Bank   important qualification.  It happens not infre-
can usually form at least a provisional judgment    quently that the Bank's examination of general
as to the amount of additional foreign debt the    economic conditions in the borrowing country
country can safely assume and effectively use and,    reveals the existence of economic or financial
if only one or two projects have been presented    practices or policies which so adversely affect the
for financing, whether those projects have prop-    financial and monetary stability of the country
erly been assigned a position of priority. In the  that, if continued, they would endanger both the
many instances where member governments have       productive purposes and the repayment prospects
submitted a list of projects to the Bank and re-    of any Bank loan. In such cases, it is the policy
quested assistance in the establishment of pri-    of the Bank to require, as a condition precedent
[ 12 ]



to Bank financing, that the borrowing country in-    of a still unsettled default on their outstanding
stitute measures designed to restore stability to its    foreign obligations. The Bank is obligated, under
economy. The Bank does not, of course, insist    its Articles of Agreement, to encourage interna-
that all remedial measures which may appear    tional investment for the development of the
necessary in the case of any given country be com-    productive resources of its members.  It has,
pleted before that country may qualify for a loan.    therefore, a direct interest in the creation and
On the other hand, the Bank is not normally will-    maintenance of satisfactory relations between its
ing to rely simply on a representation by the gov-    member countries and their external creditors.
ernment that such remedial measures will in due    The mere existence of a default will not deter the
course be taken. The Bank's position is midway    Bank from granting a loan if the Bank is con-
between these extremes; it requires concrete evi-    vinced that there are no reasonable grounds for
dence that the government is actually taking ap-    regarding the debtor's attitude as unsatisfactory.
propriate steps to establish stability, but, once    On the other hand, the Bank does consider it im-
given such evidence, it is usually willing to make  portant that the countries concerned should give
a loan concurrently with the execution of the   dclear evidence of their willingness to reach a fair
measulo sandconurren                              and equitable settlement of their debts. In the
absence of such evidence, the granting of a Bank
A similar qualification applies in the case of    loan might properly be regarded as, in the long
those few remaining member countries of the    run, hindering rather than promoting the flow of
Bank whose credit is impaired by the existence    international capital.
LOAN CHARGES
In establishing its system of loan charges, the  allocated to a special reserve for the purpose of
Bank holds to the well-established principle of a    meeting the liabilities of the Bank on its borrow-
cooperative institution that it must consider equally    ings and guarantees. The Articles of Agreement
the interests of all its members. The Bank there-    require that, during the first 10 years of its opera-
fore lends at the lowest rates that it considers con-    tion, the Bank impose such a commission of not
sistent with reasonable prudence to safeguard those    less than 1%c and not more than 11½2%o per an-
who supply its funds and those who guarantee      num on all guarantees of loans and on all loans
their repayment. It is also the Bank's policy to  made out of borrowed funds. The current policy
make no distinction among its members in deter-   is to charge a uniform commission of 17o per an-
mining the charges on loans.                      num  on the outstanding amounts of all loans,
The two principal charges are interest and com-    regardless of the source of funds.
mission. The main element in the interest rate      The Bank has made efforts to effect a progres-
is the cost at which the Bank can borrow in the    sive reduction of its charges. The first public
market for a comparable period. The Bank's in-    issues of the Bank's bonds, totalling $250 million,
terest rate is calculated to exceed this cost by a    were floated some time before the funds so raised
small margin sufficient, together with the income    were actually required. Although by so doing
from its capital, to cover the Bank's operating ex-    the Bank incurred substantial expense, this policy
penses and to yield a modest amount that can be    was fully justified in the event. As investors be-
put to reserve against future contingencies. The  came more familiar with the Bank's operations
Bank is able to keep its interest rate down to    and the character of its obligations, the market
little more than cost because, in addition, it    for these bonds became stronger not only in it-
charges a commission, the proceeds of which are    self but even more significantly in comparison
[ 13 ]



with the bond market in general. Consequently     The combined interest and commission charges
early this year the Bank was able to refund one    on typical long-term  loans made by the Bank
issue at a considerable interest saving.        during 1950 are illustrated by the following ex-
The Bank does not normally charge the full    amples: 33/47a  on a 15-year loan to Iraq; 4%
interest rate on its loans until the proceeds are    on a 20-year loan to India; and 41/47o on a 25-
actually disbursed. Beginning on the effective    year loan to the Companhia Hidro Eletrica do
date of the loan, however, a commitment charge    Sao Francisco of Brazil. These rates compare
is made on the undisbursed portion of the loan    favorably with the current yield on most foreign
calculated to compensate the Bank, at least in    dollar bonds; they are also more favorable than
part, for the cost of holding funds at the bor-   the domestic interest rates prevailing today in
rower's disposal.                               most member countries.
CURRENCY PROBLEMS
The Bank is precluded by its Articles of Agree-    sterling with United States dollars, the borrower's
ment from making "tied" loans-that is, from     obligation would be in United States dollars.
imposing any condition in its loan contracts that  As of June 30, 1950 the Bank had disbursed
the proceeds of the loan must be spent in the    the equivalent of $614.1 million under its loans.
territories of any particular member or members.    of this sum, the equivalent of $17.9 million was
The imnpression has, however, gained some ac-    drawn from  the Bank's resources of currencies
ceptance that, although the Bank may impose no    other than United States dollars, specifically the
contractual conditions which cause its loans to    18%o subscriptions of Canada, Belgium and the
be "tied", its policy and procedures tend in effect    United Kingdom and the proceeds of Bank bond
to have this result. Some explanation of the    issues in Switzerland. The remainder, $596.2 mil-
Bank's methods in this connection may therefore    lion, was drawn from the Bank's United States
be of value.                                    dollar assets. Of this sum  $452.3 million, or
Although for accounting purposes the Bank's   about three quarters, was spent in the United
loans are ordinarily expressed in terms of United    States, In view of the types of goods required by
States dollars, the Bank has the option, under its   the Bank's borrowers and the supply situation of
usual loan agreements, to provide the borrower    such goods during the last few years, and in view
with either dollars or such other currencies as    of the fact that most of the Bank's members have
may be needed to carry out the project. The cur-    confined their loan requests primarily to their
rencies in which the borrower is obligated to make    dollar needs, this proportion should occasion no
repayment to the Bank are determined by the cur-   surprise. On the contrary, the fact that, of the
rencies which the Bank itself must disburse in    United States dollars disbursed, so large a pro-
order to provide the borrower with the currencies    portion as one quarter was spent outside the
it needs. For example, if a borrower should re-    United States is a clear indication that the Bank's
quire a certain amount of sterling and the Bank    loans have not been tied either in form or in sub-
should be able to provide the borrower with that    stance.
amount of sterling either from its own holdings   In the case of most of its borrowers, the Bank
or from the proceeds of the sale of sterling obli-    cannot be indifferent to the currencies in which
gations, the borrower would then incur an obliga-    they incur obligations. When, for example, a bor-
tion to repay that amount in sterling. If, on the    rowing country's total dollar debt is already near
other hand, the Bank should have to purchase the    the prudent limit that it can be expected to bear,
[ 14 ]



the Bank advises it to explore all practical means    sary, convert to other currencies interest and com-
of avoiding an addition to that dollar debt. If    mission payments on loans out of 18% funds. As
the borrowing country might be able to achieve    noted in a subsequent section of this Report, the
its purpose by using its own resources in another    Bank's efforts in this direction have recently met
currency or by incurring a debt in that currency,    with an encouraging degree of success. In view
the Bank encourages and helps the government    of the increasing availability of goods in Western
to canvass these possible alternatives.           Europe at prices competitive with those of com-
In order to meet situations of this kind, the    parable United States products, this matter is
Bank has made efforts to increase its available    becoming progressively more important. Indeed,
lending resources in currencies other than United    so long as conditions of non-convertibility con-
States dollars by obtaining the permission of its    tinue, the extent to which the Bank is enabled to
members for the use for loans of part or all of    utilize its non-dollar capital or the proceeds of
the 18%o portion of their capital subscriptions. In    non-dollar bond issues for lending purposes will
order to facilitate the giving of such consents, the    inevitably have a substantial effect upon the
Bank has decided that it will not, unless neces-    volume of Bank lending.
LOANS TO PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
The Articles of Agreement provide that loans    companies which are already subject to substantial
to borrowers other than member governments    government regulation. Whether the fear is jus-
must be guaranteed by "the member or the cen-    tified or not, however, the significant fact is that
tral bank or some comparable agency of the mem-    it exists.
ber which is acceptable to the Bank". This pro-     The Bank has tried various techniques to over-
vision is a principal reason why a majority of the    come these difficulties, for it is convinced that in
Bank's loans to date have been to governments or    many situations it can make an effective con-
governmental agencies and why loans to private    tribution to the development of its member coun-
enterprises have been infrequent.                tries by financing private undertakings. Despite
Governments are frequently reluctant, for en-    wide divergence of opinion as to the proper scope
tirely understandable political reasons, to guar-    of governmental activities, it is generally agreed
antee loans to private enterprises. If a govern-    that there are broad sectors of any economy where
ment extends its guarantee to a particular private    private enterprise, domestic or foreign, is the most
company, it lays itself open to charges of favor-    suitable and efficient instrument of development.
ing that enterprise over its competitors and, what  One type of solution to the problem is exem-
is often more important, over various public    plified by the Bank's loan to the Netherlands
projects. Such criticism is likely to be made how-    Herstelbank (Reconstruction Bank). The purpose
ever well-advised the government's choice may be.    of this financing was to enable the Herstelbank to
Furthermore, the requirement of a government    extend credits to more than 20 private enterprises
guarantee tends to discourage private enterprises    in a variety of industries to be used for the import
from  seeking Bank financing because they fear    of equipment from hard currency areas. By having
that it may lead to demands for government par-    a government guarantee a loan made to a respon-
ticipation in or control over management. Al-    sible intermediary such as the Herstelbank, it is
though this fear has not been justified by the    possible both to minimize the danger of political
Bank's experience to date, that experience may not    intervention in the affairs of the private enter-
be wholly reliable, since the Bank's loans to pri-    prises which are the ultimate beneficiaries of the
vate enterprises have been mainly to public utility    loan and also to insulate the government from
El,' 



the political difficulties involved in guaranteeing  efforts of the International Bank to contribute to
a loan to any particular private enterprise.       this development.
Similar considerations entered into the Bank's     Although the Bank hopes that useful lessons
decision to assist in the establishment of the     will be learnt from  the progress of the Turkish
new  Turkish Industrial Development Bank, a        Industrial Development Bank and that this expe-
detailed account of which will be found on page    rience may provide some guidance in tackling
33. This institution was developed with the help    similar problems in other underdeveloped coun-
of a consultant employed by the International Bank  tries, it is unlikely that the Turkish model can
in response to a request by the Turkish Govern-    simply be taken as a pattern to be repeated with-
ment and Turkish private interests for assistance in  out modification. The Bank continues to study
the problem  as it is confronted with it in the
tiemuchandeforeign askof investmint  othe dntern-    various member countries. One possibility is the
tlCan  fregnprivate                            acsmnt   h  Itra
tic nd orein pivat inestient TheIntma- acceptance bv the Bank in suitable circumstances
tional Bank has agreed to work out a loan to the     c
DevetopmentBank, with an understan.   of the guarantee of the local central bank or com-
Development Bankc, with an understandingz that o
use of the proceeds of the loan for particular     parable institution; this technique would appear
private projects is to be subject to International  appropriate for small loans to private enterprises
which corlstiti-te onily a rrLnor portion of the total
Bank review. It is expected that the existence of                                   i
expecteu                 i~~~~nvestment which it iS antcipated the Bank will
the Development Bank, which will carry out its        inv the country.  At is        the eactmenty
make it, the coutr. Another is the enactent by
own financial and technical investigations, will not    member countries of legislation enabling officials
only give greater confidence to Turkish investors    or institutions to give the guarantee of the govern-
who wish to establish or expand private industrial    ment for Bank loans not exceeding a certain size,
enterprises but will also greatly facilitate the   individually or in the aggregate.
CONTINUING RELATIONSHIP WITH BORROWERS
It is the Bank's practice to maintain a close re-    Since rio two projects have the same characteris-
lationship with its borrowers throughou t the life    tics, the Bank works out with each borrower
of each loan. There are two main aspects to this    the kind of information best designed to keep the
continuing relationship. First, the Bank checks    Barnk abreast of developments, the minimum
to assure that loan funds are expended onry for    arnount of such information which can serve this
authorized goods or services and arranges to keep  purpose, and an appropriate system for reporting
itself informed of the uses to which Bank-financed    such information regularly. The information re-
goods are devoted. Second, the Bank keeps in    quested by the Bank is no more, and is usually
touch during the entire life of the loan with eco-    much less, than that required by the borrower it-
nonic and financial developments in the bor-    self for the efficient control of its own operations.
rowing country through information submitted       The Bank supplements its study of this data by
by the government, periodic visits to the country    occasional field investigations by members of its
by Bank officials, and consultation and exchange   staff.
of views with the government's representatives.      The objective of this aspect of the Bank's work
Disbursements are, in general, controlled by    is to bring to light at the earliest possible moment
procedures similar to those applied by commercial    those difficulties, both technical and financial,
banks. In addition, the Bank arranges in the case    which frequently arise, particularly in the execu-
of every loan to receive a flow of information     tion of large scale construction programs, and
about the progress of the execution of the project.    which cannot be foreseen at the time a loan is
f 16 J



granted. Early knowledge of the existence or the    those countries, through observation and through
prospect of such difficulties puts the Bank in a    discussions with government officials and other
position to discuss the best solution with the bor-   interested elements of the community.
rower in good time. In this manner, difficulties    One objective is, of course, to ensure that the
which might have hindered the successful accom-    maintenance of service on Bank loans is not jeop-
plishment of a project can often be overcome or    ardized by the emergence of conditions which
averted.                                          might reasonably be prevented.  But the Bank
As has already been noted, in addition to fol-    also has a broader objective in view. By keeping
lowing the progress of the project, the Bank gives    dosely in touch with the progress of its members,
continuing attention throughout the life of each    the Bank hopes that it may be able to be of some
loan to the general economic and financial condi-    assistance to them in meeting important economic
tions in the borrowing country by studying statis-    problems.  The member countries, in turn, are
tical and other information obtained both from the    able to discuss their plans for investment well in
borrower and from other sources. In addition the    advance and to obtain an early indication of the
Bank from time to time sends staff missions to    Bank's opinion. On both sides this tends to facili-
visit member countries in order that they may fa-    tate subsequent financing from the Bank or, in the
miliarize themselves with the course of events in    long run, from any other source.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
In the normal course of its loan operations, the  advice or the adviser requested from  its own
Bank renders a wide variety of technical assistance    staff; in most cases, however, the Bank has em-
to its member countries. This may take the form   ployed or recommended that the government con-
of suggesting technical modifications to projects    cerned should employ outside consultants.  In
submitted for financing, of advising on marketing  order to comply with these requests efficiently, the
or managerial problems, or of assisting with the    Bank is steadily building up a roster of experts in
financial aspects of the undertaking, including the    the various fields in which technical advice is
raising of local capital. In a number of cases,   likely to be required. In this task the Bank has
too, as has already been noted, the Bank has been  been fortunate in enlisting the cooperation of
requested to aid the borrowing country in deter-    many organizations, international, national and
mining which among various projects in its in-    private.
vestment program should initially be selected for   Although advice on particular aspects of a coun-
Bank financing. The provision of all these types    try's investment activities can be of real value, the
of assistance is an integral part of the Bank's lend-    Bank is convinced that many of its less developed
ing function; its essential purpose is to ensure that    member countries need assistance of a broader
the Bank's resources will be used with maximum    nature. As a result of discussions with the Bank,
effectiveness.                                    several countries have asked it to organize a mis-
There have been an increasing number of cases,    sion to make a comprehensive survey of their
however, where member countries have asked the    economies. The precise terms of reference of these
Bank for advice on particular projects or industries    missions vary in each case, but broadly their ob-
without reference to any financial operation. A   jective is to help the country formulate a program
few countries, too, have requested the Bank to    of investment which will indicate priorities among
recommend to them economic or financial experts    the important sectors of the economy and among
to serve as advisers to the government. In some    types of undertakings within each such sector; to
instances, the Bank has been able to provide the    suggest methods and measures, other than invest-
[ 17 1



ment, to improve productive efficiency in existing    is gratifying to be able to make recommendations
enterprises; and to recommend improvements in     which have a ready chance of adoption, the scope
the government's economic and financial policies    of a useful and conscientious mission can hardly
and organization in order to facilitate and encour-    be so confined; in almost every case, at least some
age further development.  These missions are    of the mission's recommendations are likely to be
staffed primarily with consultants recruited from  unpalatable to certain groups. They may call for
outside the Bank on an international basis, al-    changes in taxation, for far-reaching land re-
though in each case one or more members of the    forms, or for the postponement of projects likely
Bank's staff are attached to the mission.         to benefit some particular district. For this reason
The expenses of these missions are shared by    it is a prerequisite to the success of a comprehen-
the Bank and the country concerned. It is clearly    sive advisory mission that the country concerned
desirable that the government requesting tech-    should sincerely desire its advice and arrange for
nical help should assume a substantial part of    serious, non-partisan consideration of the recom-
the cost, both in fairness to the other share-    mendations made.
holders of the Bank and as an earnest of the gov-   The Bank believes it appropriate that it should
ernment's desire to use the assistance effectively.    provide this type of assistance to its member coun-
As a general rule the Bank has undertaken to pay    tries. As a cooperative international institution
the salaries of its own staff assigned to these mis-    it maintains a continuing and close association
sions, while the salaries of specially employed con-    with its members. This promotes mutual under-
sultants are paid half by the Bank and half by the    standing and frees the Bank from the suspicion of
recipient country. All travel, subsistence and    being influenced by political or commercial mo-
other costs, incurred within the country, are paid    tives. In addition, membeL countries are aware
by the government, and similar expenses outside    that, by the very nature of its activities, the Bank
the country are borne by the Bank.                is unlikely to make or to sponsor recommenda-
It is too early to draw  any definite con-    tions that are unrealistic or beyond their capabili-
clusions as to this aspect of the Bank's work. The    ties. They know, too, that if they formulate a well-
first mission, to Colombia, visited that country    balanced development program based on the mis-
from July to November 1949; its report and rec-    sion's recommendations, the Bank will stand ready
ommendations have only recently been completed    to help them carry out tne program by financing
and submitted to the Bank and to the Colombian    appropriate projects.
Government. The three subsequent missions sent      In executing this task the Bank has the ad-
by the Bank to Turkey, Guatemala and Cuba are    vantage of being able to provide continuity. The
still~~~~ innag thos countreies.ole onlnlt    h
still in those countries.                         mission goes to a country, spends several months
Even at this early stage of the Bank's experience,    there, prepares a report, and then disperses. But
however, it is clear that the need for technical    even before the mission leaves, the Bank is able
assistance of this type is very real and that the ful-    to prepare basic information on the country for
filment of that need up to the point of implemen-    the mission's benefit and to impart to it the gist
tation of the advice given is far from a simple task.    of its previous experience. After the mission re-
As the experience of the Colombian mission    turns, the Bank is in a position to follow up its
showed, there will normally be a number of    recommendations by giving advice to the member
changes of a comparatively simple and non-con-    country on such subsequent steps as are recom-
troversial nature which can be recommended and    mended and, since there will normally be several
which, if carried out, would add greatly to the    members of the Bank's staff on each such mission,
well-being of the country at little cost. 'While it    retains the experience of the mission in a real and
[ 18 ]



intimate way that it could hardly do from the mere    basis for current financial relations between the
reading of a report.                              Bank and its member countries. In the long run
These broad activities in the field of technical    their impact is likely to be more profound, since
assistance are not in the first instance oriented by    they should contribute to the formation of a cli-
the Bank's financial operations. Nevertheless, the    mate conducive to productive investment from all
surveys made will certainly form a useful working    sources.
THE BANK'S LENDING STANDARDS
As the foregoing discussion discloses, the Bank    bers is assembled, as well-conceived development
has set high standards for its lending operations.    programs take shape, and as the technique of plan-
That does not mean that its loans are without    ning individual projects becomes more generally
risk; the very essence of the Bank's task is to take    understood, the pace of the Bank's financing will
risks that private investors are unwilling to as-    accelerate and it will be able to grant a consider-
sume. Nor does it mean that the selection of    ably larger annual volume of loans.
projects to be financed is dictated by commercial   The Bank is convinced, however, that an in-
considerations. It means rather that the Bank will    crease in the volume of loans achieved at a sacri-
lend only on the basis of an informed judgment    fice of the productive character of those loans
as to the productivity of the proposed investment.    would be of no real benefit to its members. Noth-
This judgment rests on the answers to two basic   ing can be more harmful to a country's economic
questions: first, whether the purposes for which    future than a faulty assessment of its real oppor-
the loan is granted can be accomplished efficiently    tunities. Nor can anything make the burden of a
by the means selected and with the funds at the    debt so difficult to bear as waste and inefficiency in
borrower's disposal; and second, whether the ac-   the use of borrowed funds. Hasty investment in
complishment of those purposes will make a sig-    inadequately prepared projects will frequently
nificant contribution to the country's economy in    necessitate heavy expenditure to eradicate techni-
relation to the resources invested.               cal difficulties which could with due care have
The gathering of information necessary to form  been foreseen; and, in the end, the cost of the
such a judgment takes time, particularly when, as    projects may be out of all proportion to their
often happens, it involves a series of inquiries.    effect on productive output. It is the Bank's firm
There is no doubt that, in the early years of the    intention, therefore, to continue its efforts to
Bank's operations, this process has tended to re-    choose the right projects for investment and to
tard the pace of the Bank's lending. But there is    help bring those projects to a high pitch of tech-
no reason for this tendency to continue once a    nical proficiency. Only by so doing can the Bank
steady flow of projects proposed for financing has    discharge its responsibility to assure effective use
developed. The Bank hopes and expects that, as    of its resources in raising the standard of living in
more information about the economies of its mem-    its member countries.
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
A list of all the loans made by the Bank up to    aggregating $166,345,000, for projects in Brazil,
the close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1950,    Colombia, El Salvador, Finland, India, Iraq, Mexi-
together with an indication of their general pur-    co, the Netherlands and Yugoslavia. Since the
poses, appears in Appendix C. As this list shows,    close of the fiscal year, the Bank has made two
the Bank made 12 loans during the last fiscal year,    additional loans, aggregating $16,400,000, to the
r 19I



Republic of Turkey for port development and for    of the Bank's operational activities. In the nature
grain storage facilities.                       of things this account cannot be comprehensive; it
is intended rather to provide a general indication
A more detailed description of the loans granted  of the nature of the Bank's activities in its various
since the date of the last Annual Report is in-    member countries and of the economic background
cluded in the following country-by-country account    against which those activities have taken place.
LATIN AMERICA
Mexico                                          of six months. The reorganization plan was ap-
The Fourth Annual Report described the cir-    proved by the security holders in February 1950
cumstances in which the Bank made a loan of $10    and was sanctioned by the Supreme Court of
million to the Comisi6n Federal de Electricdad    Ontario, Canada, on April 12. On April 28, 1950
(Federal Electricity Commission), a Mexican    the Bank made a loan to the Company of $26
million, of which $10 million was used to refund
Government agency charged with the develop-     thprvoshr-emlan Tenwla,
ment of electric power facilities, and to Nacional    wh ich
Financiera, an official financing institution, to en-    which is guaranteed by the Mexican Government
able those bodies to make a loan in correspond-    is for a term of 25 years and carries an interest
ing amount to the Mexican Light and Power    rate of 31/2%, plus the usual ITo commission
Company, Limited. This was a short-term loan    charge.  Amortization payments begin in the
maturing on December 31, 1949; its purpose was    fourth year.
to enable the Company to carry on its expansion   This loan will enable the Company to continue
of electric generating and distribution facilities,    with its share of a long-range program, under-
pending a larger loan to the Company itself which    taken jointly by the Company and the Federal
the Bank considered could be made only after a    Electricity Commission, to increase the supply of
reorganization of the Company's financial struc-    electric power to Mexico City and the surround-
ture and the approval by the Mexican authorities    ing districts.  This area, with a population of
of a new power rate structure affording reasonable    three million, has undergone rapid industrial and
earnings prospects for the recapitalized company.    agricultural development so that the extension of
The framing of a Plan of Arrangement to meet    generating, transmission and distribution facilities
the needs of the Company, with its elaborate capi-   is now urgently necessary. Under the program
tal structure and wide international distribution of    the Company will have added 155,000 kw to its
securities, proved laborious and complex. A fur-    generating capacity by 1953 and the Federal
ther complication arose from the devaluation of    Electricity Commission will have added 170,000
sterling and other currencies, which made it neces-    kw. Distribution of the whole of the additional
sary to revise certain provisions of the Plan affect-    power within the Federal District will be carried
ing the exchange of the existing sterling and    out by the Company.
Canadian dollar securities for new United States  As stated in the Fourth Annual Report, the
dollar securities. Furthermore, the new rate struc-    Federal Electricity Commission received a loan
ture was not approved until December 1949. As    from the Bank of $24.1 million in January 1949
a consequence, the reorganization of the Company    to assist it in carrying out its share of this pro-
and the negotiations for a long-term loan were    gram.  There have been some revisions in the
not completed by the end of the year and the $10    proposed use of this loan, of which the principal
million loan was therefore extended for a period    one, made after consultation with the Bank, was
[ 20 ]



a reduction from $3 million to $500,000 of the    hydroelectric power at Paulo Afonso Falls on the
amount allotted to rural electrification, in order    Sao Francisco River in northeast Brazil. The loan,
to allow for the estimated increased cost of other    which is guaranteed by the Government of Brazil,
projects.                                       is for a term of 25 years and carries an interest
The Mexican Government recently approached    rate of 31/4¼o, plus the normal 1%  commission
the Bank with a proposal for a loan of moderate    charge. Amortization begins on September 15,
size to finance small projects undertaken by private    1954.
enterprises. The Bank has expressed its interest  The total capital cost of the Paulo Afonso
in principle in this proposal and is now awaiting    project is estimated at $56,000,000. The Bank's
submission of detailed plans.                   loan of $15,000,000 will be used to finance almost
The President of the Bank visited Mexico in    all the foreign exchange costs, including the pur-
January 1950 and in March-April the Economic    chase of construction equipment, generating equip-
Director and other representatives of the Bank    ment, transformers and other substation equip-
paid a further visit in order to review develop-    ment, and high tension transmission lines. CHESF,
ments in Mexico's general economic condition.    a semi-autonomous agency controlled by the Gov-
They concluded that there have been substantial    ernment but financed partly with private capital,
improvements in the situation during the past two    will meet the local currency costs out of its own
years. Production has continued to increase both    resources.
in manufacturing industries and in agriculture.   The Paulo Afonso power station, which will
There has been a decline in the production and  have an initial installed capacity of 120,000 kw,
export of non-ferrous metals, due to world market    is situated in an area where lack of power has
conditions, but the adverse effect on the balance of    been a major obstacle to development. It will
payments has been offset by the increase in agricul-   serve the ports of Recife and Salvador through
tural exports. Cotton has now become the largest   two primary transmission lines, each approximate-
single export. Sugar was exported in 1949 to a    ly 400 kilometerse long. Recife, a city of some
total value of $10 million, whereas Mexico was    500,000 people with many small industries, is the
a net importer of sugar before 1948. There was    most important port in northern Brazil and is the
also a considerable increase in the value of ex-    center of the principal sugar-producing area in the
ports of rice.                                  country. Salvador, with a population of 300,000,
The stabilization of the peso in June 1949 and    is the center of the tobacco and cocoa industries.
the maintenance of a policy of a balanced budget    About 40 small towns will be served by secondary
and credit restrictions, have been followed by a    transmission lines. The project will also make
marked improvement in the balance of payments    electric power available for the development of
position and a substantial increase in the mone-    the hinterland of Recife and Salvador and of the
tary reserves of the Banco de Mexico. Within a    area in the vicinity of Paulo Afonso Falls, which
few years annual service payments on Mexico's    are at present almost entirely undeveloped. Pro-
presently outstanding debt will begin to decline    vision has been made for the installation of sub-
rapidly, which should facilitate the future financ-    stantial additional capacity if it should be required.
ing of development projects.                      This is the second Bank loan to Brazil. Pre-
viously, on January 27, 1949, the Bank had made a
Brazil                                          loan of $75,000,000 to the Brazilian Traction,
On May 26, 1950 the Bank made a loan of    Light and Power Company, Ltd., for the ex-
$15,000,000 to the Companhia Hidro Eletrica do    pansion of hydroelectric power facilities in the
Sao Francisco (CHESF) for the development of    Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo areas, and of tele-
[ 21 l



phone facilities over a wider area in the central    coffee, which in 1949 accounted for 577%  of the
part of Brazil. By the fall of 1949 it had be-    value of Brazilian exports. The foreign exchange
come clear that the actual foreign exchange       outlook, for the near term at least, appears favor-
costs of this program would be somewhat lower    able, primarily because of present good prospects
than estimated. As a result of these and other    for coffee exports; in addition, there has been a
savings, the Company and the Bank agreed to       marked increase in the domestic production of
modify the loan agreement by adding a number of    wheat, which was the largest single item among
new items, including the purchase of the floating  Brazil's imports in 1949. On the other hand, as
steam plant "Sea Power," to be used first at Rio    economic activity expands, especially transporta-
and then at Santos, as an additional source of    tion, imports of fuel will press increasingly hard
power pending the completion of the Company's    on the available foreign exchange, unless the large
expansion program.                                petroleum  resources believed to exist in Brazil
In October 1949 the Bank dispatched a mis-    can be developed.  Industrial production con-
sion to Brazil to study the country's capacity to    tinues to increase in many different fields, and the
assume additional external debt, the policies be-    recent adoption by the Brazilian Congress of the
ing followed to promote development and the       SALTE Plan, a comprehensive five-year develop-
priorities of various development projects includ-    ment program, should accelerate the growth of
ing Paulo Afonso. Subsequently, the Bank ad-    both industrial and agricultural output. However,
vised the Government that it was willing to    1949 witnessed a renewed expansioni in credit and
proceed with discussion of the Paulo Afonso    currency and the reappearance of a budgetary
project and also to investigate the electrification  deficit in place of the small surpluses of 1947
program of the State of Rio Grande do Sul, which  and 1.948. The budgetary deficit was generated
the Government regarded as having the highest    primarily by capital expenditures for government
priority after Paulo Afonso. The Bank also stated  account and increased civil service salaries. Infla-
that it was prepared to investigate promptly the    tionary influences are thus still present in the
merits of any other productive projects which the  Brazilian economy and could become, unless cau-
Brazilian Government regarded as having a high    tion is exercised, a seriously disruptive influence
priority. A staff engineer was thereafter sent to    in the orderly economic development of the
Rio Grande do Sul to study the state electrifica-    country.
tion program and to assist the state authorities in
preparing the program for submission to the Bank.  Colombia
The technical and financial aspects of the program  Last year's Annual Report described the loan
have not yet been fully worked out and are still    of $5 million made to the Caja de Cr6dito Agrario,
under investigation by the Bank. A number of    Industrial y Minero in August 1949 for the pur-
other projects in Brazil have been brought to the  chase of agricultural machinery. As of June 30,
attention of the Bank, but the Federal Government    1950 the Bank had disbursed $2,680,840 for the
has not yet indicated that it would be willing to    purchase of equipment, which included 70 bull-
guarantee a loan from the Bank for any of them.    dozers, some 600 heavy, medium and light tractors,
During the past year Brazil's external exchange  and ploughs, harrows and other auxiliary equip-
position has been considerably strengthened and   ment.  Most of this equipment has been dis-
its backlog of short-term commercial liabilities has    tributed through normal business channels in
been largely liquidated as a result of energetic    Colombia and is already in operation. Since the
import control measures on the part of the Brazil-   loan was made, representatives of the Bank have
ian authorities and the sharp rise in the price of    visited Colombia to observe progress generally
[ 22 3



and to review the procedures used in distributing    the Bank sending representatives to Uruguay in
the machinery.                                 March 1950 to begin final negotiations for a loan,
During the past year the Bank has been discus-    amounting to the equivalent of about $33 million,
sing proposed additional loans aggregating ap-   for a project for augmenting the generating and
proximately $8 million. The loans would finance    distribution facilities for electric power, and for
part of the foreign exchange costs of three new    the expansion of telephone services. The total
hydroelectric projects with a total generating ca-    costs of the project would be the equivalent of
pacity of 41,600 kw. to serve the cities of Mani-   approximately $45 million. The borrower would
zales, Bucaramanga and Cali. Various technical,   be the Administraci6n General de las Usinas E16c-
financial and organizational difficulties which have    tricas y los Telefonos del Estado, an autonomous
hitherto impeded progress are now being resolved    Government agency. Loan negotiations have con-
and the Bank hopes that the discussions can be    tinued in Washington but, up to now, final agree-
brought to an early conclusion.                ment with the Government of Uruguay has not
The consideration of other development projects    yet been reached with respect to certain provisions
in Colombia has awaited submission to the Bank    of the proposed guarantee agreement.
and to the Colombian Government of the report   In the course of the discussions in Montevideo
of the comprehensive survey mission headed by Dr.   in March  1950, the Uruguayan Government
Lauchlin Currie, to which reference has already    asked the Bank to assist in arranging for tech-
been made. This mission remained in Colombia    nical studies on the development of certain sectors
from July to November 1949. Its report and    of the country's economy. Two consultants, whose
recommendations have recently been completed    services were obtained through the cooperation
and will be published in both Spanish and English.    and assistance of The Borden Company and The
The Colombian Government is appointing a non-    General Foods Corporation, were engaged by the
partisan commission to study the report and to    Government on the recommendation of the Bank;
formulate a development program based on the    they paid brief visits to Montevideo to study
analyses and recommendations in the report.    plans for expansion and modernization in the
This technical assistance mission was the first of    milk and fishing industries.  The Government
its kind sponsored by the Bank at the request of a    also asked the Bank to assist in the organization
member government. It marks a new approach    of a technical assistance mission to survey the
that will serve, quite apart from its usefulness to    country's agricultural economy and to recommend
Colombia, as valuable experience in the conduct of    means for increasing agricultural output.  In
future Bank operations. Owing to the breadth    cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Or-
and diversity of the subject matter treated in the    ganization of the United Nations, which has
mission's report, no attempt is made here to sum-    agreed to be joint sponsor of the requested mis-
marize the document itself.                    sion, the Bank arranged for three agricultural
technicians to make a preliminary study of the
*  Uruguay                                    problem, on which the terms of reference and
The Fourth Annual Report mentioned that a    the composition of the mission might be based.
Bank mission (including engineering consultants)  The economic and financial situation in Uruguay
visited Montevideo in February-March 1949 to in.   remains favorable. The Government has followed
vestigate the financial and technical aspects of    conservative monetary and fiscal policies, which
several development projects presented to the    have controlled inflationary pressures. During the
Bank by the Uruguayan Government.  These    year 1949 Uruguay had a surplus on her trade
studies and preliminary negotiations resulted in    account as a whole. The greater availability of
[ 23 ]



goods from Europe made it possible to shift the    de Fomento de la Producci6n; and the other, in
procurement of imports away from dollar sources    March 1950, to review recent fiscal and monetary
of supply into those markets where the bulk of    developments.
Uruguay's meat is sold. In addition, exports to   In 1948 Chile had a budget surplus and its in-
the dollar area increased. The balance of trade    ternational payments were about in balance. Al-
with the dollar area consequently showed substan-    though it then appeared that the two problems of
tial improvement.  Wool, the principal dollar    inflation and foreign exchange stringency were
earner, maintains a satisfactory position in the    about to be overcome, this prospect was unfor-
United States market, although labor disputes de-    tunately not realized in the following year. Chile's
layed the shipment of the 1949-50 clip. The pur-    foreign exchange position was adversely affected
chase of certain foreign-owned properties in the    by dedines in the price and the volume of sales
country with blocked balances caused total foreign  of copper and in the price of natural nitrates, the
exchange reserves to fall. Gold and dollar re-    country's two principal exports. Recently, how-
serves, however, have risen. In general, therefore,    ever, the market for copper has shown some im-
the balance of payments position has strength-    provement. Efforts have been made to eliminate
ened                                            non-essential imports and to utilize non-dollar cur-
rencies wherever possible. The development of
Chile                                          the oil fields in Magellanes and the recent com-
In the Bank's Fourth Annual Report details    pletion of the steel mill at Concepci6n should help
were given of two loans to Chile, one for $13.5    to improve the foreign exchange position.
million to finance the foreign exchange require-  The problem of inflation has been aggravated
ments for the construction of two new power    by the need to tighten control of imports and by
plants and for additions to two existing power    renewed pressure- for wage increases. The Gov-
plants and incidental irrigation, and the other for    ermnent of Chile has stated its intention of fol-
$2.5 million to finance the purchase of agricultural    lowing policies designed to check inflation and to
machinery. The latter loan had been fully dis-   this end has secured advice from the International
bursed by the end of 1949 and the machinery     Monetary Fund and from an economic mission
purchased has now all been shipped to Chile.    organized by the United Nations.
The peso proceeds of the sale of this equipment   The Bank has discussed a number of projects
are being used in the promotion of additional    for possible financing when the present stabiliza-
agricultural development, including part of the    tion program shows satisfactory progress. These
cost of an investigation of large-scale irrigation    include a pulp mill and newsprint plant, the mod-
possibilities. The larger loan, for the purchase of    ernization and re-equipping of the coal mines south
power generating and distribution equipment, is    of Concepcion, which supply almost all of Chile's
being disbursed more slowly; about 22%  had    solid fuels, and several irrigation and other agri-
been withdrawn by June 30, 1950. The new        cultural development projects.  Engineers em-
facilities, when completed, will add 81,000 kw to    ployed by the Bank have visited Chile to make a
the existing generating capacity and will be of    technical examination of the coal mine projects.
substantial assistance in relieving the power short-
age, especially in the Santiago area.            El Salvtador
Bank representatives made two visits to Chile   As foreshadowed in the Fourth Annual Report,
during the past year: one, in November-December    negotiations for a loan for hydroelectric develop-
1949, to review the general economic situation  ment in El Salvador took place in the fall of 1949,
and also the development plans of the Corporaci6n  and on December 14, 1949 the Bank made a loan
f 24 3



of $12,545,000 to the Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidro-    the current balance of payments. The country's
electrica del Rio Lempa, an autonomous govern-    economy would, however, benefit from greater di-
ment agency, to finance the import requirements    versification; it is at present too dependent on the
for the construction of a 30,000 kw power station    sale in a single foreign market, the United States,
at Chorrera del Guayabo on the Lempa River.    of a single product, coffee, which accounts for
The loan was guaranteed by the Government of    over 80%o of all exports. Moreover, there are
El Salvador but the guarantee agreement could    well established industries such as textiles, coffee
not be ratified at the time because El Salvador    milling, mining and food processing, the expan-
had no legislative assembly. However, in order    sion of which has been hampered by a lack of suf-
to establish a firm basis of public support for the    ficient power. This will be remedied by the addi-
loan, the Government set up an ad hoc committee    tional supply to be made available by the Rio
of three Government representatives and six in-    Lempa hydroelectric project. It is also hoped that
dependent businessmen, bankers and lawyers, who    the availability of power from  the project will
thoroughly reviewed all aspects of the project and  encourage the introduction of new  industries.
the loan and guarantee agreements and then gave    Other expected benefits include more efficient
the plan their unanimous support. The loan was    distribution of water and an improvement in ag-
ratified on June 12, 1950 by the National Constit-    ricultural production through the use of power for
uent Assembly elected to draft a new constitution.    irrigation.
An interesting feature of this loan was the
financing of local currency costs of the project.  Guatemala
While there was reason to believe that ample capi-  Discussions with representatives of the Guate-
tal funds were available in El Salvador, the    malan Development Institute and of the Central
limited local capital market did not provide the    Bank during the Fourth Annual Meeting of the
means of readily mobilizing the funds for invest-    Board of Governors led to visits by Bank repre-
ment. At the request of the Salvadorean au-    sentatives to Guatemala in November 1949 and
thorities the Bank made available the services of    in March 1950 to discuss the organization by the
its Director of Marketing to advise and assist in  Bank of an economic survey mission to that coun-
the creation and distribution of a local bond issue    try. A mission, headed by Dr. George E. Britnell,
in the amount of 13,100,000 colones ($5,240,-    head of the Department of Economics and Politi-
000). The issue was fully subscribed within a few  cal Science at Saskatchewan University, Canada
days. Investors included financial institutions,    arrived in Guatemala in June and will complete
business enterprises and individuals. A broad dis-   its work there in the middle of August. The mis-
tribution of the bonds among individual investors    sion includes economists and experts in the fields
was facilitated by a group of local commercial    of agriculture, transportation, and industry and
banks who underwrote a portion of the issue for    power. On the recommendation of the Food and
redistribution to their clients.                Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
The public finances of El Salvador are sound    the agricultural part of the mission's work is be-
and its budget has been balanced for almost    ing undertaken by the Inter-American Institute of
all the past fifteen years; there is no direct    Agricultural Sciences at Turrialba, Costa Rica, as
government internal debt and the foreign debt is    a project of that Institute.
small.  The Central Bank and the commercial       The mission is studying Guatemala's resources
banks have maintained a conservative credit pol-    and potentialities with a view to making recom-
icy and prices have not risen as much as in other    mendations as to the general directions in which
Latin American countries. There is a surplus in    the country's development can most fruitfully be
[25]



undertaken and the conditions required for its   tices and procedures whicb is being carried out at
success. Specifically, its terms of reference pro.    the request of the Cuban Government by Price,
vide for the submission of recommendations as to    Waterhouse and Company.
the scale, timing and order of investment in the
various fields of the economy, considering Guate-    Nicaragua
mala's domestic resources and its capacity to as-  In August 1949 the Nicaraguan Government
sume new foreign obligations. The mission's re-    asked the Bank to arrange for experts to study
port will also serve as a basis for the Bank to con-    projects in the fields of agriculture, power, trans-
sider the extent and purpose of the financial as-    portation and industry. Bank representatives vis-
sistance which it may be able to provide.       ited Nicaragua in October and November of that
year to make a preliminary survey of the develop-
Cuba                                            ment possibilities of the country. They concluded
Early in 1950 the Government of Cuba asked    that the most effective results were likely to be ob-
the Bank to organize a mission to undertake a    tained from the expansion and improvement of
study of that country's economic problems and    agricultural production (including storage and
development potentialities. The Bank accordingly    processing), animal husbandry and transportation
organized a mission under the leadership of Mr.   facilities. Attention was, however, drawn to cer-
Francis Adams Truslow, a prominent lawyer and    tain immediate financial and fiscal problems which
President of the New York Curb Exchange. The    need to be resolved if satisfactory and lasting re-
mission includes economists and specialists in the    sults are to be obtained from any development
fields of agriculture, industry, transportation and    program.  It was agreed with the Nicaraguan
power, mining and finance. The Bank arranged    Government that without the adoption of certain
with the Armour Research Foundation, the South-    remedial measures in these fields, expenditures for
west Research Institute and the Stanford Research    development might aggravate the economic diffi-
Institute to supply jointly most of the technicians    culties confronting the country. Since then the
for this mission, and expects to take full advan-    Government has indicated its intention of seeking
tage of the extensive resources of technical knowl-   technical assistance in carrying through the neces-
edge and experience possessed by these institu-    sary measures.
tions. The technicians supplied by the three re-
search institutes will, however, work under the di-    Other Countries
rection of the chief of mission, who will be re-  The severe earthquake in Ecuador in August
sponsible for the mission's conclusions and recom-    last year caused serious loss of life and great dam-
mendations.                                     age to buildings, factories, irrigation works, rail
This mission arrived in Cuba at the end of July.    lines and highways. Funds for reconstruction and
It will study both the operational efficiency of exist-   relief were provided by several foreign countries.
ing enterprises and the requirements and prospects    During the past year the Bank has had under con-
for additional investment, including the priorities    sideration several development projects suggested
of different types of projects, the amount of capital    by the Government of Ecuador, but it has not yet
required and the financial resources that can be    been able to work out a loan. The Bank has ex-
made available. In particular it will examine how  pressed concern at the continuing default in the
present obstades to domestic or foreign private    service of Ecuador's external bonds and hopes that
investment can be overcome. The mission will    an equitable solution of this problem  may be
have at its disposal the findings of an indepen-    found during the coming year.
dent study of the Cuban Government's fiscal prac-  Bank representatives visited Costa Rica in No-
[ 26 ]



vember 1949, on the occasion of the inauguration    ment Bank. At the request of the Honduran au-
of the new President, and discussions were held    thorities, the International Bank has assigned a
with the President and with members of the new  member of its economic staff for a period of about
Government. The Government decided to defer    eight months to assist in the formulation of the
the appointment of an economic adviser and a re-    policies and programs of the Development Bank.
quest for Bank financing of certain agricultural
projects, both of which had been the subject of  dPer has under study a numnber of agricultural
discussion with Bank representatives during a pre-    and iustria   lopn  prjcts whi  may b
*iu visi     . A Coni.fEoomcAvsr  a            the subject of a loan application to the Bank. A
ViOUS visit. A Council of Economic Advisers has
since b aoemission visited Peru in July 1950 to obtain first-
hand information on the general economic situa-
Government a survey of the development possi-
bilities of the country has been undertaken by the    thon adojmake somerelsoinarexamato of
Twnit*  etr  ud fNwYr.TeBn                   these projects. Inquiries were also made as to the
Twentieth Century Fund of New York. The Bank    popcso  etrn     aifcoyrltosi
hopes that action will soon be taken to effect a set-    pects of r oring a stisfxtory r ondsh
tiemnt o thedefalt n Cota Rca'sextenal between Peru and holders of its external bonds.
tlement of the default on Costa Rica's external
obligations.                                      The Bank has also had informal discussions
The Government of Honduras, with the advice    with representatives of the Dominican Republic
and assistance of the International Monetary    about possible Bank financial and technical assist-
Fund, has set up a Central Bank and a Develop-    ance.
ASIA, AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
India                                           mation of agricultural land. The second was made
Last year's Annual Report recorded a loan of    on April 18, 1950 in the amount of $18.5 mil-
$34 million to India to finance equipment imports   lion to finance part of the cost of the first stage of
for the railway system which had deteriorated    a long-range scheme to develop the resources of
during the war owing to heavy military use and    the Damodar Valley.
lack of maintenance. The deficiencies in the rail-  The first loan is for seven years and carries an
way system, which had greatly impeded the dis-   interest rate of 21/2½  plus the usual commission
tribution and the export of goods, have been    of 1%; amortization will begin in 1952. This
largely overcome during the past year, and it has    loan is being used to purchase part of the heavy
been possible to remove the controls which had    equipment needed to clear some three million
been imposed on the movement of freight. This    acres of land infested with a weed known as kans
improvement has been due not only to the addi-    grass and for a pilot program  to clear about
tion of rolling stock, boilers and spare parts pur-    100,000 acres of jungle land. The restoration to
chased partly with the aid of the Bank's loan, but    cultivation of the land infested by kans grass is
also to administrative and operational measures    expected at the end of seven years to add about a
taken by the Indian Railway authorities. At the    million tons to India's total annual production of
request of the Indian Government, an unused    food grains. Owing to organizational and man-
balance of $1.2 million of the Bank's loan has    agerial difficulties and delays in the initial delivery
been cancelled.                                 of equipment, land reclamation in the 1949-50
Two further loans have been made to India dur-    season started six weeks behind schedule and the
ing the year under review. The first was made on    rate of reclamation was lower than originally
September 29, 1949 in the amount of $10 million    planned. The Indian Government has decided to
to finance the import of equipment for the recla-    postpone the purchase of some of the remaining
f 27]



equipment in order to allow time for correcting    impedes economic development and makes the
the administrative difficulties. It is hoped, how-    budget problem more difficult. Moreover, the In-
ever, that through a readjustment of the work     dian Government has not found it possible to re-
schedule the original objective of reclaiming the  duce military expenditures which still weigh heav-
land within seven years can be attained. The    ily on the economy. India's economic stability
clearance of jungle land will contribute a small    would be seriously threatened by a continuation
addition to India's food supply and also enable the  of the trade deadlock with Pakistan. Recent steps
Government to assess the feasibility of the clear-    towards improved economic relations between In-
ance of jungle lands on a larger scale.           dia and Pakistan are, however, encouraging and,
if they are followed by a lasting understanding
The second loan is for a term of 20 years and   in  eyoare foowedaby  a lasting  un    end
carries an interest rate of 3%o plus the usual com-    and econormic cooperatlon, a way wll be opened
mission of 17%; amortization will begin in 1955.    f
The loan will be used to pay for generating and   Thailand
construction equipment for the Bokaro steam
plant and the Konar dam, as well as for trans-     In Septem        the   Governmen,,to  Thai-
miso  line an  susttin.                          land invited the Bank to send a mISSion1 to investi-
mission lines and substations.
egate certain projects as a basis for possible Bank
The Damodar Valley, extending  northwest    loans and to study the economic and financial sit-
from Calcutta about 200 miles, lies in the richest    uation. The principal projects were railway re-
mineral and the most highly developed industrial    habilitation, improvernent of the port of Bangkok,
region in India. It accounts for over three-quar-    rice irrigation and hydroelectric power. Consult-
ters of India's total known coal deposits and prac-    ants in these four fields were attached to the mis-
tically all of her present coal production. In and  sion which arrived in Thailand at the end of De-
near this area are India's rich iron ores, large de-    cember 1949 and remained there for two months.
posits of bauxite, and high quality mica. The com-  Thailand's railways suffered from bombing dur-
pletion of the Bokaro-Konar project will provide,    ing the war. Important bridges and workshops
at reasonable rates, urgently needed electrical en-    were demolished and locomotives and rolling
ergy for the expansion and development of indus-    stock rendered unserviceable. The Bank's assist-
try. The project will also supply water for irri-    ance has been sought i their rehabilitation and
gation in the lower valley.                       possible expansion.
A Bank mission visited India in March 1950        The proposed improvement of the port of Bang-
to review developments ir the economic and fi-    kok calls for facilities at the terminal to reduce
nancial situation during 1949. Since the middle    turn-round time and for the dredging of the chan-
of 1949 India's external payments position has    nel through the bar at the mouth of the river Chao
shown improvement, chiefly through a sharp cut    Phya to accommodate ships of 10,000 tons. At
in imports and a post-devaluation upswing in ex-    present, because ships of over 5,000 tons cannot
ports. Inflationary pressures have been kept within    cross the bar, expensive lighterage and trans-ship-
bounds and the internal financial situation has re-    ment charges have to be incurred and the expan-
mained relatively stable. Production has followed  sion of foreign trade is retarded.
an upward trend, with the important exceptions      Rice exports are of vital importance to Thai-
of the jute and cotton textile industries. But in-    land, as they provide not only substantial amounts
flation remains a constant threat as budget deficits    of foreign exchange but also considerable revenue
continue, although at reduced levels, as the scar-   in local currency for the Treasury through the
city of foodstuffs persists, and as real import needs    operations of the Rice Monopoly. However, the
are restricted. The lethargy in the capital market    present export surplus may decline if the popula-
[ 28 ]



tion continues to grow at the present rate and if    of railway rehabilitation, the development of the
there is no corresponding increase in production.    port at Bangkok and the Chao Phya irrigation
The Government proposes to build a barrage at    project, including the installation of penstocks and
Chainat on the Chao Phya river about 100 miles    the necessary extension to the barrage with a view
above Bangkok. This barrage with accompany-    to later installation of hydroelectric generating fa-
ing irrigation canals would assure the supply of    cilities.
water to 21/4 million acres of cultivated land in the
Central Plain and should make possible increased    The Philippines
exports of rice. It would also permit navigation   In October 1949 the Bank received the techni-
along waterways in areas which now have poor    cal reports on the proposed hydroelectric projects
communications.                                  on the island of Luzon, for which the Philippine
There is a severe shortage of power in Thai-    Government had submitted a formal loan applica-
land. The two existing thermal stations in Bang-    tion in August 1948. While examination of these
kok were seriously damaged during the war. The    technical reports was proceeding in Washington,
Thai authorities are making plans for their repair,    a Bank mission was sent to the Philippines to re-
but even when these facilities have been restored,    view the general economic situation on the spot.
the output of power will still be insufficient to    An assessment of economic developments during
meet the growing demand, particularly for indus-    1949 revealed a serious deterioration in the coun-
trial development. Plans are therefore also being    try's financial position. The trade deficit had
reached record heights, foreign exchange reserves
made to construct the Chainat barrage in such a    hdbe  osatydand'  pt  fetari
way that hydroelectric facilities can later be in-                       I   I
stalled there to supplement the existing thermal    nary payments from the United States, and an
capacity in Bangkok.                             unbalanced internal financial position had con-
tinued to maintain import demand at high levels.
In spite of dislocation and destruction caused    Steps to improve this situation, including the in-
by the war, the financial position of Thailand is   troduction of more stringent import controls, im-
strong. Gold and foreign exchange holdings    port credit restrictions, and a comprehensive ex-
have greatly increased and the external debt is    change control, were taken early in December
small. Trade surpluses have been steadily main-    1949; at the same time the Government under-
tained, principally as a result of large exports of    took a review of its internal financial policies and
rice at high prices, and of rubber exports at twice    of its economic development program.
their pre-war volume. It is expected that Thai     In these circumstances it was decided in De-
rice will command good prices for some time. A   cember 1949 that consideration of the loan appli-
conservative budget policy has kept the internal    cation should be deferred until the economic de-
debt at a moderate level. Among countries in the    velopment program and the measures proposed to
Far East, Thailand has a number of comparative    implement it had been studied by the Bank. At the
advantages, notably a lower density of population,    end of January 1950, however, the Government
a higher income per head and a more adequate    informed the Bank that, owing to difficulties ex-
supply of food.  Thailand's major problem  in    perienced in the preparation of this program, it
carrying out its development program is likely to  was discussing with the United States Government
be the limited availability of domestic capital re-    the establishment of an expert commission to
sources.                                         study Philippine economic problems. Adequate
The Bank has invited the Thai Government to    measures to solve these problems have not yet been
send representatives to Washington to negotiate    adopted and no development program  has yet
loans for Bank participation in financing the costs    been submitted to the Bank. The Bank has ac-
f 29 1



cordingly not been in a position to take action on    to permit, at a later stage, the storage of water
the loan application.                              for irrigation.
Irrigation is of vital importance to the economic
Iraq                                               development of Iraq.  Agriculture, the occupa-
On J 5 0tion of over 80%  of the population, is primarily
$12,,   to the Kigo  of raq frte on-    dependent on irrigation which, in turn, depends
struction  to the Wadi T     rar flood   cont      upon control of the country's rivers, the Tigris, the
ptrouctio on  the T aigrisRi. Ther floan ifontro   Euphrates and their tributaries. Land that could
termect of 15e yearis and rcarrieoan inest forat o be cultivated under irrigation is plentiful and the
term2 of pu  te   ald   commissin;  amor           possibilities for further agricultural production
ti34on payens wilusual begi inmmiss1956.           and exports are, therefore, considerable.
tion payments wil begin in 1956.The oil resources of Iraq afe, of course, one of
The project, which is designed to prevent recur-    ith mosl resurceassotIa Re, ofco     one ro
rent floding  f larg  areas f cultvated and an  its most valuable assets. Receipts from oil royal-
urbn  property,o wll° ioeas tof talcapialo         ties were much reduced when the pipeline to Haifa
.pe w i v of which the  was dosed, but they have steadily increased since
equivalent to about $29 million, of    .           then and may be expected to rise further when the
Bank's loan will cover the estimated foreign ex-    n    p
cost. Thse re epectd t incude  ur- new pipeline to the Mediterranean is completed in
change       .                                      1953. Under a recentlv enacted law all oil royal-
chases in the United States, the sterling area and  t
possibly elsewhere, of equipment and materials to    ties will be placed at the disposal of a new Devel-
be used in excavation and in the construction of    opment Board, which will have responsibility for
levees a hd kplanning and executing development projects in
levees and headworks. The loan iS secured by an    Iraq.
assignment of oil royalties and the loan arrange-    Iraq.
ments provide that Iraq will set aside from these
royalties sufficient funds to meet the domestlic    favorable outlook for economic development. In
recent years, however, there have been a series of
costs of the project.
The Wadi Tharthar flood control project is part    budget deficits, and an unfavorable balance of
trade has caused a substantial contraction of Iraq's
of~~~~ a.oecmrhniepa,wihwl  vnu                foreign exchange reserves. MSeasures have recently
ally provide, in addition, for water storage, iegula- foegexhnersesMauesavreetl
been taken by the Government to remedy this sit-
tion of water supply and irrigation. The initial
project calls for the construction of a dam across    thovr
the Tigris River at a point about 50 miles above   iTe Govsubmit fhe proects fcnsidha-
Baghdad, which will direct excess flood waters into    it  includin irrition, grain stora  tobsdac
tion, including irrigatiori grain storage, tobacco
an uninhabited and barren depression, known as    storage and agricultural machinery.  The Bank
the Wadi Tharthar, situated between the Euphrates  has agreed to send technicians to Iraq in the au-
and the Tigris northwest of Baghdad. It is ex-    tumn to investigate these projects.
pected that the project will result in improvements
in health and sanitation and in increased agricul-    Iran
tural production, both by protecting against floods   As stated in last year's Annual Report, the Vice-
and by preventing dust storms from  the Wadi       President of the Bank visited Iran in March 1949,
Tharthar. It will also enable the Government to    and in June Bank representatives paid a further
save substantial sums now spent on levee mainte-    short visit to Teheran. Later in 1949 the Bank
nance and control and on flood relief measures for  suggested that a schedule of projects for the first
the population. Although this project is limited to  years of the Seven-Year Plan, based on a survey
flood control, the dam is being so constructed as  made by a consortium  of engineering firms re-
[ 30 ]



tained in 1948 by the Iranian Goverrunment, be    ment bank. The successful execution of these
submitted to the Bank for study.                 projects would be expected not only to increase
At the invitation of the Iranian Government, a    the productivity of undertakings already in hand
Bank mission visited Iran in April and May, 1950    but also to attract private capital to finance some
to make a survey of the economic and financial    of the industrial projects submitted to the Bank.
situation. This mission investigated the progress    The Bank has advised Ethiopia of its willingness
made in the initial period of the Plan's operations,    to enter into negotiations for loans to finance the
especially in connection with the establishment of    foreign exchange costs of these three projects,
appropriate administrative machinery, and exam-    estimated at about $8 million, provided suitable
ined the future program, particularly the proposed  arrangements are made to ensure competent
financing of projects induded in the second year    management and subject, in the case of the tele-
of the Plan and the measures to be taken to limit   communications project, to a detailed examination
its inflationary impact. The Bank mission also    of its technical features.
studied the proposals for a reduction in the note
cover requirements and for a new contract pro-    Unon of South Africa
viding for increased oil revenues, which are being  The Vice-President of the Bank visited the
considered by the Government as means of ob-    Union of South Africa in March 1950 to gain first-
taining substantial amounts of foreign exchange    hand information about conditions in that area.
and local currency for the Plan Organization, the    The development of the Orange Free State gold
Government agency which has been entrusted with    fields will call for considerable private capital over
execution of the Plan. Technical and financial    the next few years and other development proj-
aspects of three specific projects which are in an    ects will need substantial additionai sums. Apart
advanced stage of preparation, namely, two ce-    from the major fields of industrial effort such as
ment plants and a plan for the rehabilitation and    power, coal, steel and chemicals, plans exist for
expansion of the Port of Khorramshahr, were dis-    the development of secondary industries on a sub-
cussed with a view to possible Bank financing. The    stantial scale. The Industrial Development Cor-
Bank mission's report and recommendations are    poration of South Af-ric'a wa   set up i-940 to
now under consideration.                         assist in providing medium- and long-term capital
for such industries bv direci investment and also
Ethiopia                                         to endeavor to attract to them local and overseas
In November 1949 the Ethiopian Government    capital. Transportation and soil conservation will
applied to the Bank for a loan of $25 million for    also call for important effort L  the Union's econ-
the financing of 15 projects. They included trans-    omy is to be built upon a solid basis.
portation, communications, agricultural develop-   The South African Govemnt  seouently
ment, improvement of water supplies, and a    invited the Bank to send a missiori to 4r} Union
number of industrial enterprises, such as meat    to make a survey of its economy and ihnvestment
packing, textiles, chemicals, leather and ceramics.    opportunities, The mission is at present in
In March 1950 a Bank mission was dispatched to   field.
Ethiopia to study the projects and to survey the
economy of the country.                          British Overseas Territories
The mission concluded that Ethiopian economic    Following their visit to the Union of South
development would be best served at this stage    Africa, the Vire-President snd    parez visited
by a program of highway improvement, the de-    both Northem and Southern Rhodesia in order to
velopment of telecommunications, and the estab-    become famiKiar with the economrc problems and
lishment of an industrial and agricultural develop-    potentialities of those territories.



At the time of the last Annual Report dis-    been in abeyance this year pending investigation
cussions had taken place with representatives of    by the Egyptian Government of the possibility of
the Colonial Development Corporation regarding   obtaining the necessary equipment by use of its
a possible loan of about $5 million for the pur-    own non-dollar resources. The Government has
chase of dollar equipment to be utilized in various    informed the Bank that, in the meantime, the
development undertakings of the Corporation in   Ministry of Public Works intends to experiment
the dependent overseas territories of the United    with the irrigation of a small area in order to test
Kingdom. In October 1949 representatives of the    the effects of tube well operations on the under-
Corporation came to Washington to negotiate    ground water-table.
the terms and conditions of a loan agreement.      The preliminary discussions between the Bank
The negotiations were protracted but, at their    and the Government of the Lebanon referred to
conclusion, it was the Bank's belief that a basis   in last year's Annual Report were inconclusive.
of agreement had been reached which would be    In September 1949 the Lebanese Government in-
acceptable to both organizations.  However, on    formed the Bank that studies on a comprehensive
December 1, 1949 the Chairman of the Corpo-    water development program  (including drinking
ration informed the Bank that the terms of the   water, irrigation and hydroelectric power) were
loan, as worked out with his negotiators in    being carried out and that these studies should be
Washington, were not acceptable to the Corpo-    far enough advanced to justify an application to
ration. Although expressing his appreciation that    the Bank for a loan in the latter part of 1950.
the Bank had exerted every effort to meet the      Pakiftan joined the Bank on July 1i, 1950. In
Corporation's point of view, he stated that the  anticipation of this event the Government of
Corporation did not desire to proceed further with  Pakistan asked the Bank to include Pakistan in
the loan because "the Bank's requirements, espe-    the itinerary of its mission which was visiting
cially the proposed non-financial covenants, are    member countries in Asia earlv in 1950. Accord-
not reconcilable with the principles and methods    ingly, the Bank mission visited Paikistan in Febru-
by which this Corporation operates."             ary-March of this year and discussed the economic
situation and some of the development projects
Other Countries                                  which the Government had been studying. Data
The negotiations with the Government of    on several of these projects were recently pre
Egypt for a possible Bank loan for the irrigation  sented to the Bank and are now being examnined
of about 250,000 acres in Qena Province have    by the Bank's staff.
EUROPE
Turkey                                           silos and steel storage sheds, the mechanization of
On July 7, 1950 the Bank made two loans to    existing warehouses and the acquisition of tar-
:he Republic of Turkey: one of $3,900,000 for    paulins for use where warehouse space will not
grain storage facilities and the other of $12,500,-    be available. The total cost of this project will be
00 for port development.                        about $10,000,000.
The first loan is for a term of 18 years and     Turkey is essentially an agricultural country
:arries an interest rate of 27/8%7, plus the usual    and grain is its largest crop. The area devoted
[% commission; amortization begins in 1954. It   to grain production has increased in recent years
will be used to finance the foreign exchange costs    and the possibilities for further increase are con-
of the construction of a number of concrete grain    sidered good. However, there are at present stor-
f 32]



age facilities for only about half the average an-    key joined in asking the assistance of the Bank in
nual purchases, handling methods are prirnitive   working out a program to stimulate the productive
and expensive, and losses through spillage, infes-    investment of private capital. A Bank consultant
tation and exposure are high. The project is de-    held discussions with Turkish businessmen and
signed to enlarge storage capacity, improve han-    government officials in late 1949 and again early
dling facilities and reduce unnecessary losses.   this year. As a result the Industrial Development
The second loan is for a term of 25 years and   Bank of Turkey was formed in April 1950.
carries an interest rate of 31/4%, plus the usual   The Industrial Bank will assist in the estab-
1%  commission; amortization begins in 1956.    lishment of new private enterprises, the expansion
This loan of $12,500,000 will be used to finance  and modernization of existing private undertak-
the foreign exchange costs of a program of port    ings, the encouragement of private capital invest-
improvement and construction projects, the total    ment, both domestic and foreign, in Turkish in-
cost of which is estimated at $38,600,000.        dustry, and the promotion of a securities market.
Turkey's sea-borne foreign and coastal trade    For these purposes, the Industrial Bank will grant
is at present impeded by the inadequacy of its    medium- and long-terms loans, take equity partic-
ports.  Cargo-handling facilities are generally    ipations and, in exceptional cases, may itself estab-
obsolete and many harbors are either overcrowded    lish new enterprises.
or unprotected. The program provides for the        The entire equity capital of the Industrial
construction of new berthing and handling facil-    Bank, amounting to T.L. 12.5 million ($4.5 mil-
ities in the major Turkish ports; part of these    lion), has been subscribed by private interests.
improvements is designed to service new grain     The Central Bank of Turkey has undertaken to
elevators which are to be built under the grain    furnish additional capital on a loan basis up to
storage project. On the Black Sea, where Turkey   an amount equal to the paid-in capital of the
has no natural harbor, a new port will be con-    Industrial Bank.  Moreover, the International
structed at Samsun to open up the potentially     Bank has indicated its willingness to negotiate a
rich hinterland.                                  loan of up to $9 million, provided that the organi-
A third project examined by the Bank was the    zation and management of the Industrial Develop-
construction of a multi-purpose dam on the Seyhan  ment Bank are established along lines satisfactory
River. The investigation indicated that the cost    to the International Bank.
of the project would probably be several times      As noted in the Fourth Annual Report, the
greater than the original estimate and that fur-    Turkish Government requested the Bank to send
ther work would have to be carried out at the     an economic survey mission to Turkey to help the
dam site to ascertain the cost more accurately.   Government formulate a comprehensive devel-
During the past year the Bank has also actively    opment program. Mr. James M. Barker, a promi-
assisted in the formation of Turkey's new Indus-    nent American businessman, was selected to head
trial Development Bank. Hitherto, Turkish pri-   the mission, and he made a preliminary trip to
vate capital has not participated on a substantial    Turkey in November 1949. Thereafter, terms of
scale in long-term industrial investment. On the    reference for the mission were agreed between the
other hand, the Turkish Government has estab-    Government and the Bank, providing that the
lished and operated a number of industrial, com-    mission's report should contain recommendations
mercial and financial enterprises. Recently, how-    concerning (a) the directions in which investment
ever, the Government has indicated a desire to    might best be channeled in the Turkish economy,
encourage private enterprises. Accordingly, last    (b) other means of increasing Turkey's agricul-
fall the Government and private interests in Tur-    tural and industrial production and of improving
[331



the efficiency of its distribution system, and (c)  The machinery being obtained  by Finland
desirable changes in  economic and financial    and Yugoslavia as a result of the Bank's loas
policies and public administration to accelerate    and of purchases from European suppliers shousld
the rate of Turkey's development. This mission   enable those countries -to increase considerably
is now in Turkey. It consists of 14 persons, in-    their annual production and exports of timbcr.
cluding two members of the Bank's staff, a mem-    The timber importing countries of Europe should
ber of the staff of the Food and Agriculture    likewise derive benefits, both from the availability
Organization of the United Nations and a public    of increased supplies of much needed timber and
health specialist recruited for the mission by the    also from their reduced dependence upon imports
World Health Organization. The remainder of    of timber which must be paid for in hard currency.
the mission comprises economists and specialists
in transportation, industry, power and public ad-    France
ministration.
The Bank has maintained close contac
Timber Loans                                     throughout the year with the French Government.
Members of the Bank's engineering staff visited
On October 17, 1949 the Bank made two    France last winter to observe the progress of two
loans to finance the purchase of timber equipment:    steel projects partly financed with a portion of the
one of $2.3 million to the Republic of Finland   proceeds of the Bank's $250 miillion loan of May
and one of $2.7 million to the Federal People's    1947 to Credit National. The construction of the
Republic of Yugoslavia. The loans carry interest    continuous cold rolling mill at Montataire was
at 2% plus the usual commission of 1%, and are    completed in January 1950 and test operations
to be repaid in full by September 30, 1951.      started in the same month. Tne continuous hot
These loans were part of a cooperative project    strip mill at Denain, which will produce steel
in which a number of timber exporting and im-    strips to be rerolled at Montataire, is expected to
porting countries in Europe participated, and    be completed at the beginning of 1951.
which was worked out with the aid of represent-    The past year has been one of marked im-
atives of the Bank, the Economic Commission for    provement generally in the overall economic posi-
Europe and the Food and Agriculture Organiza-    tion of France. Industrial production rose during
tion of the United Nations. This project, which  1949 to a level exceeding that of 1929, the pre-
was described in some detail in the Fourth Annual    war peak year.  Agricultural production also
Report of the Bank, is designed to increase the    reached pre-war levels although recently there
production of sawn soft-wood and pitprops by the    have been indications that the rate of improvement
European timber exporting countries and to aug-    may not be maintained. The post-war inflation
ment the supplies of these products available to    has been checked, but internal monetary equilib-
the importing countries. It was originally con-    rium is still precarious. Furthermore, the overall
templated that similar loans would be made to    current deficit in the 1949 balance of payments
Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland, but Austria    of the franc area was still about $700 million and
and Poland advised the Bank that they did not    the deficit in the current dollar account amounted
need loans for the purpose, and Czechoslovakia    to nearly $900 million, financed mainly by ECA
withdrew its application because of difficulties in    grants. The Bank is fully aware of the implica-
working out timber payments agreements with the    tions of a continuing dollar gap of this size and is
importing countries.                             therefore carefully following all economic and
[ 34 l



political developments that affect the solution of    and the latent inflation of the post-war years has
this problem.                                 now been practically absorbed; to an important
extent this has been made possible through ECA
Netherlands                                    aid. The financial position of the Government
Close contact has been maintained throughout   improved in 1949 and a small Treasury cash sur-
the year with the Government of the Netherlands    plus was recorded. This, however, was due in
regarding the Bank loans, aggregating $222 mil-   large part to non-recurrent factors.
lion, which were made to or with the guarantee of  There were also favorable developments in the
the Government and which were described in    balance of payments. Exports covered 72%  of
previous Annual Reports. At the request of the    imports in 1949 compared with 55% in the pre-
borrower, the Bank cancelled on March 17, 1950    vious year and shipping earnings increased sub-
$6.2 million of the $15 million loan made in July,    stantially.  The current deficit in the overall
1949 to the Herstelbank. The basic character of    balance of payments for 1949 is provisionally
the loan was unchanged by the cancellation, al-   estimated at the equivalent of over $200 million
though some of the original 24 industrial projects   compared with over $400 million in the previous
to be financed under the loan were eliminated and    year. The dollar deficit at over $300 million was
allocations for a number of other projects were   roughly $100 million less than in 1948. Since it
reduced.                                       was more than offset by ECA aid and other capital
The cancellation reflected the development of    movements, the Netherlands gold and dollar re-
Holland's trade relations in 1949, particularly    serves increased considerably.
after the devaluation of the guilder. As a result
of the conclusion of a new trade agreement with    Belgium
Germany, considerable German mark balances       In February  1950 Bank  engineers visited
accumulated in the hands of Dutch exporters    Belgium  to observe the work on the projects
which made it possible for Dutch industrial con-   financed under the $16 million loan made in 1949.
cerns to finance imports of equipment from Ger-    The cold rolling and tin plating mills of the
many without recourse to the loan from the Bank.    Compagnie des Fers Blancs et T6les a Froid
Procurement of industrial equipment in Belgium  (Ferblatil) at Tilleur are being completed and
was financed with the help of ECA drawing rights   the entire plant should be ready for operation at
and this also reduced the need for aid from the    the beginning of 1951. The Ougree-Marihaye
Bank. Moreover, some of the projects became too    project at Ougr6e near Liege, consisting of the
expensive after the devaluation of the guilder be-    construction of a new  reversing slabbing and
cause of the higher cost of imported dollar goods.    blooming mill, the re-arrangement of ingot cast-
Economic activity in the Netherlands has con-   ing facilities and the installation of new cranes,
tinued to expand. Agricultural output as a whole    was completed in May 1950. It is expected that
has reached its prewar volume and industrial   the erection by the Union des Centrales Electriques
production, in which there was a marked increase    de Liege-Namur-Luxembourg  (Linalux) of a
during the past year, is now well above the pre-   thermal power plant at Awirs will be completed
war level. During the past year domestic con-    by the middle of 1951. Total disbursements un-
sumption showed a tendency to decline and the    der the loan amounted to $10,372,934 as of June
increase in production has been used to maintain    30, 1950.
domestic investment and to reduce the country's  In the summer of 1949 discussions took place
dependence on foreign assistance. Progress to-   in Washington and Brussels regarding the financ-
wards internal monetary equilibrium continued    ing of the public works program of the Belgian
[35 1



Government.  Railway electrification and mod-    $4.3 million of the loan was utilized for the ac-
ernization of ports were mentioned as possible    quisition of locomotives, diesel auto cars, diesel
fields for investment and a Bank mission made a  trailers and flat freight cars by the Luxembourg
survey of the Belgian transport system. However,    Railways. This new equipment replaced rolling
the easing of the internal capital market and the    stock destroyed or worn out during the war.
issues floated in Switzerland by the National Rail-
ways and the Societe Nationale de Credit a l'In-    Denmark
dustrie enabled the Belgian Government to start    Disbursement of the loan of $40,000,000
work on the projects without recourse to the Bank.    which was made to the Kingdom of Denmark in
After a period of unusual prosperity a recession  1947 was completed by March 31, 1949. The
occurred in the Belgian heavy industries in the    loan assisted in financing the reconstruction of
middle of 1949. By the spring of 1950, however,   the productive facilities and resources of Denmark
the position in these industries had improved, and  and the goods financed covered a wide range of
as the textile and construction industries were    industrial raw materials, machinery and finished
operating at or near capacity, industrial produc-    goods.
tion as a whole recovered to about the level reached  Danish agricultural and industrial production
a year earlier. Nevertheless, unemployment has    has now largely recovered from the destruction
remained a significant problem. Partly as a con-    and dislocation of the war. There were good
sequence, a deficit appeared in the ordinary budget    harvests in 1948 and 1949 and investment has
in 1949 and an enlarged program of public in-    been maintained at a high level.  Political sta-
vestment was undertaken, financed by public issues    bility and sound government fnancial policy have
in the domestic market.  The 1950 estimates,    provided a basis for the effective utilization of the
however, show ordinary receipts and expenditures    Bank's loan and other external financial aid.
balanced. The balance of payments of the Belgo-    However, there is a deficit in both the dollar and
Luxembourg Economic Union showed an overall   the overall balance of payments. Denmark tradi-
surplus on current account in 1949 as a whole.    tionally imports grains and oil-seeds to supply its
The dollar deficit, provisionally estimated at over    highly organized dairy industry, the products of
$200 million, or about the same as in 1948, was    which form the bulk of its exports and are sold
financed mainly by ECA conditional aid.          mainly to European industrial countries. As these
and other essential imports such as cotton and
Luxembourg                                       petroleum must for the most part be obtained
The disbursement of the $12 million loan of    from  dollar sources, Denmark will have great
1947 was completed on December 31, 1949,    difficulty in balancing its dollar payments as long
shortly after the Luxembourg Government had      as European currencies, especially sterling, remain
cancelled some $238,000 of the loan. The major    inconvertible.  Furthermore, the 1949 devalua-
part of the loan, $7.5 million, helped to finance    tions, in which Denmark participated, have seri-
the hot and cold rolling mills of the ARBED      ously affected the terms of trade. After the de-
company at Dudelange. Members of the Bank's    valuations, the prices of Denmark's imports rose,
engineering staff visited Luxembourg last winter    while the prices of exports to the United Kingdom,
to survey the progress of the project. It is expected    its principal customer, did not increase since they
that the hot mill will be completed in November    are governed by long term agreements.  These
1950 and the cold mill in March 1951, but a furth-    difficulties are not likely to be speedily or easily
er three months will be needed for tests before the    overcome. The Bank has continued to follow
plant can start commercial operations.  About    dosely developments in the Danish economy and
36



frequent exchanges of views have taken place be-   the Finnish markka in terms of United States
tween representatives of the Bank and of the    dollars was reduced by 40%. In spite of the
Danish Government.                              resulting deterioration in Finland's terms of trade,
both the overall and the dollar balance of pay-
Italy                                           ments position improved during the year and
Rnrospects for the future are good. Reparation
Reference was made in the Fourth Annual    "  p                           g
Report to the possibility of Bank assistance in the    deliveries to the U.S.S.R., due to be completed by
financing of the Italian Government's program of  ptember 1952, have been made promptly. The
economic development for Southern Italy. This    conclusion of a trade agreement with the U.S.S.R.
program involves public investment of 1,000 bil-   in June 1950, which provides for an exchange of
lion le$ blo oy goods equivalent to $352 million in each direc-
lion lirc ($1.6 billion) over ten years mainly in    tio  ovrtepro   915,sol  nbeFn
tion over the period 1951-55, should enable Fin-
irrigation and land reclamation and improvement,   land to continue to export the output of the metal
In February 1950, after the preparation of the    and engineering industries which were developed
program had reached a sufficiently advanced stage,    l  . .                         .      -
representatives of the Bank went to Italy to ex- largly to meet aeparain  oigatin   tera
amine  varius  economc  and  admnistrativ  nally, there has been a marked rise in the stand-
amine  various  economic  and  adn-minstrative..
ard of living, but the present minorit,y coalition
aspects of the program. When the President of    ao     ving,bt  the present dinoity ioalitio
the Bank visited Rome in April, he announced    °goenmentill probablys  hver dcult in keep-
that the Bank had made a preliminary examina-    lag infaionary pressurstunder cnrl  icr -
tion of the development program  and of the    larly in view of the substantial wage increases
Italian economic outlook, and would be prepared    granted in 1950.
to discuss possible financial assistance for the pro-  Reconstruction and development in the two
sectors of the economy to which the greater part
gram when the formation of the necessary ad-    ofteBnslanibigdvtdhveme
ministrative agency, the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno,    go    poess, alto    is   too sovon fr the
had been completed. The Bank is now reviewing    loan tohaehan appreciable   fect tEe
the information which its representatives have               .       ''
power output is now above the pre-war level and
restrictions on the supply of power to the wood-
Finland                                         working industries have been lifted. Output in
1949 in most branches of the woodworking in-
A  Bank mission visited Finland in March    dustries was considerably above the 1948 level.
1950 to review the utilization of the proceeds of    The Government is taking measures to stimulate
the loan of $12.5 million which had been made to    the use of limestone powder in agriculture and the
the Bank of Finland on August 1, 1949, the prog-    additional output made possible by the Bank's
ress of the power, woodworking and limestone    loan should perform a useful purpose in increas-
powder projects being financed under that loan,    ing soil fertility.
and economic and financial developments occur-
ring since the loan was made.                   Yugoslavia
Finland's external position was adversely af-   As mentioned in the Fourth Annual Report,
fected in 1949 by a marked setback in the export    a Bank mission was in Yugoslavia in the fall of
market for pulp and paper, principally in the    1949 to obtain information which might provide
United States, but by the spring of 1950 a strong    the basis for a loan to that country. The discus-
recovery had been made. As a result of devalua-    sions thus initiated were continued in Washington
tions in July and September, 1949, the value of    between the Bank and representatives of the
1 37 1



Yugoslav Government, and progress has been    which a loan from the Bank might be spent, and
made in the examination of Yugoslavia's economic   in working out tentative plans for a loan, partly
position and prospects, in appraising the require-    in U.S. dollars and partly in European currencies.
ments of the principal sectors of the economy in    These discussions are still going on.
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND RESOURCES
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND DISBURSEMENT OF LOANS
During the past fiscal year the Bank received    the Executive Directors or the Board of Gover-
the full amount due as interest, commission and    nors. The Executive Directors are presenting a
other charges on its loans; such charges accruing    separate report to the Board of Governors regard-
during the year amounted to $25,966,479. In ad-   ing the establishment of such reserve and the
dition, repayments of principal of Bank loans ag-    disposition of the Bank's surplus as of June 30,
gregated $552,136.                              1949.
As shown in the Statement of Income and Ex-     Total disbursements made on the Bank's loans
penses which appears as Appendix B to this re-    up to June 30, 1950 amounted to the equivalent
port, the Bank's operations for the twelve months    of $614,162,160. Of the disbursements made dur-
ended June 30, 1950 resulted in a net income    ing the fiscal year ended June 30, 1950 approxi-
amounting to $13,698,398, exclusive of loan    mately 40% was spent outside the United States
commissions credited to the Special Reserve. The    as against approximately 20%  in the previous
total net income for the entire period of the Bank's   year. The geographical distribution of total ex-
operations up to June 30, 1950 amounted to    penditures financed by the Bank up to June 30,
$27,339,492. In addition to this net income,    1950, in round numbers by groups of countries,
$5,663,064 was set aside in the Special Reserve    was as follows:
during the year ended June 30, 1950; the total
amount in the Special Reserve was thereby in-                                      Amount
creased to $13,737,205.                             Area of Expenditures         (in millions
The Executive Directors on July 27, 1950 es-                                of U. S. dollar')
tablished a reserve against losses on loans and     United States .......           452.3
guarantees made by the Bank and allocated to        Latin America.        .55 5
such reserve the net income of the Bank for the     Europe ....   .. 66.7
fiscal year ended June 30, 1950 (after making pro-  Near East ....    2.5
vision for any amount payable in respect thereof    Africa ......................     2.2
on repurchase of Poland's shares) and the net       Far East .. .                      .1
income accruing thereafter until further action by    Total .... 614.1
[38 ]



FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR LENDING
The status of funds available to the Bank for    or part of their 18%o currencies available in spe-
loans on June 30, 1950 may be summarized in    cific instances. The following authorizations have
round numbers in terms of United States dollars    been received by the Bank: Ecuador has agreed
as follows:                                        to the use of the full amount of its 187% subscrip-
Amount (in millions    tion except for the export of a few specific items;
of U.S. S)        Honduras has informed the Bank that after Jan-
2 % paid-in portion of subscriptions           uary 1, 1951 the Bank could use the full amount
of all members ............. $ 162.0       of its 18%  subscription; Costa Rica, Finland,
18% portion of subscription of the
United States ............. 5..   71.5     France, Italy and the Netherlands have agreed in
18% portion of subscriptions of other           principle to the use of their 18%o subscriptions for
members made available         16.4        loans, subject to the approval of the government
Total Available Capital                       in specific cases as they arise; Colombia has simi-
Subscriptions ...............  749.9       larly consented in principle to the use of one
Net available funds resulting from
operations .................   27.8        half of its 18%  subscription. The Unted King-
Net proceeds from sale of bonds-                dom has agreed to arrangements whereby, in cer-
excluding premium ..........  260.6        tain approved cases, the Bank may use up to £50,-
Gross Total Available Funds ..... $1,038.3   000 in any one such case to meet borrowers' re-
Total loans committed ...... $816.4             quirements, of which they may not be aware when
Less cancellations, loans sold
and principal repayments                   the loan agreement is concluded.  To June 30,
available for reloaning. . 45.6   770.8    1950 a total of £10,768 has been so used and is in-
Net available funds June 30, 1950.   267.5   cluded in the above table.  The United King-
dom also agreed in principle to the use of a fur-
ther £1,000,000 up to the summer of 1951, of
This table reflects only those funds which have    which £250,000 has been specifically approved for
been utilized by the Bank or may be utilized with-    use in the loan to Brazilian Traction, Light and
out further approval of members. The 18%o por-    Power Company and is included in the above
tion of the United States subscription was made    table. In the case of a number of countries, the
available for lending to the Bank in 1947. The     use of 18%  subscriptions thus made available to
18% portion of the subscription of members other    the Bank for lending, either in principle or with-
than the United States, which is contained in the    out further approval of members, is restricted to
above table, includes the entire 18%  portion of    expenditure on goods and services coming from
the subscription of El Salvador and the following  the respective countries.
sums from  other countries: the equivalent of         The Bank realizes that many of its members
$2,000,000  from  Belgium; the  equivalent of    remain unable to give unconditional consent at
8,000,000 U.S. dollars and an additional 2,000,-    this time to large quantities of unrequited exports.
000 Canadian dollars from Canada; the equivalent    However, it feels that most members can make at
of $125,000 from  Denmark; 17,300,000 pesos    least small amounts of their 18%70 subscriptions
from  Mexico; the equivalent of $126,000 from       available for loans. The Bank has been greatly
Paraguay; and 760,768 pounds sterling from the     encouraged by the increasing amounts of such
United Kingdom.                                     funds that have been made available during the
In addition to those funds which are included    past year and by the evidence that there are likely
in the table, the Bank has had a gratifying degree    to be substantial further additions to its loanable
of success in its efforts to obtain further assurance    resources as a result of additional consents in the
that, as funds are needed, members will make all    future.
1391



ISSUE AND SALE OF SECURITIES
On January 25, 1950 the Bank made the second    to a broader market in the United States for the
public offering of its bonds in the United States    Bank's obligations.
market. $100,000,000 2%  Serial Bonds of 1950       On March 1, 1950 the Bank sold, to a group
due 1953-1962 were sold. The net proceeds from    of leading Swiss banks and the Bank for Interna-
the sale of these bonds, together with such other    tional Settlements, a new issue of 21/2%o Swiss
funds as were needed, were used for the redemp-    Franc SeriaL Bonds of 1950 in the aggregate prin-
tion on February 17, 1950 of $100,000,000 of the    cipal amount of 28,500,000 Swiss francs, the
Bank's Ten Year 21/4To Bonds due July 15, 1957    equivalent of approximately  $6,600,000. The
at 101%o of their principal amount and accrued    bonds were sold at 100 and accrued interest and
interest.                                         mature in semi-annual installments from March 1,
This was the first time that an issue of Bank   1953 to March 1, 1956.
bonds was sold by competitive bidding to under-     No other sales of direct or guaranteed obliga-
writers.  The method proved successful.  Bids    tions were made, since the funds available for
were submitted by four syndicates with an aggre-    lending were ample for inmmediate needs.
gate membership of 393 institutions, of which 63    On June 30, 1950 the Bank had outstanding
were commercial banks and 330 investment bank-    approximately $260,600,000 of direct obligations
ing firms. The highest bid was submitted by a    payable as follows:
syndicate headed by Halsey, Stuart & Co., Inc.,       Payable in U.S. Dollars
and the First National Bank of Chicago, which         $100,000,000 2% Serial Bonds of 1950 due
included 37 banks and 99 investment banking             195 3-1962.
$150,ooo,000 Twenty-five Year 3%o Bonds due
firms located in 25 states and the District of Co-      July 15, 1972.
lumbia. As a result of their bid the average net      Payable in Sviis Francs
interst cst o the ssueto te Ban  is .937 perSw. Fr. 17,000,000 21/2%o Serial Bonds of 1948,
interest cost of the issue to the Bank is 1.93% per     due  1953-54  (equivalent to  approximately
annum, which represents a substantial net interest      $4,000,000).
saving.                                               Sw. Fr. 28,500,000 2½/2%  Serial Bonds of 1950,
due 1953-56 (equivalent to approximately
The participation of commercial banks in the          $6,600,000).
underwriting of the Bank's obligations was a di-    There were also outstanding, payable in United
rect result of legislation enacted by the United  States dollars and bearing the Bank's uncondition-
States Congress in 1949, which authorized na-    al guarantee of principal and interest, $16 million
tional banks and state member banks of the Fed-    Kingdom of Belgium 37% Sinking Fund Bonds due
eral Reserve System to deal in and underwrite ob-    March 1, 1969 and $10,200,000 (net after repay-
ligations issued by the Bank, and made securities    ment of $1,800,000) 21/27%  Guaranteed Serial
issued or fully guaranteed by the Bank exempted   Mortgage Notes of Netherlands shipping com-
securities under the securities acts of the United  panies, due semi-annually July 15, 1950 through
States. This legislation has materially contributed    July 15, 1958.
MARKET FOR THE BANK'S OBLIGATIONS
At present the principal investors in the Bank's   the Bank is continuing its efforts to broaden
bonds are United States savings banks, life insur-    their market itn the United States. Activities in
ance companies and commercial banks, in the or-   this direction include frequent personal calls on
der named. Although the Bank's obligations are    investment institutions, attendance at meetings
now generally considered seasoned investments,    of investment groups, and periodic information
40]



conferences at the Bank's headquarters in Wash-    made in the American market for the account of
ington, all designed to acquaint investors with the    Netherlands clients, who exchange the bonds for
Bank's policies and operations and the security    Trustee Certificates.
behind its obligations. To facilitate this program,  The Bank's outstanding dollar obligations have
a branch of the Marketing Department was estab-    been listed on the Mexico City Stock Exchange
lished for six months in the Middle West with    and have been ruled eligible as investments for
headquarters in the Federal Reserve Bank Build-    banks, insurance companies and other credit in-
ing, Chicago, Illinois.                         stitutions. The Central Bank of Mexico has also
The Bank is also giving increasing attention    authorized domestic and foreign banks operating
to the development of markets for the Bank's ob-   in Mexico to use part of their foreign exchange
ligations outside the United States. Achievement    reserve deposits maintained with the Central Bank
of success in that field is handicapped by the con-    for the acquisition of International Bank bonds.
tinuing difficulty in obtaining exact information on    Mexican banks are required to maintain a 25%o
the status of the Bank's obligations under the in-    reserve with the Central Bank against all dollar
vestment laws of member countries and the equal-    deposits and other foreign exchange liabilities;
ly difficult problem of initiating applicable legisla-    under the new ruling one-fifth of this reserve may
tion for the classification of Bank securities as    now be held in the form of International Bank
eligible investments for banks, insurance compa-    obligations. To implement this ruling the Central
nies and similar institutions. Some encouraging    Bank of Mexico purchased International Bank
progress, however, has been made. The instances    bonds in the open market for resale to banks in
known to the Bank where its member govern-    Mexico.
ments have taken action during the past year to   The Chilean authorities have ruled that foreign
broaden the market for the Bank's securities are as    and domestic banks in Chile may invest up to 25%o
follows:                                        of their capital and surplus in bonds delivered
The Netherlands Government has facilitated    to the Bank pursuant to Chilean loan agreements
the introduction of International Bank bonds in    with the Bank.
the Amsterdam market by exempting from requi-     The Central Bank of Cuba has ruled that the
sitioning Netherlands Trustee Certificates issued    obligations of the Bank payable in dollars or in
against the 25-year 3%o bonds due 1972 owned    any currency convertible into gold are eligible
by Dutch nationals up to a maximum amount of    investments for banks in Cuba, and, pursuant to
$5,000,000. As a result, the Netherlands Trustee    such ruling, the bonds so held are exempt from
Certificates have been listed on the Amsterdam    the Cuban tax on the exportation of money and
Stock Exchange and purchases of bonds have been    the holding of balances abroad.
MISCELLANEOUS
Management and Organization                     1949. Mr. Knapp was formerly Director of the
Mr. William L. Ayers, who had been a Con-    Office of Financial and Development Policy,
sultant to the Bank since February 1, 1948, was    United States Department of State.
appointed Director of Public Relations as of      Mr. Walter Hill was appointed Special Repre-
November 1, 1949. He succeeded Mr. Drew         sentative of the Bank in Paris on October 17,
Dudley who was appointed Director of Public    1949, succeeding Mr. J. Grant Forbes who retired
Relations for Europe.                           on December 31, 1949. Mr. Royall Tyler, senior
Mr. J. Burke Knapp became Assistant Director    representative of the Bank's Treasurer in Europe,
of the Economic Department on December 12,   retired on September 28, 1949. The Bank wishes
[ 41 ]



to record its appreciation of the valuable services    Council of the United Nations with responsibility
performed by Mr. Forbes and Mr. Tyler.         for directing and coordinating the expanded pro-
Mr. G. M. Ventimiglia was appointed Mar-    gram  of technical assistance approved by the
keting Representative of the Bank for Europe and    Council at its Ninth Session. The Bank will not
will take up his duties at the Paris office early in    receive any of the funds which are being made
August. Mr. George L. Martin, President of    available to the United Nations and other spe-
the investrnent banking firm of Martin, Burns &  cialized agencies for this program; consequently
Corbett, Inc., Chicago, took leave of absence from  it is not a full member of the Technical Assistance
his firm from January through July, 1950 to head    Board.  However, Bank representatives partic-
the temporary Middle Western branch office of    ipate in all meetings of the Board and arrange-
the Marketing Department. The Bank wishes to    ments have been made for full coordination of the
express its appreciation of the valuable contribu-   technical assistance activities of the Bank with
tion rendered by Mr. Martin during this period,    those being undertaken by the United Nations
On October 21 and December 31, 1949, respec-    and other specialized agencies under the expanded
tively, the Bank closed two small offices which    program.
had been maintained in The Hague and Copen-       The Bank was also represented at meetings
hagen to supervise the end-use of loans made    of the United Nations General Assembly, the
to the Netherlands and Denmark. Their func-    Economic and Social Council of the United Na-
tions were transferred to the Paris Office.    tions and its subsidiary bodies.  the partiipation
The only change made during the past year in    of the Bank in the work of the Fourth Session of
the functions of the Bank's various departments,   the  BaComin   on  onomic Developmen
as outlined in previous Annual Reports, has been    othe Sunite  Nations  of particu   interent
the assignment to the Staff Office of the responsi-  . t
bility to coordinate activities related to technical    During the couse of the meeting the members of
the Sub-Commission were invited to Washington
assistance and to pnas   and arra.ge for technical   to discuss informally with the staff of the Bank
assisofnce Agstio 1, 1950 the Stff of theBk   problems related to economic development. This
was the first time that members of a United Na-
consisted of 410 regular members of 29 nation-    tions body have come to the Bank for the purpose
alities.
of discussing subjects of cormmon interest in the
Relations with Other International              international field.
Bank representatives attended various meet-
Organizations                              ings of the specialized agencies and other inter-
During the year under review the Bank has    national organizations, including  FAO, ILO,
continued to maintain close relations with the    UNESCO, the Organization of American States
International Monetary Fund, the United Nations    and the Bank for International Settlements. FAO
and other international organizations.          and WHO have given the Bank valuable coopera-
The President of the Bank attended several   tion by seconding or nominating experts for vari-
meetings of the Administrative Committee on    ous Bank missions. As has already been noted,
Coordination (ACC) and representatives of the    the FAO has agreed to join with the Bank in
Bank attended meetings of various committees    sponsoring and staffing a mission to Uruguay to
and subcommittees of the ACC. The most im-    survey its agricultural development needs.
portant task undertaken by the ACC was the        The Bank is sponsoring jointly with FAO, the
establishment of the Technical Assistance Board,    United Nations and the Government of Pakistan,
which was charged by the Economic and Social    a Training Institute on Economic Appraisal of
[ 42 ]



Development Projects (Asian Center on Agricul-   tions for membership have also been received
tural and Allied Projects), which is to be held    from Indonesia, Jordan and Sweden.
in Lahore during the latter part of 1950. A mem-
ber of the Bank's staff will serve as an instructor    Duties and Remuneration of Executive
at the Center for several weeks.                   Directors
The first report, dated September 13, 1949, of
Advisory Council                               the Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Governors
Pursuant to Resolution No. 45 of the Board of    to Consider Provisions Relating to Duties and
Governors, adopted at the Fourth Annual Meet-    Remuneration of Executive Directors, as amended
ing, the Executive Directors have studied the or-    by the Committee's Second Report, dated Janu-
ganization, selection, duties and other matters    ary 27, 1950, was approved by the Board of Gov-
relating to the Advisory Council. Their report   ernors by mail vote on March 30, 1950, and the
and recommendations are being submitted as a    Committee dissolved. The amendments to the
separate report to the Board of Governors.     By-Laws of the Bank recommended by this Com-
mittee will be in effect on and after the date of
Training Program                               the Fifth Annual Meeting.
The Bank has continued the training program  Financial Statements and Reports
which was inaugurated in 1949. For the second
course under this program, beginning in January  Attached as Appendices A to G, inclusive, are
1950, eight persons were selected, one each from  a Balance Sheet showing the financial position of
the following member countries: Ecuador, India,   the Bank as of June 30, 1950, a Comparative
Iran, Italy, Lebanon, Norway, United Kingdom   Statement of Income and Expenses for the Fiscal
and United States. The Bank plans to continue    Years ended June 30, 1949 and June 30, 1950, an
this program and is now  in process of selecting a    Opinion of Independent Auditor, and a number
third group  to begin training in January 1951.    of schedules giving further details concerning the
Five of the seven trainees who participated in the    assets and liabilities, capital and financial opera-
first course have remained with the Bank and are   tions of the Bank.
now on the permanent staff.                    Administrative Budget
Membership, Subscriptions and Voting Power       There is attached as Appendix H  the Ad-
Poland withdrew from the Bank on March 14    rministrative Budget of the Bank for the fiscal year
1950. With the adsmission of Pakistan on July    ending June 30, 1951. This budget has been
11, 1950 membership in the Bank has remained    prepared by the President and approved by the
at 48. The Bank's total subscribed capital has    Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19
been increased from $8,348.5 million as of Au-    of the By-Laws of the Bank. A special report
gust 20, 1949 to $8,448.5 million as of August    on the Budget is being submitted to the Board
1, 1950, subject to a reduction of $125 million    of Governors at the Fifth Annual Meeting.
when the shares subscribed by Poland are re-
purchased by the Bank. The period in which    Additional Reports to Board of Governors
Liberia and Haiti may accept membership was      In addition to this Annual Report, the follow-
extended by the Executive Directors to September   ing reports are being submitted for consideration
30, 1950. The application for membership by    of the Board of Governors at the Fifth Annual
Ceylon was approved on July 31, 1950. Applica-    Meeting:
[43]



1) Report on Establishment of Reserve and    has already been made, there are included in this
Disposition of Surplus;                   report for the information of the Board of Gov-
2) Report on the Advisory Council;           ernors the following appendices:
3) Report on Third Regular Election of Execu-  Appendix I-Voting Power and Subscriptions
tive Directors;                                          of Member Countries as of Au-
4) Report on the Administrative Budget; and                 gust 1, 1950.
5) Report on Decisions of Executive Directors  AppendixJ-Governors and Alternates as of
Interpreting Artiles of Agreemnent.                      August 1, 1950.
Appendix K-Executive Directors and Alter-
Appendices                                                    nates and their Voting Power
In addition to the appendices containing the                as of August 1, 1950.
financial statements and reports and the adminis-  Appendix L-Principal Officers of the Bank as
trative budget of the Bank, to which reference                of August 1, 1950.
[44]



I                                                                      £                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II       II



APPENDRX A
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1950
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financia Statements)
ASSETS
Due from Banks and Otber Depositories (APPENDIX D)
-NOTE A
Member currency-United States        ...................                      4,458,168
Member currency-other than United States ...........                        113,836,979
Non-member currency .......       .....................                       6,170,061    $ 124,465,208
Investment Securities
United States Government obligations
($434,924,900 face amnount at cost) . ............                     434,600,782
Accrued interest ............... .................                            2,278,298       436,879,080
Receivable on Account of Subscribed Capital (APPEN-
DIX E)
Payable in member currency-United States
Calls on subscription to capital stock-Payment de-
ferred .....................................                              4,915,000
Payable in member currency-other than United States
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes...  $ 777,940,114
Amounts required to maintain value of currency hold-
ings-NOTE B ................ .............             3,300,468       781,240,582
Payable in non-member currency
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes ...                     22,275,000       808,430,582
Loans Outstanding Held by Bank-(APPENDIX C)-
NOTES C and D                                                                                 711,409,847
Accrued Interest, Commitment and Service Charges on
Loans-NOTE D                                                                                     5,422,147
Miscellaneous Receivables and Other Assets                                                           333,453
Special Reserve Fund Assets-NOTE E
Due from Banks-member currency-United States ....                        $       47,052
Investment securities-United States Government obliga-
tions ($12,210,900 face amount at cost)   ...........                      12,210,900
Accrued loan commissions-NOTE D ................                              1,479,253         13,737,205
Staff Retirement Plan Assets
(Segregated and Held In Trust)                                                                   1,082,507
Total Assets .........................                                          $2,101,760,029
1 46



APPENDIX A
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1950
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statementr)
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, induding
$2,900,063 bond interest   .......................                                      3,273,280
*        Collections on loans in advance of due dates ...........                                     240,171
Undisbursed balance of loans
On loans held by Bank ..........................                  $ 120,172,757
On loans represented by obligations of borrowers sold
under guarantee ...........  .................                       5,627,066      125,799,823
Bonds outstanding
Payable in United States Dollars-NOTE F
2%o Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1953-62 .$ 100,000,000
Twenty-Five Year 3%o Bonds, due July 15, 1972. .  150,000,000    $ 250,000,000
Payable in Swiss Francs
21/2 go Swiss Franc Serial Bonds of 1948, due 1953-
54 (Swiss Francs 17,000,000) .$   3,955,788
21/2 % Swiss Franc Serial Bonds of 1950, due 1953-
56 (Swiss Francs 28,500,000) .6,631,763                           10,587,551      260,587,551
Bonds called for redemption not presented                         $     260,692
Less funds on deposit with Fiscal Agent therefor ...                  260,692
Special Reserve-NoTE E                                                                     13,737,205
Staff Retirement Plan Reserve                                                               1,082,507
Capital (APPENDIX E)-NOTE G
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 83,485 shares .$8,348,500,000
Less-Uncanled portion of subscriptions-NOTE H.    6,678,800,000    $1,669,700,000
Accumulated net income-NOTE L
At June 30, 1949-Allocated to surplus .$  13,641,094
The twelve months ended June 30, 1950-Unallocated   13,698,398        27,339,492     1,697,039,492
Contingent Liability-Obligations of Borrowers Out-
standing Sold under Guarantee-NOTE C $20,572,934
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital...                                 $2,101,760,029
147 1



KPPENDIX B
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the Fiscal Years
Ended June 30, 1949 and June 30, 1930
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Phu,widJ Stwtments)
Jody 1-1*.e 50
1948-1949             1949-1950
Income
Interest earned on investments .............................................. $ 4,893,360   $ 5,152,517
Income from loans:
Interest  .............................................................                                                    15,850,003            17,670,427
Commitment charges .                  ..................................................                                        757,110    2,491,707
Commissions .               .........................................................                                       4,989,210    5,663,064
Service  charges  ...............                      ........................................                                  73,323              141,281
Other income  .               .........................................................                                              4,617                  8,133
Gross Income  ..................................................                                               $26,567,623           $31,127,129
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commission appropriated to Special Reserve (NOTE E).                                                4,989,210             5,663,064
Gross Income Less Reserve Deduction  .............................                                             $21,578,413           $25,464,065
Expenses
Administrative expenses:
Personal services .......................................................                                                   2,667,476   3 2,672,630
Expense allowance-Executive Directors and Alternates  ........................                                                   12,504                12,194
Fees and compensation  ................                         .................................                              160,542               334,958
Representation  .          .......................................................                                               31,187                46,713
Travel ............                                                                                                             332,670  437,257
Supplies and material .............                                                          .............                      26,884                  26,954
Rents and  utility  services  .................                      ..............................                            330,151               336,466
Communication  services  .               ...............................................                                        80,030                 89,522
Furniture  and equipment .. I .                  ...........................................                                     33,105                28,540
Motor vehides  .......................................................                                                            6,649                  5,335
Books and library services  .................                        ..............................                              63,821                59,707
Printing and binding .............-........                                                                                      34,115                36,764
Contributions to staff benefits ............                        ................................                           270,577               266,126
Insurance ............................................................                                                           11,312                14,644
Handling  and storage of gold  ............                           ...............................                              7,046
Other expenses ........................................................                                                              538                 2,201
Total Administrative Expenses  .........                          ............................                    4,068,607          $  4,370,011
Interest on bonds ........................................................                                                      6,848,895             6,811,798
Bond registration, issuance and other financial expenses including redemption premium
less premium  on sale of bonds  .............                          ..............................                            50,664              583,858
Gross Expenses . .................................................   $10,968,166   $11,765,667
Net Income .............................................................                                                        $10,610,247           $13,698,398
[48 ]






APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-fune 30, 1950
EXPRESED IN UNTED STATES CURENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Date of
Borrower and Guarantor                                  P.rogram or Project                    Loax Agrueem
Loans Granted and Egective
Kingdom of Belgimm                                 Equipment for steel an,d power industries              Mar. 1, 1949
Loan Guaranteed by United States of Brazil
Brazilian Traction, Light and Power Company, Ltd. Electric power development and telephone equipment    Jan. 27, 1949
Loans Guaranteed by Republic of Chile
Fomento and Endesa                               Electric powe. di½nyelonmmt                           Mar. 25, 1948
Fomento                                          Agricultural  cdneiry                                 Mbr. 25, 1948
Loan Guaranteed by Republic of Colombia
Caja de Credito                                  Ag'ric* tu_                                                19  949
Kingdom of Denmark                                 Ea,oument and           fcf icotae=ctLion and de
ve1ro'5 meAug. 22, 1947
Republic of Finland                                Equipment: fz _rZ1 _     &uCUo U                       Oct i .  949
Loan Guaranteed by Republic of Finland
Bank of Finland                                  Elec. -c  5  e 'c"ment and ec 'pment fo wood-
k 1g t  - erte p>ovder prod-tion  Aug. 1, 1949
Loan GuaFanteed by Republic of France
Credit National                                  E qzaia' Mai; i         . scn ead de-
-7£,-w c                                            Mcy 9, 194
Republic of India                                  Raiva7   e                                             AU.. 18, 1949
Agricultu,a, d. ery                                  Sept. 29. 1949
Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg                          Equipmeat _'0- stUai m-""  cd c' r.ilroads             Aug. 28, 1947
Loans Guaranteed by United Mexican Stales
Financiera and Comision                          E--an. 6, 1949
Financiera and Comision                          E           ec 'eleomw                                 an.. 6, 1949
Mexican Light and Power Company, Ltd.            Elec.rc otn,-   t-. . 28, 1950
Kingdom of the Netherlands                         Equipmeintr                                 McrruCtc    d de-
veloprneo                                           Aug. 7, 1947
Equipm-e and matcrias ifor reconstruction and de-
velaonmd ieana  Loan Agreement)                     May 25, 1948
Loans Guaranteed by Kingdom of the Netherlands
N. V. Stoomvaart Mij. "Nederland"                Purchase cS,S Raki amd SS. Eoebiah                    July 15, 1948
N. V. Vereenigde Schvrt. Mij.                    Purchase of S.S        fec                            Julv 15, 1948
N. V. Ned.-Amer. Stoomvaart-Mij.
"Holland-Amerika Lijn"                         Purchase of. S.. ' Albiassezdi;                       July 15. 1948
N. V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd                        PRrchase of S.S. 7- isiand and S.S. Drente            luly 15, 1948
Herstelbank                                      Equipment lo:  -c,'tzuction and modernizatior. of
,;Dsnlcu   -a la- i.ant                            3y 26, 194-
Federal Peopie' Republic of Yugoslavia ir.q,s                     -'P-,-'-                                Oc 7 1949.
Sub-Totals-Effective Loans
Loans Granted-Not Yet Effective
Loan Guaranteed by United States of Brazil
Sao Francisco Hidro Eiec Co.                                    i- aV 26. 1950
Loan Guaranteed by Republic of El Salvador
Comision del Rio Lemnpa                          Electric   /ek:7ce.or. ent                            Dec. 14, 1949
Republic of India                                   >zz       -V            i                             .Apr. is, 1950
Kingdom of Iraq                                      ""-'-'-'-"'- ^                                      June 159 1950
Sub-Total-Loans Not Effective
Total Loans Granted-NOTES C and D
150 1



APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1950
ESPRESSED IN UNI  STATES CURNCY
(See Notes to Financidl Statements)
Obligations of
Borrower Sold
ns erest                     Pri,cipId     Witb Banks
Rase                       Payments     Gurawnee Less     Loamns         Pricipa       Undisbmsd
(Incladidg      Principal  and Cancellation  Principal    Oxtstanding       Amout         Blaee of
MdArities   Commission)      Amount    by Borrowers      Paymets      Held by Bank      Disbursed       Loas
1953-1969     4-1/4%s     $ 16,000,000    S   -        $16,000,000    $    -         $ 10,372,934    $  5,627,066
1953-1974     4-1/2%s       75,000,000       -             -            75,000,000     36,827,367     38,172,633
1953-1968     4-1/29%       13,500,000       -             -            13,500,000      3,017,049      10,482,951
1950-1955     3-3/4%         2,500,000       -             -             2,500,000      2,500,000         -
1952-1956     3-1/2%o        5,000,000       -             -             5,000,000      2,680,840       2,319,160
195-3-1972    4-1/4%        40,000,000       -             -            40,000,000     40,000,000         -
1950-1951      3%            2,300,000      153,132        -             2,146,868        301,594       1,998,406
1953-1964      4%7          12,500,000       -             -            12,500,000      2,145,106      10,354,894
1952-1977     4-1/4%7      250,000,000       -             -           250,000,000    250,000,000        -
1950-1964      4%9          34,000,000     1,200,000       -            32,800,000     27,960,755       4,839,245
1952-1956     3-1/2%        10,000,000       -             -            10,000,000      3,197,827       6,802,173
1949-1972     4-1/4%        12,000,000       337,021       -            11,662,979     11,761,983         -
1953-1973     4-1/2%7       24,100,000       -             -            24,100,000      7,196,976      16,903,024
July 1, 1950    4-1/2%       10,000,000    10,000,000        -              -              -               -
1953-1975     4-1/2%        26,000,000       -             -            26,000,000      5,542,741      20,457,259
1954-1972     4-1/4%7      191,044,212       -             -           191,044,212    191,044,212         -
1953-1954     4-1/4%o        3,955,788       -             -             3,955,788      3,955,788         -
- 1949-1958    3-9/16%        4,000,000       600,000      3,400,000         -            4,000,000        -
1949-1958     3-9/16%        2,000,000       300,000      1,700,000        -            2,000,000         -
1949-1958     3-9/167%       2,000,000       300,000      1,700,000        -            2,000,000         -
1949-1958     3-91169%       4,000,000      600,000      3,400,000         -            4,000,000         -
1952-1964       4%          15,000,000     6,200,000       -             8,800,000      1,271,348       7,528,652
1950-1951       3%           2,700,000       300,000        -            2,400,000      2,385,640        314,360
$757,600,000    $19,990,153    $26,200,000    $711,409,847    $614,162,160    $125,799,823
1954-1975     4-1/4%      $ 15,000,000
a954-1975     4-1/4%        12,545,000
1955-1970      4%7          18,500,000
1956-1965     3-3/4%        12,800,000
$ 58,845,000
$816,445,000
r S1 1



APPENDIX D
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bansk-une 30, 1950
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Total
Amouxt Expressed                                Expressed is
Unit of       In Member Currency       Rat of Exchange         United States
Cu-rrency         (Restricted)           (Note A)                 Dollars
Members' Currencies:
Australia               Pound                160,839         $ =      0.446428         S   360,280
Austria                 Schilling           1,293,408        $ =      14.40                 89,820
Belgium                 Franc              17,623,226        $ =     50.00                 352,465
Bolivia                 Boliviano            516,200         $ =     60.00                   8,603
Brazil                  Cruzeiro         349,481,654         t =     18.50               18,890,900
Canada                  DoLlar                43,498         $ =       1.10                  39,544
Chile                   Peso              195,071,196        $ =     31.00                6,292,619
China                   Gold Yuan         21,581,589         $ =     20.00                1,079,080
Colombia                Peso              12,277,707        $ =        1.949981           6,296,321
Costa Rica              Colon              2,014,453        $         5.615                358,763
Cuba                    Peso                  62,975         $ =       1.00                 62,975
Czechoslovakia          Koruna             11,068,733       $        50.00                 221,375
Denmark                 Krone                947,178        $         6.90714              137,130
Dominican Republic      Peso                   3,191         $         1.00                   3,191
Ecuador                 Sucre               7,759,986        $ =      13.50                574,814
Egypt                   Pound                766,363         $=       0.3482427           2,200,658
El Salvador             Colon                439,789        $         2.50                 175,916
Ethiopia                Dollar              1,323,271        $        2.48447              532,617
Finland                 Markka           929,725,054         $       136.00               6,836,214
France                  Franc            178,075,133        $       214.392                830,605
Greece                  Drachma        22,500,000,000        $     5,000.00               4,500,000
Guatemala                Quetzal             354,817         $         1.00                354,817
Honduras                Lempira                -            $    -   2.00
Iceland                 Krona              2,914,030         $       16.2857               178,932
India                   Rupee              3,292,112        $ =       4.761904             691,343
Iran                    Rial                1,795,439        $ =     32.25                  55,673
Iraq                    Dinar                  2,729         $        0.357143               7,642
Italy                   Lira            7,286,819,669        $      225.00               32,385,865
Lebanon                 Pound               1,769,679        $_        2.19148             807,527
Luxembourg              Franc                770,635         $ =     50.00                   15,413
Mexico                  Peso              101,145,392        $ =      8.65               11,693,109
Netherlands             Guilder             1,895,939        3 =      3.80                 498,931
Nicaragua               Cordoba              720,000         $ =       5.00                 144,000
Norway                  Krone                6267268         $        7.14286               87,678
Panama                  Balboa                35,995         $ =       1.00                 35,995
Paraguay                Guarani              773,109         $         3.09                250,197
Peru                    Sol                  161.150         $ =       6.50                  24,792
Philippine Republic     Peso                2,387,797        $        2.00                1,193,898
Syria                   Pound                 24,893         $        2.19148                11,359
Thailand                Baht               28,005,747        S       12.50                2,240,460
Turkey                  Lira                 140,511         $ =       2.80                  50,182
Union- of South Africa  Pound                 63,320         $ =      0.357143              177,295
United Kingdom          Pound                912,718         $ =      0.357143            2,555,610
United States           Dollar               780,476                None                   780,476
Uruguay                 Peso               2,857,648         $         1.5190495          1,881,208
Venezuela               Bolivar            4,568,251         $ =      3.35                1,363,657
Yugoslavia              Dinar            359,504,777        $        50.00                7,190,096
Restricted Currency (NOTE 1) .........                        $114,520,045
Unrestricted Currency  (United States, United Kingdom, Belgiurn,
Canada) ..................................................    3,775,102
Non-Members' Currencies:                                                                $118,295,147
Swiss Francs .................  $5,950,132
Polish Zlotys (NOTE G) ................                                 219,929           6,170,061
Total (Nori J) .$124,465,208
f52]



i                                  I                                   I                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I             I       I       *      



APPENDDI B
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-June 30, 1950
BXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Financial Statements)
Amounts Paid In
Subscriptions                               (Note A)
In Currency of
Member Otber
Amount               Unitd States         Than United
Member                        Shares         (Notes G & K)             Dollars           States Dollars
1 Australia                        2,000        $ 200,000,000          $ 4,000,000          S   360,368
2 Austria                           500             50,000,000            1,000,000               90,000
3 Belgium                          2,250           225,000,000            4,500,000            2,344,422
4  Bolivia                           70              7,000,000              140,000                8,913
S Brazil                           1,050           105,000,000            2,100,000           18,900,000
6 Canada                           3,250           325,000,000            6,500,000            9,857,727
7, Chile                            350             35,000,000              700,000            6,300,000
8  China                           6,000           600,000,000            9,000,000            1,080,000
9 Colombia                          350             35,000,000              700,000            6,300,000
10 Costa Rica                         20              2,000,000               40,000              360,000
11  Cuba                             350             35,000,000              700,000               63,000
12 Czechoslovakia                   1,250           125,000,000            1,875,000              225,000
13 Denmark                           680             68,000,000            1,020,000              158,595
14 Dominican Republic                 20              2,000,000              40,000                 3,600
15 Ecuador                            32              3,200,000              64,000               576,000
16 ERypt                             533             53,300,000            1,066,000            2,228,963
17 ElSalvador                         10              1,000,000               20,000              180,000
18 Ethiopia                           30              3,000,000               60,000              540,000
19  Finland                          380             38,000,000              760,000            6,840,000
20  France                          5,250           525,000,000           10,500,000              979,719
21  Greece                           250             25,000,000              375,000            4,500,000
22  Guatemala                         20              2,000,000               40,000              360,000
23 Honduras                           10              1,000,000               20,000                1,800
24 Iceland                            10              1,000,000               20,000              180,000
25  India                           4,000           400,000,000            8,000,000              721,800
26 Iran                              336             33,600,000              672,000               60,480
27  Iraq                              60              6,000,000              120,000               10,800
28 Italy                            1,800           180,000,000            3,600,000           32,400,000
29 Lebanon                            45              4,500,000               90,000              810,000
30  Luxembourg                       100             10,000,000              200,000               18,000
31  Mexico                           650             65,000,000            1,300,000           11,700,000
32 Netherlands                      2,750           275,000,000            5,500,000              552,631
33 Nicaragua                           8                800,000               16,000              144,000
34 Norway                            500             50,000,000            1,000,000               90,000
35 Panama                              2                200,000                4,000               36,000
36 Paraguay                           14              1,400,000               28,000              252,000
37 Peru                              175             17,500,000              350,000               31,500
38  Philippine Republic              150             15,000,000              300,000            1,200,000
39 Poland (NOTE G)                  1,250           125,000,000            1,875,000              225,000
40  Syria                             65              6,500,000              130,000               11,700
41  Thailand                         125             12,500,000              250,000            2,250,000
42  Turkey                           430             43,000,000              860,000               77,400
43  Union of South Africa           1,000           100,000,000            2,000,000              180,000
44  United Kingdom                 13,000          1,300,000,000          26,000,000            4,050,000
45  United States                  31,750          3,175,000,000         635,000,000
46  Uruguay                          105             10,500,000              210,000             1,890,000
47 Venezuela                         105             10,500,000              210,000            1,365,000
48  Yugoslavia                       400             40,000,000              600,000            7,200,000
83,485        $8,348,500,000         t733,555,000         $127,714.418
[54]



APPENDIX E
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power-June 30, 1950
EXPRESED IN UNTElD STATES CURBENCY
(See Notes to Financia Statements)
AmaunsA PAd la                 Amevnts
(Net* A)                   Required to            Amounts
MaNntain             Poypent of
Non-l terest-           Value of              Wbich is              Subject to Cau
Bearing, Non-           Currency              Postponed             to Meet Obliga-        Number
Negotsiable            Holdings                Until                dons of Bank             of
Demand Notes            (Note B)              June 1951               (Note H)               Votes
$ 35,639,632           $   -                 S   -                $ 160,000,000              2,250   1
8,910,000               -                                          40,000,000               750   2
38,155,578               -                                         180,000,000             2,500   3
873,180              377,907                                       5,600,000              320   4
-                     -                     -                    84,000,000             1,300   5
48,642,273                                                         260,000,000             3,500   6
-                      -                    -                    28,000,000              600   7
106,920,000                                  3,000,000              480,000,000             6,250   8
-          -                                -                    28,000,000              600   9
^   -                 -                     -                     1,600,000               270  10
6,237,000               -                     -                    28,000,000              600  11
22,275,000               -                   625,000               100,000,000             1,500  12
12,081,405               -                   340,000                54,400,000              930  13
356,400                -                    -                      1,600,000              270  14
-                    -                    -                     2,560,000               282  15
4,442,476            2,922,561                -                    42,640,000              783  16
_ -                  -                       800,000               260  17
-  -                  2,400,000              280  18
-                               -30,400,000                                              630  19
93,520,281                                     -                   420,000,000             5,500  20
-                   125,000               20,000,000               500  21
= -       -                                 -                     1,600,000              270  22
178,200                -                    -                       800,000               260  23
3                      _                    -                       800,000              260  24
71,278,200               -                     -                   320,000,000             4,250  25
5,987,520               -                     -                    26,880,000              586  26
1,069,200               -                     -                     4,800,000               310  27
_ -                                          -                  144,000,000             2,050  28
_                      _                    _                     3,600,000               295  29
1,782,000               -                     -                     8,000,000              350  30
-                     -                     -                    52,000,000               900  31
48,947,369               -                     -                   220,000,000             3,000  32
_                      _                    _                       640,000               258  33
8,910,000                _                    _                    40,000,000              750  34
_                      _                    _                       160,000               252  35
_                      _                    _                     1,120,000               264  36
3,118,500               -                     -                    14,000,000              425  37
1,500,000               -                     -                    12,000,000              400  38
22,275,000               -                    625,000              100,000,000                0   39
1,158,300               -                     -                     5,200,000              315  40
_                      _                    _                    10,000,000               375  41
7,662,600               -                     -                    34,400,000               680  42
17,820,000               -                     -                    80,000,000             1,250  43
229,950,000               -                     -                  1,040,000,000           13,250  44
_                      _                    _                 2,540,000,000            32,000  45
_                      _                    _                     8,400,000               355  46
525,000                _                     _                    8,400,000               355  47
-                     -                   200,000                32,000,000              650  48
*800,215,114           $3,300,468            4,915,000             $6,678,800,000           93,985
[ 55 ]



APPENDIX F
Notes to Financial Statements-June 30, 1950
NOTE A                                                   its own currency sufficient to maintain the value, as
Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars  of the time of initial subscription, of the amount of
have been translated into United States dollars:         the currency of such member which is held by the
(i) In the cases of 38 members, at the par values  Bank and derived from currency originally paid in to
(i)   unde   the   Intemational Monetar Fund        the Bank by the member uader Artide II, Section 7(i),
established under the International Monetary Fund      from currency referred to in Artide IV, Section 2(b),
Agreement as specified  in the Jule 1950 issue of      or from any additional currency furnished under the
"International Financial Statistics" published by the  provisions of the present paragraph, and which has not
International Monetary Fund; and                       been repurchased by the member for gold or for the
(ii) In the cases of the remaining 9 members (Aus-  currency of any member which is acceptable to the
tria, China, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, Peru, Thai-  Bank.
land and Uruguay), the par values of whose currencies    (b) Whenever the par value of a member's currency
are not so specified, at the rates used by such members  is increased, the Bank shall return to such member
in making capital payments.                            within a reasonable time an amount of that member's
(iii) In the cases of non-members, at the official  currency equal to the inctease in the value of the
rates announced by such governments.                   amount of such currency described in (a) above.
No representation is made that any of such currencies    (c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs
is convertible into any other of such currencies at any  may be waived by the Bank when a uniform propor-
rate or rates. See also Note B.                          tionate change in the par values of the currencies of
all its members is made by the Intemational Monetary
NOTE B                                                   Fund.
Payment due within a reasonable time under Artide
II, Section 9(a) from Bolivia and Egypt by reason of a  NOTE C
reduction in the established par values of such members'  The Bank has -sold under its guarantee $12,000,000
currencies. This Section provides as follows:          of 2¼%  serial notes and $16,000,000 of 3%  sinking
(a) Whenever (i) the par value of a member's    fund bonds received by the Bank in connection with its
currency is reduced, or (ii) the foreign exchange value    loan operations of which amounts a total of $1,800,000
of a member's currency has, in the opinion of the    has been retired. Of the total of $26,200,000 of obli.
Bank, depreciated to a significant extent within that  gations outstanding under guarantee $5,627,066 is re-
member's territories, the member shall pay to the    flected in the balance sheet as a direct liability subject
Bank within a reasonable time an additional amount of    to withdrawal.
NOTE D
The prinapal outstanding on loans disbursed, and the accrued charges for interest, commitment fee, service
charge and loan commission are payable in United States dollars except the following amounts for which the dollar
equivalent is shown:
Cur7eucy Payable
Swiss         Belgiax         Canadia       PoVds
Francs        PFfgus          DoUars        Sterling         Totd
Principal Outstanding .......  $ 4,667,587    $ 1,997,769    $ 9,818,182    $ 1,363,617    $ 17,847,155
Accrued Interest, Commitment
and Service Charges  ......       33,993          19,867        118,411          -              172,271
Accrued Loan Commissions             10,484          6,113         37,116          -               53,713
Totals ...............       4,712,064    $ 2,023,749    $ 9,973,709    $ 1,363,617    $ 18,073,139
The provisions referred to under Note B above are applicable to principal amounts outstanding on portions
of loans disbursed in the currencies there mentioned.  Payment by the member or the Bank of any amount re-
quired to be paid by reason of a change in par value or foreign exchange value will become due within a rea-
sonable time after repayment of each installment of principal is received by the Bank.
[ 56 ]



NOTE E                                                 the Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual payments
The amount of commissions received by the Bank on   on loans guaranteed by it. The United States and El
loans made or guaranteed by it is required under       Salvador have consented to loans in respect of all their
Article IV, Section 6 to be set aside as a special reserve  18%o. Belgium, Canada, Denrmark, Mexico, Paraguay
to be kept available for meeting obligations of the Baak  and the United Kingdom have so consented in respect
created by borrowing or by guaranteeing loans. On all    of a portion of their 18%o. Honduras has consented
loans granted to date the effective rate of commission is    to loans in respect of all its 187%  after January 1, 1951.
1%  per annum.                                         Costa Rica, Finland, France, Italy and Netherlands have
agreed in principle to loans in respect of their 18%0.
NOTE F                                                 (Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b))
As a sinking fund for the Twenty-Five Year Bonds,       TE
the Bank has agreed to purchase and retire or redeem   NO   J
bonds of said issue commencing July 15, 1958, in varying  The currencies of the several members and the notes
amounts calculated to retire 50%o of the total issue by  substituted for any part of such currencies are held on
maturity.                                              deposit with designated depositories in the territories
of the respective members.
NOTE G
On March 14, 1950 Poland withdrew from mem-         NOTE K
bership in the Bank. Under Artide VI, Section 4, the     In terrns of United States dollars of the weight and
Bank is obligated, as part of the settlement of accounts    fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
with Poland, to repurchase the 1,250 shares of Poland  NOTE L
at the value shown by the books of the Bank on the
date of withdrawal. No payment may be made to Po-        On July 27, 1950 the Executive Directors adopted
land until six months after the date of withdrawal.    the following resolution:
Although Poland's accounts will not be finally settled     "RESOLVED, that the net income of the Bank for
until after September 14, 1950, it is anticipated that the  the fiscal year ended June 30, 1950, after making
amount to be paid Poland for its shares will be less than  provision for any amount that shall be payable in
$25,000,000. The zloty currency and amounts due on       respect thereof on account of the repurchase by the
account of Poland's subscription will be applied in      Bank of the shares of Poland, and the net income
settlement.  Poland is no longer entitled to exercise    of the Bank accruing thereafter and until further
any voting power on its shares.                          action by the Executive Directors or the Board of
Governors shall be allocated to a reserve against losses
NOTE H                                                   on loans or guarantees made by the Bank. Such re-
Subject to call by the Bank only when required to      serve shall be established on the books of account of
meet the obligations of the Bank creatr d by borrowing   the Bank and shall be separate from the special reserve
or guaranteeing loans.                                   established under Section 6 of Article IV  of the
Articles of Agreement."
NOTE I                                                 and further recommended to the Board of Governors
These currencies are derived from the 18%  of the   that similar action be taken by the Board with respect
subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank which is    to net income previously allocated to surplus account.
payable in the currendes of the respective members.
Such 18%o may be loaned by the Bank, and funds re-     GENERAL
ceived by the Bank on account of principal of loans made  On July 11, 1950, Pakistan becamne a member of the
by the Bank out of such currencies may be exchanged for  Bank with a share subscription of $100,000,000. Haiti
other currencies or reloaned, only with the approval in    and Liberia have until September 30, 1950 to comply
each case of the member whose currency is involved;    with the terms and conditions of the respective resolu-
provided, however, that, if necessary, after the Bank's    tions of the Board of Governors authorizing admission
subscribed capital is entirely called, such currencies may,    to membership in the Bank with share subscriptions of
without restriction by the members whose currencies are  $2,000,000 and $500,000 respectively. Formal applica-
offered, be used or exchanged for the currencies required  tions for membership have been received from Ceylon,
to meet contractual payments of interest, other charges    Jordan and Sweden but final action on these applications
or amortization on the Bank's own borrowings or to meet    has not yet been taken by the Board of Governors.
f 57]



APPENDIX G
Opinion of Independent Auditor
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO.
1000 VERMONT AVENUE. N.W.
WASHINGTON 5, D.C.
August 7, 1950
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT,
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 1950.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted audit-
ing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financal staternents, with the notes thereto,
present fairly the financial position of the Bank at June 30, 1950,
expressed in United States currency, and the results of its operations
for the twelve months then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the
preceding year.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1950                         APPENDIC A
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses for the
Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 1949 and June 30, 1950   APPENDIX B
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1950                    APPENDIX C
Statement of Currencies Held by the Bank-June 30, 1950   APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting
Power-June 30, 1950                             APPENDIX B
Notes to Financial Statements                       APPENDix F
[ 58 ]



APPENDIX H
Administrative Budget
for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1951
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1951, as prepared by
the President and approved by the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws. For purposes
of comparison there are also outlined below the administrative expenses incurred during the fiscal years ended June
30, 1948, 1949 and 1950.
Actual Expenses
1948              1949               1950               1951
BANK STAFF
Personal Services ..........$.........  2,069,443      $2,377,602         $2,396,389         $2,605,997
Fees and Compensation ....... .......   106,855           159,694             20,273             30,000
Special Technical Services    ............  -                -               313,500           350,000
Representation .....................     24,015            20,739             38,534            42,500
Travel ............................    231,746            243,810            326,130            350,000
Supplies and Materials ....... ........    63,512          25,531             26,320             30,000
Rents and Utilities ......... .........   364,206         327,860            335,093           343,000
Communications .......... .........    84,150              78,733             88,564            94,000
Furniture and Equipment ...... ......    90,389            31,302             26,097             29,000
Motor Vehicles ........... .........     10,376             6,486              5,335              9,324
Books and Library Service ...... ......    47,795          63,821             59,707            60,750
Printing ..........................      72,715            32,638             35,436             40,000
Contributions to Staff Benefits ........   315,785        270,577            266,126           298,000
Insurance .........................    37,417              11,312             14,644             29,100
Handling and Storage of Gold ........    25,662              7,046            -                  -
Other Expenses    ....................    -                   538              2,201             -
Contingencies ........     . . .          -        -                          -                 100,000
Total .$3,544,066                                  $3,657,689         $3,954,349         $4,411,671
Office of Executive Directors .328,814                      325,336            322,804            287,500
Board of Governors and Advisory Council. .   176,002         85,582             92,858            227,000
Total Administrative Expenses   .      $4,048,882         $4,068,607        $4,370,011         $4,926,171
The initial Administrative Budget for the fiscal year 1950, excluding bond registration and isssuance expense, was
$4,125,369; an increase in this amount to $4,390,369 was approved by the Executive Directors on May 23, 1950.
Expenses for this period amounted to $4,370,011. In addition, $583,858 was expended during the year in paymeat
of bond registration, issuance and other financial expense.
Expenses for bond registration, issuance and other similar financial transactions have not been estimated for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1951, as the extent to which the Bank may borrow during this year is not known.
Experience during previous years indicates that these expenses, exdusive of commissions and premiums, will aver-
age about $125,000 for each $100 million of bonds which the Bank may issue and, also, that commnissions incident
to the sale of securities from the Bank's portfolio will average $2,500 for each million dollars of securities which the
Baatk may sell.
[ 59]



APPENDIX I
Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries *
As of August 1, 1950
VotiNg Power                                Subs c sPtons
Number                   Perceu            AswOxt (i)n               Percent
of                      of                Million                   of
MEMBER COUNTRIES                                                                      Votes                   Totd              of Dollars)               Totl
Australia  .................................                                          2,250                   2.36                  200.0                    2.40
Austria  ..................................                                             750                     .79                   50.0                     .60
Belgium    .................................                                          2,500                   2.63                  225.0                    2.71
Bolivia ..............................                                                  320                     .34                     7.0                   .08
Brazil  ..................................                                            1,300                   1.37                  105.0                    1.26
Canada ..................................                                             3,500                   3.68                  325.0                     3.91
Chile  ....................................                                             600                     .63                   35.0                     .42
China   ..................................                                           6,2S0                    6.56                  600.0                    7.21
Colombia .................................                                              600                     .63                   35.0                    .42
Costa Rica ........................                                                     270                     .28                     2.0                    .02
Cuba ...... .......................600.......                                                                   .63                   35.0                     .42
Czechoslovakia  ..................                   ..........                       1,500                   1.58                  125.0                    1.50
Denmark ....               .........................                                    930                     .98                   68.0                    .82
Dominican Republic ........................                                             270                     .28                     2.0                   .02
Ecuador ...... . ..............  ......                                                 282                     .30                     3.2                   .04
Egypt ..................................                                                783                     .82                   53.3                    .64
El Salvador .........................                              .                    260                     .27                     1.0                   .01
Ethiopia   ........................   ........                                          280                     .29                     3.0                    .04
Finland  ..................................                                             630                     .66                   38.0                     .46
France ..                            ...................                             5,500                    5.78                   525.0                   6.31
Greece ...................................                                              500                     .53                   25.0                     .30
Guatemala ......                    ....................                                270                     .28                     2.0                   .02
Honduras  ................................                                              260                     .27                     1.0                    .01
Iceland   ..................................                                            260                     .27                     1.0                    .01
India  ..................................                                            4,250                    4.46                  400.0                    4.81
Iran  ...................................                                               586                     .62                   33.6                     .40
Iraq  ...................................                                               310                     .33                     6.0                    .07
Italy   .............................                                                 2,050                   2.15                  180.0                    2.16
lebanon ...............................                                                 295                     .31                     4.5                    .05
Luxembourg .......                      .................                               350                     .37                   10.0                     .12
Mexico ...................                          ..........                          900                     .95                   65.0                    .78
Netherlands   . .............................                                         3,000                   3.15                  275.0                    3.30
Nicaragua  ................................                                             258                     .27                      .8                    .01
Norway ..................................                                               750                     .79                   50.0                    .60
Pakistan ....                 .......................                                 1,250                   1.31                  100.0                    1.20
Panama ....                  ........................                                   252                     .26                      .2
Paraguay  .................................                                             264                     .28                     1.4                    .02
Peru ....................................                                               425                     .45                   17.5                     .21
Philippine Republic  ..........                  ..............                         400                     .42                   15.0                     .18
Syria  ..................................                                               315                     .33                     6.5                    .08
ITailand  ..................   ..............                                           375                     .39                   12.5                     .15
Turkey   ..................................                                             680                     .71                   43.0                     .52
Union of South Africa .......................                                         1,250                   1.31                  100.0                    1.20
United Kingdom .........................                                            13,250                   13.91                1,300.0                  15.62
United States          ..............................                               32,000                  33.60                 3,175.0                  38.15
Uruguay    .................................                                            355                     .37                   10.5                    .13
Venezuela  ................................                                             355                     .37                   10.5                     .13
Yugoslavia ............................                                                 650                     .68                   40.0                    .48
Total ...............................                                        95,235                 100.00                 8,323.5                 100.00
=    .                                   _
* On March 14, 1950 Poland withdrew  from  membersh   in the  Bank  and  is therefore  not entitled  to  any  vote.  The  1,250
shares subsiribed by Poland to the capital stock of the                    arUe  to  be repurchaed  by the Bank  in  accordance with  Artcie  vi,
Section 4 of the Artices of Agreement
** Less than .005 percent.
[60 ]



APPENDIX J
Governors and Alternates
As of August 1, 1950
COUNTRY                                    GOVERNOR                             ALTERNATE
AUSTRALIA                           Arthur William Fadden                       N. J. 0. Makin
AusTmiA                             Eugen Margaretha                            Assen Hartenau
BELGIUM                             Jean van Houtte                             Maurice Frere
BOLIVIA                             Hector Ormachea Zalles                      Jaime Gutierrez Guerra
BRAZIL                              Francisco Alves dos Santos-Filho            Octavio Paranagua
CANADA                              D. C. Abbott                                R. B. Bryce
CHRE                                Arturo Maschke                              Fernando Illanes
CHINA                               Chia Kan Yen                                T. L. Soong
COLOMBIA                            Emilio Toro                                 Diego Mejia
COSTA RICA                          Angel Coronas                               Mario Fernandez
CUBA                                Luis Machado                                Joaquin E. Meyer
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                      Ladislav Biel                               Zikmund Konecny
DENMARK                             Holger Koed                                 Hakon Jespersen
DOmiNICAN REPUBLIC                 Jesus Maria Troncoso                         A. Alvarez Aybar
ECUADOR                             Luis Ernesto Borja                          Simon Canarte Barbero
EGYPT                               Ahmed Zaki Bey Saad                         A. Nazry Abdel Hamid
EL SALVADOR                         Catalino Herrera                            Manuel Melendez Valle
ETHIOPIA                            Jack Bennett
FINLAND                             J. A. Nykopp                                Ralf Torngren
FRANCE                              Maurice Petsche                             Pierre Mendes-France
GREECE                              George Mavros                               Grigorios Zarifopoulos
GUATEMALA                           Manuel Noriega Morales                      Carlos Leonidas Acevedo
HONDURAS                            Rafael Heliodoro Valle                      Guillermo Lopez Rodezno
ICELAND                             Jon Arnason                                 Thor Thors
INDIA                               Chintaman D. Deshmukh *                     B. Rama Rau *
IRAN                                A. H. Ebtehaj                               Mocharraf NasEcy
IRAQ                                Abdullah Ibrahim Bakr                       Abdul-Ghani Al-Dalli
ITALY                               Donato Menichella                           Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
LEBANON                             Charles Malik                               Raja Himadeh
LUXEMBOURG                          Pierre Dupong                               Pierre Werner
MEXICO                              Ramon Beteta                                Antonio Carrillo Flores
NEYHERLANDS                         P. Iieftinck                                A. M. d: Jong
NICARAGUA                           Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa                    Enrique Delgado
NORWAY                              Gunnar Jahri                                Ole Colbjornser
PAKISTAN                            Ghulam Mohammed                             Anwar Ali
PANAMA                              Rodolfo F. Herbmger                         Julio E. Heurtematte
PARAGUAY                            Juan R. Chaves                              Victor A. Pane
PERU                                Emilio Pereyra                              Fernando Berckemeyer
PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC                 Miguel Cuaderno                             Emilio Abello
SYRA                                Faiz Ei-Khouri                              Husni A. Sawwaf
THAILAND                            Prince Viwat                                Ka,it Kasemsri
TURKEY                              Nurullah Esat Sumer                         Nahit Alpar
UNION OF SOUTH AFrUCA               N. C. Havenga                               M. H. de Kock
UNITED KINGDOM                      Sir Stafford Cripps                         &r en-= V.7ilson-Smith
UNITED STATES                       John W. Snyder                              James E. Webb
URUGUAY                             Carlos Quijano                              Nilo Berchesi
VENEZUELA                           Manuel Reyna                                Carlos P.. Loilet C.
YUGOSLAVIA                          Tavoslav Dolinsek                           Dragoslav Avramovic
* Appointment effective August 2, 1950.
61



APPENDIX K
Executive Directors and Alternates and Tbeir Voting Power
As of August 1, 19S0
VOTES BY       TOTAL
DIRECTORS                       ALTERNATES         CASTING VOTES OF          COUNTRY         VOTES
Appointed
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr.    John S. Hooker                United States                  32,000       32,000
Sir Ernest Rowe-Dutton    Sir Sydney Caine             United Kingdom                13,250       13,250
Yueh-Lien Ching          Kuo-Hwa Yu                    China                          6,250        6,250
Roger Hoppenot                                         France                         5,500        5,500
B. K. Nehru              D. S. Savkar                 India                           4,250        4,250
IUeead
Jose Barreda-MoSler      Fernando Schwalb              Brizil                         1,300
(pef,)                  (ptrir)                      Cuba                             600
Per                              425
Philippine Republic              400
Uruguay                          320        4,186
Bolivia                          320
Dominican Republic               270
Paraguay                         264
Panama                           252
Emilio Toro              Esteban F. Carbo             Mexico                            900
(Colombia)               (Ecuador)                    Chile                            600
Colombia                         600
Venezuela                        355
Ecuador                          282
Costa Rica                       270        4,055
Guatemala                        270
El Salvador                      260
Honduras                         260
Nicaragua                        258
Thomas Basyn             Ernest de Selliers           Belgium                         2,500)
(Belgium)                (Belgiiem)                   Denmark                          930        3,780
Luxembourg                       350
Louis Rasminsky          J. F. Parkinson              Canada                          3,5003
(Canada)                 (Canada)                     Iceland                          260J       3,760
J. W. Beyen              Gunnar Kjolstad              Netherlands                     3,0001
(Netherlands)            (Norway)                     Norway                           750)'       3,750
S. G. McFarlane          J. M. Garlaad                Australia                       2,2501
(Australia)              (Australta)                  Union of South Aftics           1,250)t      3,500
Costantino               Francesco Giordani           Italy                           2,050)
Bresciani-Turroni      (Italy)                      Austria                          750).       3,300
(Italy)                                               Greece                           50o
Mekin H. Onaran          Taghi Nasr                   Egypt                             7831
(Tarkey)                 (Iran)                       Turkey                           680
Iran                             586
Syria                            315        3,249
Iraq                             310
Lebanon                          295
Ethiopia                         280
Bohumil Sucharda             Czechoslovakia                 i,Soo)
(Czecboslovakia)            Y  oslavia                       650 0       2,780
Member Countries unrepresented by an Executive Director:
Pslistan       1,250 votes
Thailand         375 votes
62]



APPE-NDIX K
In addition to the Exective Directors and Alternates shown on the foregoing list, the following sened as
Executive Directors or Altemates since the date of the Fourth Annual Report:
EXECUrTIVE DIRECTORS                                     Date ot Resigotatiox
N. Sundaresan (India)                               October 13, 1949
Sir Gordon Munro (United Kingdom)                   November 15, 1949
Donald Gordon (Canada)                              Januay 21, 1950
Leon Baranski (Poland)                             June 22, 1950
ALTERNATES
Mohammad Nemazee (Iran)                             September 22, 1949
G. H. Tansley (United Kingdom)                      November 30, 1949
Alf Eriksen (Norway)                               December 31, 1949
Emmanuel Lamy (Prance)                              December 31, 1949
Ignacio Copete-Lizarralde (Colombia)               March 31, 1950
Javier Salazar (Peru)                              may 1, 1950
Amost Polak (Czecboslovakia)                       May 17, 1950 (deceased)
Edgar Jones (United Kingdom)                       July 15, 1950
[63]



APPENDIX L
Principal Officers of tbe Bank
As of Axgust 1, 1950
Eugene R. Black .............                                     Precident
Robert L. Garner .............                              Vice President
William A. B. Iliff .............                            Loan Director
D. Crena de Iongh ..............Treasurer
Leonard B. Rist .............                           Economic Director
Davidson Sonrners .............                           Genetrl Counsel
Morton M. Mendels .............                                   Secretary
Norman M. Tucker ............                       Director of Marketing
Chauncey G. Parker ............                Director of Administration
William L. Ayers ......... Director of Public Relations
Richard H. Demuth..s................ Assistant to the Vice President
[641



