                                          81110




                      POvERTY




End ExTREmE POvERTY
                      2030      PROmOTE ShaREd PROSPERITY




                  PROSPERITY



  annual REPORT 2013
COnTEnTS
   2 message from the President of the World Bank Group
     and Chairman of the Board of Executive directors

   4 message from the Board of Executive directors

   7 a World Free of Poverty: Ending Extreme Poverty and
     Promoting Shared Prosperity

  23 The Regions

  48 The World Bank: The Roles of IBRd and Ida

  52 Operational Summary, Fiscal 2008–13

  54 World Bank lending by Theme and Sector,
     Fiscal 2008–13



This annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2012, to June 30,
2013, has been prepared by the Executive directors of both the International
Bank for Reconstruction and development (IBRd) and the International
development association (Ida)—collectively known as the World Bank—in
accordance with the respective bylaws of the two institutions. dr. Jim Yong
Kim, President of IBRd and Ida and Chairman of the Board of Executive
directors, has submitted this report, together with the accompanying
administrative budgets and audited financial statements, to the Board of
Governors.

annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the multilateral
Investment Guarantee agency (mIGa), and the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment disputes (ICSId) are published separately.

all dollar amounts used in this annual Report are current u.S. dollars unless
otherwise specified. as a result of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to
totals, and percentages in figures may not add to 100. Throughout this report,
the terms “World Bank” and “Bank” refer to IBRd and Ida. “World Bank Group”
refers collectively to IBRd, Ida, IFC, mIGa, and ICSId.
End ExtrEmE PovErty.                                                                                                                     “To reach the 2030 goal, we must halve poverty once,
                                                                                                                                          then halve it again, and then nearly halve it a third
Goal: decrease the percentage of people living on less than




                                                                                                                                          time—all in less than one generation.”
uS$1.25 a day to no more than 3 percent by 2030.
                                                                                                                                               — Jim Yong Kim
                                                                                                                              60




                                                                               Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP)
                                                                                                                              50

                                                                                                                              40




                                                                                           (% of population)
                                                                                                                              30

                                                                                                                              20

                                                                                                                              10

                                                                                                                               1981   1984   1987   1990   1993   1996   1999   2002   2005   2008   2010     2030




                                                                                                                                                    
Growth of the bottom 40 percent that is consistently lower
than the average growth should be a cause for concern.
No country has transited beyond middle-income status while maintaining




                     
high levels of inequality.





PromotE SharEd ProSPErity.
Goal: Foster the welfare and income growth of the bottom
40 percent of the population in every developing country.
END EXTREME POVERTY.
PROMOTE SHARED PROSPERITY.
Over the past three decades, the extent of global poverty has declined
rapidly. The percentage of people living in extreme poverty in 2013 is
less than half of what it was in 1990. Based on this trend, it is possible
to envision a world in which extreme poverty has effectively been
eliminated within a generation. Yet today, more than 1 billion people
worldwide are still destitute, inequality and social exclusion seem to be
rising in several countries, and many urgent and complex challenges must
be overcome to maintain the recent momentum in poverty reduction.

In this context, the World Bank Group has established ambitious but
achievable goals on which to anchor its work in meeting these historic
challenges. Specifically, the institution will strive to end extreme
poverty at the global level by 2030 and to promote shared prosperity in
developing countries, which will entail fostering income growth for the
bottom 40 percent of the population. This effort will involve investing in
opportunities for all citizens and reducing inequality, which are integral
to creating prosperity and sustaining economic growth. These goals will
be pursued in an environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable
manner to ensure that development gains do not harm the welfare of
current and future generations.

This Annual Report focuses on the work of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International
Development Association (IDA), collectively known as the World Bank.
We encourage you to read this report to learn more about the Bank’s
work—the activities and outcomes it supports in the six regions in which
it works, and the results of that work in helping to overcome poverty and
create opportunities for people in developing countries. On the CD-ROM,
you will find comprehensive lending data, organizational information,
and full financial statements, as well as the Results 2013 report, which
includes the updated World Bank Corporate Scorecard.

Multiple links are provided throughout the text to connect you with
even more information. We invite you to visit the Annual Report
2013, Corporate Scorecard, and Results websites to broaden your
understanding of how the World Bank partners with countries to end
extreme poverty, promote shared prosperity, and achieve sustainable
results for transformational impact.

     	worldbank.org/annualreport2013
     	worldbank.org/corporatescorecard
     	worldbank.org/results
Message from the
President of the World Bank
Group and Chairman of the
Board of Executive Directors
We are at an auspicious moment in history.
Thanks to the successes of the past few decades
and a favorable economic outlook, developing
countries now have an unprecedented
opportunity: the chance to end extreme poverty
within a generation. This opportunity must not
be squandered.
    Earlier this year, we in the World Bank Group
set two specific and measurable goals for
ourselves and our partners in the development
community: effectively ending extreme poverty
by shrinking the share of people living on
less than $1.25 a day to 3 percent by 2030,
and promoting shared prosperity by raising
the incomes of the poorest 40 percent of the
population in every developing country.
    These are ambitious goals, and success is far from inevitable. Nearly five years after
the global financial crisis began, in 2008, the world’s economic recovery remains fragile.
Developed countries struggle with high unemployment and weak economic growth.
Developing countries are growing more slowly than before the crisis. Moreover, the fight
against poverty will become increasingly difficult as we push toward our target, since
those who remain poor will be the hardest to reach.
    Other challenges could pose new threats to poverty reduction. Conflict and political
instability present major risks because they increase poverty and create long-term
obstacles to development. Moreover, a warming planet could increase the prevalence
and size of drought-affected areas, and make extreme weather events more frequent, with
unpredictable costs in terms of lives and financial resources.
    Yet, I remain optimistic that achieving the goals is within our reach. Doing so will
require systemic and relentless collaboration from the World Bank Group, our 188 member
countries, and other partners.
    Meeting the development challenges ahead will require that we find and leverage
synergies across the World Bank Group and focus our resources on priority areas. This year,
the World Bank Group committed $52.6 billion in loans, grants, equity investments, and
guarantees to its members and private businesses. The commitments from IBRD totaled
$15.2 billion, compared to $20.6 billion in 2012. IDA, the Bank’s fund for the poorest, made
commitments of $16.3 billion, compared to $14.8 billion in 2012.
    This Annual Report describes the many programs and projects that World Bank
lending supports, and demonstrates how they are helping to end extreme poverty and
promote shared prosperity in partner countries across the world.
    Making improvements in energy, the environment, infrastructure, health, and
education, as well as in countries’ business environment, all represent difficult and
complex challenges. Take jobs, for instance. As the World Development Report 2013
describes, jobs can provide a transformational path out of poverty for men, women, and
youth. Beyond an individual’s income, jobs can bring great value to society through their
broad influence on living standards, productivity, and social cohesion. And because almost
nine out of every ten jobs created in the developing world originate in the private sector,



the Bank will continue to work with its partners in both the private and public sectors, as
well as in civil society, to help stimulate the strong, private sector–led job creation needed
to reduce poverty and build shared prosperity.
    Simply reaching our development goals, however, is not enough. To be truly
transformational and enduring, the World Bank will pursue these goals in an
environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable manner. For example, the two
volumes of Turn Down the Heat, published by the Bank in fiscal 2013, illustrate the
considerable risks that climate change poses to development gains. A world that is 2°C
warmer will face widespread food shortages, unprecedented heat waves, and more
intense cyclones, among other extreme events. And the situation could become far worse:
In the absence of concerted action now, we may see warming exceed 4°C by the end of
this century.
    It is because of this threat that the Bank is raising the profile of climate change as a
leading development issue. The Bank is currently working with 130 countries to address
climate change through lending to both adaptation and mitigation projects.
    The World Bank is determined to support our clients in applying evidence-based,
country-specific solutions to development challenges. We must listen, learn, and partner
with countries and beneficiaries to build bottom-up solutions. In recent years, we have
seen tremendous gains. I encourage you to read about many of the Bank-supported
achievements throughout this Annual Report and the Results 2013 report on the CD
that accompanies it.
    We live in an exciting time. The challenges of ending extreme poverty and promoting
shared prosperity will require sustained determination from all sides. The World Bank
Group—its leadership and the talented staff who work here—is committed to making
the most of this unprecedented opportunity and helping to bring about the world we all
want: one free of poverty, with shared prosperity for all.




Dr. Jim Yong Kim
President of the World Bank Group and
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors




                                                                                            3
Message from the
Board of Executive Directors
The 25 resident Executive Directors, representing the 188 World Bank Group member
countries, are responsible for the conduct of the World Bank’s general operations under
delegated powers from the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement,
5 Executive Directors are appointed by each of the five members having the largest
number of shares; 20 Executive Directors are elected by other member countries to form
constituencies in an election process every two years. The Executive Directors select
a President, who serves as Chairman of the Board. The current Board was elected or
appointed on November 1, 2012.
    Executive Directors fulfill an important role in deciding on the policies that guide the
general operations of the Bank and its strategic direction, and they represent member
countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They consider and decide on proposals made by
the President for loans, credits, and guarantees from IBRD and IDA; new policies; and the
administrative budget. They also discuss Country Partnership Strategies—the central tool
with which management and the Board review and guide the World Bank Group’s support
for a country’s development programs. They are responsible for presenting to the Board of
Governors an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and the annual report on fiscal
year results.
    Executive Directors serve on one or more standing committees: the Audit Committee,
the Budget Committee, the Committee on Development Effectiveness, the Committee
on Governance and Administrative Matters, and the Human Resources Committee. These
committees help the Board discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth
examinations of policies and practices. The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee plays
an important role in preparing the Board’s work program.

                                          The names of the Executive Directors can be found on the next page.




     Directors periodically travel to member countries to gain firsthand knowledge of a
country’s economic and social challenges, visit project activities financed by the World
Bank Group, and discuss with government officials their assessment of the collaboration
with the World Bank Group. The stakeholders they meet include government officials,
beneficiaries, representatives of nongovernmental organizations, other development
partners (including those in the business community), and Bank staff. In 2013, Directors
visited countries in southeast Africa and East Asia.
     The Board, through its committees, attends to the effectiveness of the World Bank
Group’s activities by regularly engaging with the independent Inspection Panel and the
Independent Evaluation Group—which report directly to the Board—as well as with
the Internal Audit Department and the external auditor.

Board Achievements of 2013
Although development challenges persist and the global economy remains fragile,
the Bank continues its drive toward ending extreme poverty and pursuing shared
prosperity in an environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable manner, which are
goals the Executive Directors and Governors recently endorsed. The Executive Directors
also engaged with senior management on the upcoming World Bank Group Strategy,
which will guide the institution in carrying out these goals. Relatedly, the Board discussed
the paper “A Common Vision for the World Bank Group,” which the Governors considered
at the Spring 2013 Development Committee meeting.
    Central to the Board’s discussions on achieving the Bank’s goals were the themes
of jobs, disaster risk, and gender. The jobs theme was covered extensively in the World
Bank’s flagship report World Development Report 2013: Jobs and its subsequent policy
directions. “Managing Disaster Risks for a Resilient Future: The Sendai Report” informed
Board conversations on disaster risk issues. Other discussions on the topic of disaster risk


                                                                                                           5
included food security concerns; strategies and support for specific natural disasters, such
as those in Haiti and Samoa; and the issues raised by the United Nations (UN) Conference
on Sustainable Development (Rio + 20) and the UN Climate Change Conference in Doha.
And the Update on the Implementation of the Gender Equality Agenda at the World Bank
Group reported on gender challenges. The Directors also discussed the flagship report
Global Monitoring Report 2013: Rural-Urban Dynamics and the Millennium Development
Goals. Fragility and conflict-affected economies were at the forefront during discussions of
strategies and operations. The Executive Directors look forward to the World Development
Report 2014: Risk and Opportunity—Managing Risk for Development, which will be published
in time for the Annual Meetings in Washington, DC, in October of this year.
     To streamline the Bank Group’s operational effectiveness, the Board discussed and
approved changes to investment lending policies with the aim of focusing lending on
performance and results. It also considered reforms to the procurement framework and
greater disclosure of Board records. The Executive Directors endorsed a series of measures
to enhance the effectiveness of corporate governance by setting criteria for identifying
IBRD/IDA operations for Board discussion and aligning them more closely with corporate
priorities. The Board also welcomed the Bank’s reengagement with Myanmar after a 25-
year absence and with Suriname after a 30-year absence.
     The Board approved $31.5 billion in World Bank financial assistance in fiscal 2013,
comprising $15.2 billion in IBRD lending and $16.3 billion in IDA support. The Executive
Directors also reviewed 22 Country Partnership Strategy products, 21 of which were
prepared jointly with the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The Board approved an
administrative budget for the World Bank of $1.9 billion for fiscal 2014. (See worldbank
.org/boards.)




                                      9                                               18
                  6       7                       12           14
         5                        8                                         15              19                  22      23
     4                                    10              13                                      20
                                                                                 16
                                                                                                                             24
                      2                           11
3                                                                                      17              21
                                 1
                                                                                                                       25




1: Merza Hasan; 2: Agapito Mendes Dias; 3: Satu Santala; 4: Roberto B. Tan; 5: John Whitehead; 6: Marie-Lucie Morin;
7: Shaolin Yang; 8: Gwen Hines; 9: Vadim Grishin; 10: Mukesh N. Prasad; 11: Mansur Muhtar; 12: Piero Cipollone;
13: Omar Bougara; 14: Ibrahim M. Alturki (alternate); 15: Gino Alzetta; 16: Hideaki Suzuki; 17: Ingrid-Gabriela Hoven;
18: Denny H. Kalyalya; 19: César Guido Forcieri; 20: Juan José Bravo; 21: Sara Aviel (alternate); 22: Hervé de Villeroché;
23: Frank Heemskerk; 24: Jörg Frieden; 25: Sundaran Annamalai


6         T he W or l d B an k A nn ua l R eport 2013
                          P o v erty
                                       s u stai n abi l ity
PROSPERITY




                A World Free
                of Poverty
                Ending Extreme Poverty and
                Promoting Shared Prosperity


             The World Bank Group has entered a new era by adopting
             measurable goals to end extreme poverty globally by 2030
             and promote shared prosperity, which it will pursue in an
             environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable way.
             Achieving these goals will require acknowledging that economic
             growth alone will not build sustained and inclusive welfare;
             increased levels of social unrest around the world have been
             caused, in part, by a rise in economic inequality and a lack of
             inclusive opportunities. Achieving these goals will require greater
             cooperation among development partners, including multilateral
             organizations and their member states. This cooperation is
             essential in a time of continued global economic uncertainty.




                                                     a wor l d f ree o f poverty   7
Operating in a recovering BUT FRAGILE
global economy
More than five years after the first phase of the global economic and financial crisis,
developing countries have generally recovered and continue to grow more rapidly than
the developed world. However, the uneven recovery continues to dampen growth
across much of the globe. The average pace of gross domestic product (GDP) growth in
the developing world dropped to 5.0 percent in 2012, largely because of a slowdown
in several large, middle-income economies, particularly during the first two quarters.
Meanwhile, headwinds from restructuring and fiscal consolidation in high-income
countries persist, although they should ease, allowing for a slow acceleration in growth
over the next several years.
    For developing countries as a whole, economic growth is set to remain solid but
muted. It is projected to start to reflect its underlying potential in 2013. Since the last
half of 2012, higher capital flows to developing countries and slightly improved growth
in some high-income countries, notably the United States, have contributed to this
improved global picture.
    The outlook for developing countries varies greatly across regions. Affected by slower
growth in China, GDP growth in East Asia and Pacific is expected to slide to 7.3 percent in
2013 before rising to a slightly higher level in the subsequent two years. Growth in India
and the rest of South Asia should improve slightly in 2013 to 5.2 percent, with even better
forecasts for the next two years. Growth also remains strong in much of Sub-Saharan
Africa, where it is projected to rise to 4.9 percent in the short term. Growth increased
in Latin America and the Caribbean to 3.3 percent, but capacity constraints in some
economies hinder potential growth. In the Middle East and North Africa, growth slowed to
2.5 percent as a result of continuing turmoil from the Arab Spring. Growth in Europe and
Central Asia remains uneven. Although the region as a whole is forecast to grow by about
2.8 percent in 2013, the Euro area is expected to contract for the year, and the near-term
forecast for Central and Southeastern Europe is anemic.
    The World Bank continues to advise developing countries to focus on domestic policy
needs, including reforms to ease supply-side bottlenecks, such as gaps in physical, social,
and regulatory infrastructure. It also advises countries to gradually restore monetary and
fiscal buffers (by maintaining relatively low levels of public debt, for example), which
allowed many of them to counter some impacts of the financial crisis. Developing
countries that had the fiscal space to spend on social safety nets, health, and education
were able to ensure that their poorest citizens were not as hard hit by this crisis as they
had been in previous downturns. Fiscal and monetary buffers are now largely depleted
in many countries. Economic growth affords the opportunity for countries to restore
these buffers over time, without resorting to painful cuts in public expenditures. Doing
so in the developing world will depend on increasing productivity and investments in
infrastructure, human capital, and improved governance. (See worldbank.org/gep.)
    Strengthening debt management is critical to a country’s economic well-being. Since
2009, the Bank has provided technical assistance on debt management to 59 countries.
For the poorest countries, the Bank provides debt relief through the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). In 2012, three
countries—Comoros, Côte d’Ivoire, and Guinea—received full debt relief under these
programs. Chad is the only country that has begun but not yet completed its program,
while only three potentially eligible countries—Eritrea, Somalia, and Sudan—have yet to
engage fully or benefit from these debt relief initiatives.

RESULT
                 4.7 million families
                 in Pakistan receive income support under the Benazir Income
                 Support Program, as of 2013.


                                                            AZERBAIJAN  Allison Kwesell/The World Bank



Aligning toward common goals as
one World Bank Group	
Fighting poverty has always been central to the World Bank Group’s mission. Achieving
that goal in a world that has changed dramatically in recent years requires that the World
Bank Group continue to evolve as an institution.
    Soon after taking office, President Kim launched a global conversation among the
Board of Executive Directors, stakeholders, staff, and the greater international community
on the barriers and solutions to ending poverty. Based on the input received from around
the world, President Kim developed a proposal for two ambitious but achievable goals
to anchor the mission of the World Bank Group: ending extreme poverty and promoting
shared prosperity. At the 2013 Spring Meetings, the World Bank Group’s Development
Committee endorsed the proposal.
    About 1.2 billion people live in extreme poverty—about 21 percent of the population in the developing world. Achieving the goal of ending extreme poverty by 2030
would see the percentage of people living on less than $1.25 a day cut to no more than
3 percent globally.
    Promoting shared prosperity requires fostering income growth of the poorest 40
percent of the people in every country in the developing world, as well as of people who
are vulnerable to falling into poverty. Achieving this goal will require investments that
encourage unbounded improvement in the living standards of the less well-off and that
create opportunities for all citizens.
    Both of these goals are achievable. Focusing on them clarifies the progress each
country is making in health, education, sanitation, infrastructure, and other services
needed to improve the lives of poor people and provide paths out of poverty. The first
practical effort to achieve the new twin goals is already in place. In April 2013, the World
Bank approved a new five-year Country Partnership Strategy for India. The strategy sets
specific goals for reducing poverty and increasing prosperity for the poorest people. The
strategy shifts the Bank’s support significantly to low-income states, where many of India’s
400 million poor live.
    In order to support development gains that will endure, the World Bank Group has
committed itself to pursuing the goals in an environmentally, socially, and economically
sustainable manner. A sustainable path to development and poverty reduction would be
one that manages the resources of our planet for future generations. Green growth offers
the only way of reconciling the rapid economic development required to reduce poverty
and boost shared prosperity with the imperative of a better-managed environment.
A sustainable path would also involve creating an inclusive society, not only in terms


                                                         a wor l d f ree o f poverty                9
of economic welfare but also in terms of the voice and empowerment of all groups.
Societies that promote better and equal opportunities for all would more likely achieve
the broad support needed to underpin sustainable development. Finally, policies should
be economically responsible over time to ensure that the gains are not short lived or
achieved at the cost of future prosperity. The most appropriate policies are those that aim
to end poverty permanently while limiting the burden of future debt.
     The World Bank Group can use its considerable expertise and resources to work
with countries and partners to find creative and innovative solutions to development
problems. However, new programs and services are of little use if they cannot be
delivered effectively to the people who need them. In its role as a “Solutions Bank,” armed
with its extensive experience in what promotes development and what does not, the
World Bank Group is working with its partners and clients to create the knowledge, tools,
and global support networks that can solve delivery problems and gather feedback from
citizens who will benefit from the projects in real time. Together, these elements form a
“science of delivery”—context-specific solutions for delivering programs and services
and achieving the highest quality results. This approach aims to ensure that country-specific development strategies and objectives are given the resources and support
needed for meaningful impact.
     To meet its ambitious goals in the face of enduring global challenges, the World Bank
Group has begun a process of institutional change. Starting early in fiscal 2013, senior
management gathered staff feedback to understand where the World Bank Group is today
as an institution and what its future direction should be, both externally and internally.
These assessments helped clarify the institution’s strengths, weaknesses, and areas for
improvement. Staff and management identified the following five areas for improvement:
strategic focus; knowledge and solutions; client impact and results, accountability, and risk;
leadership, people, and talent; and global footprint. Working groups on these areas were
tasked with discussing and delivering their recommendations by the end of June 2013.
Based on the inputs, management committed to delivering a World Bank Group strategic
document to the Development Committee at the 2013 Annual Meetings.
     Notable changes have already been implemented to improve the institution’s ability
to deliver unified services. The World Bank Group is uniting the external and corporate
relations, information technology, and human resources functions of IBRD, IDA, IFC,
and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) under one umbrella, World
Bank Group Integrated Services. Along with the International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes (ICSID), it will improve effectiveness by building greater synergies
among its constituent parts.
     Work has also begun to identify areas and opportunities where collaboration
within the World Bank Group can add significant value. This joint approach could have
a transformational impact across strategic focus areas at the regional and country levels.
A recent power project in Côte d’Ivoire illustrates the collective power of the institutions
in action. Building on a multiyear, comprehensive IDA effort to advise and address financial
sustainability issues in the country’s power sector, IFC and MIGA mobilized private
financing to support expansion of the Azito independent power plant. The involvement of
and support from IDA was critical in helping IFC and MIGA mobilize private sector capital
in a postconflict country. IFC arranged a $350 million debt package, and MIGA provided
political risk insurance to cover equity investment for one of the key investors in the
project. Going forward, applying these synergies to development challenges is expected
to amplify the impact of projects supported by the World Bank Group.


RESULT
                3,500 temporary jobs
                were created in Kosovo through a public works program in 2012.


10      T he W or l d B an k A nn ua l R eport 2013
                                           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO  Dominic Chavez/The World Bank




     In addition to these World Bank Group–wide reforms, the World Bank itself continues
its external engagement to deepen its partnerships with nonstate actors within civil
society and the private sector, as well as with parliamentarians. The 2012 Annual and 2013
Spring Meetings saw increased participation of civil society organizations in the numerous
policy sessions and special events held on topics of mutual concern.
     The Bank is also continuing to embrace social media tools to energize global
stakeholders in the core mission of ending poverty. In August, President Kim invited
people around the world to share their ideas on “What will it take to end poverty?”
The initiative garnered more than 12,000 direct responses from more than 90 countries,
and some 220,000 people joined the conversation on Facebook.
     To ensure continued high standards in project development, the Bank began a process
to review and update its procurement policy and the environmental and social safeguards
for projects. It also completed the first phase of global consultations on how to strengthen
the impact of these policies. In addition, the Bank is finding success with innovative
lending solutions. A year and a half after the introduction of the new Program-for-Results
(PforR) financing instrument, seven new operations have been launched—in Ethiopia,
Morocco, Nepal, Tanzania, Uganda, Uruguay, and Vietnam—with a financing commitment
of $1.1 billion. Another 12 PforR operations are under preparation, with an expected
financing commitment of close to $2 billion.

Partnering to achieve the MDGs
Less than two years remain in the ambitious agenda laid out by world leaders in 2000 for
improving the lives of the world’s poorest people. Of the 21 specific targets within the
eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), only 4 targets have been met worldwide.
But among the targets that have been met is one of the most ambitious: cutting in half
the number of people living in extreme poverty. This target was achieved in large part
because China’s recent economic growth lifted some 600 million people out of extreme
poverty.
    Progress on the remaining MDGs has lagged, especially for the goals related to
education and health. Achieving the goal for primary school completion should have
been within sight by 2011, but only half the needed progress has been made. Progress
toward meeting the global targets for infant, under-five, and maternal mortality—and to
a lesser extent, access to basic sanitation—is significantly off track. Progress needs to be
greatly accelerated to meet these goals by 2015. (See worldbank.org/gmr2013.)
    In a time of limited resources and economic stress, it is more important than ever for
international institutions to work together more effectively to help countries achieve the

RESULT
              1.8 million people
              in Tanzania accessed improved water sources in 2012, up more
              than 400 percent from 350,000 in 2005.


MDGs and development goals in general. The World Bank has stepped up its collaboration
with partner institutions, including the United Nations, as demonstrated by the active
participation of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon at the 2013 Spring Meetings and by the
joint visit in May of President Kim and the Secretary-General to the Great Lakes region in
Africa.

Addressing the challenge of climate change
The World Bank is working on new strategies to help developing countries confront
the challenges of climate change, which poses a fundamental threat to economic
development and the fight against poverty. Unless the world takes bold action now, a
warming planet threatens to roll back decades of development and put prosperity out
of reach for millions.
    The report Turn Down the Heat: Why a 4°C Warmer World Must Be Avoided, published
by the Bank in November 2012, explains the dangers of climate change, especially to
developing countries, and suggests cooperative international actions to mitigate its
impact and help countries adapt to it. The follow-up study, subtitled “Climate Extremes,
Regional Impacts, and the Case for Resilience,” reports the likely impacts of present-day,
2°C, and 4°C warming on agricultural production, water resources, coastal ecosystems,
and cities across three developing regions. It shows how rising global temperatures are
increasingly threatening the health and livelihoods of the most vulnerable populations,
crucially magnifying problems each region is struggling with today. The Bank is currently
working with 130 countries to take action on climate change—helping cities to adopt
green growth strategies and develop resilience to climate change, developing climate-smart agricultural practices, finding innovative ways to improve both energy efficiency
and the performance of renewable energies, and assisting governments to reduce fossil
fuel subsidies and put in place policies that will eventually lead to a stable price on carbon.
    In fiscal 2013, the Bank loaned $4.1 billion for the mitigation of climate change and
$2.9 billion for adaptation. World Bank Green Bonds, which support the financing of
these activities, have been recognized as a catalyst for the emergence of a green bond
market that helps mobilize funds from the private sector for climate finance. The Bank has
worked closely with 130 countries on specific climate-related actions, such as replacing
45 million inefficient light bulbs in Mexico, providing solar energy for 1.4 million homes
in Bangladesh, and funding social safety nets to support 7.8 million people affected by
droughts in Ethiopia. It also works with countries to assess and manage risks; for example,
pilot studies are being conducted on flood risks in Vietnam, which is one of many
countries vulnerable to sea-level rise and climate-related disasters.
    The World Bank Group is supporting a growing and diverse portfolio of investments in
renewable energy and energy efficiency. Wherever feasible or appropriate, future projects
to expand access to electricity will include clean energy dimensions. For example, the
Lighting Africa project, which has developed off-grid solar lighting markets in Kenya and
Ghana, will be replicated across the continent, as well as in India, with the goal of reaching
250 million people by 2030.
    The Bank also supports climate-smart agriculture, which can provide a triple win for agriculture, the climate, and food security. Climate-smart farming techniques increase
farm productivity and incomes and make agriculture more resilient to climate change
while contributing to mitigation as well. Climate-smart agriculture also includes innovative
practices such as better weather forecasting, drought- and flood-tolerant crops, and risk
insurance. (See worldbank.org/climatechange.)

Supporting people in conflict-affected and
fragile situations
The Bank’s commitment to ending extreme poverty must confront the particular challenges
of fragile and conflict-affected situations, where about one-fourth of the world’s population
lives. According to the Global Monitoring Report 2013, 20 of these states recently met at least
1 of the 21 targets under the MDGs; 8 of them have met the target of reducing by half the
number of people living in extreme poverty, and 6 others are on track to meet individual
targets before 2015. This hard-earned success is tenuous, however. The fact that renewed
conflict and crisis could reverse recent progress underscores the need for sustained action
by these countries and continued support from the international community.
     Security and justice are central issues in states currently or recently affected by conflict.
Given the need for security to underpin efforts at stabilization and development, the Bank
is expanding beyond earlier work in disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration. It is
using a variety of means to help governments address crime and violence, as well as to
push new frontiers of justice. Internal reforms now under way are improving the Bank’s
effectiveness. These reforms include country strategies that address the drivers of conflict
and fragility, especially instituting targeted operational policies; disseminating information
about best practices; intense monitoring to track progress in these states; and reducing
the volatility of financing for fragile and conflict-affected situations. The Bank is also
strengthening implementation support for teams working in fragile and conflict-affected
situations, with additional support now based in the Bank’s Center for Conflict, Security
and Development hub in Nairobi.
     Since 2000, IDA has provided more than $22 billion for fragile and conflict-affected
situations. Despite the difficulty of these environments, IDA-funded projects have
immunized 10 million children, delivered prenatal care to 1.5 million women, and
provided $4 billion in debt relief. (See worldbank.org/fcs.)

Investing in education and health
Providing universal access to education and quality health care is an essential component
of economic development. The Bank is a major supporter of education in developing
countries, with a portfolio of more than $9.3 billion for operations in 72 countries. It
invested about $2.9 billion in education programs in fiscal 2013. Of this amount, nearly
$1.3 billion was committed by IDA to finance basic education.
    Under its current education strategy “Learning for All,” launched in 2011, the Bank
promotes educational reforms based on hard evidence of what works under different
country conditions. In nearly 100 countries, the Bank is using analytical tools developed
under the Systems Approach for Better Education Results (SABER), a global knowledge
platform that is helping countries assess their education policies and identify actionable
priorities to help education systems achieve success. Among the policy areas covered by
SABER are early child development, student assessment, teacher training, finance, and
workforce development.
    Improving service delivery is a key component of education reform. In Indonesia, for
example, school grants are helping with the achievement of school improvement plans.
In Nigeria, performance grants to secondary schools are based on test scores and teacher
attendance. In Ghana, Kazakhstan, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
vocational training is improving the quality and relevance of skills development programs
in emerging economic sectors. (See worldbank.org/education.)


RESULT
                 > 1 million people
                 in Sri Lanka affected by conflict have seen their livelihoods
                 improved through the Reawakening Project since 2004.


                                                           AFGHANISTAN Graham Crouch/The World Bank


     Strengthening health systems and helping countries to ensure access to universal
health care are central elements of the Bank’s work. The Bank invested more than $2.4
billion in health, nutrition, and population programs in fiscal 2013, and manages a
portfolio totaling $8.7 billion in 65 countries. Speaking at the World Health Assembly in
May 2013, President Kim urged countries to ensure universal access to quality, affordable
health services to help end extreme poverty by 2030 and promote shared prosperity. He
said the World Bank Group would help countries to tackle two major challenges as they
advance toward universal health coverage: ensuring that no family is forced into poverty
because of health care expenses and closing the gap in access to health services and
public health protection for the poorest 40 percent of the population in every country.
     In fiscal 2013, the Bank provided financing, state-of-the-art analysis, and policy advice
to help countries achieve equitable, universal access to quality, affordable health care in a
fiscally sustainable way and protect people from falling into poverty or worsening poverty
because of illness. A results-based approach is enabling the Bank to link its financing to
concrete results, notably in expanding the quality and reach of maternal and child care
services in the poorest countries. The three areas of focus for the Bank’s health strategy
are expanding access to reproductive health care, scaling up support for early childhood
nutrition, and preventing HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases.
     This fiscal year, the Bank and development and country partners renewed their
engagement in the International Health Partnership (IHP+), which mobilizes national
governments, development agencies, civil society, and others to support a single, country-led national health strategy in a well-coordinated way. IHP+ partners are supporting
countries in their quest to achieve the health MDGs in the remaining months before the
2015 MDG deadline. (See worldbank.org/health.)

Promoting opportunities for women and girls
Putting women at the center of the development process is not only the right thing
to do, it is the smart thing to do economically because gender equality is a long-term
driver of competitiveness and equity. Underinvesting in women and girls puts a brake on


RESULT
                 44 percent
                 of HIV-infected pregnant women in Côte d’Ivoire received
                 antiretroviral treatment in 2012, up from 0 percent in 2007.


14      T he W or l d B an k A nn ua l R eport 2013
RESULT
                 2.7 million GIRLS
                 in Afghanistan were enrolled in school in 2012, up from 191,000
                 in 2002.


cutting poverty and limits economic and social development. The Bank is committed to
mainstreaming gender throughout its programs.
    This fiscal year, 97 percent of all Bank operations were gender informed. This translates
into approximately 98 percent (or close to $31 billion) of Bank lending. In Punjab Province,
Pakistan, for example, a Bank-supported government program provides targeted monthly
stipends to more than 400,000 girls, based on school attendance.
    Gender is a special theme of IDA16 (the 16th replenishment of IDA resources, covering
fiscal 2012–14), meaning that IDA is funding and monitoring gender-related work in the
world’s poorest countries. The Bank continues to track gender commitments under the
Corporate Scorecard and the IDA16 Results Measurement Framework.
    In July 2012, the Bank launched the Gender Data Portal, an interactive platform that
draws on data from a variety of sources, including the World Development Indicators
(the Bank’s primary collection of development indicators), national statistics agencies,
and UN databases.
    The issues of gender and development were at the forefront during the 2013 Spring
Meetings. The meeting of the Equal Futures Partnership highlighted progress and
challenges in country commitments to expand women’s economic opportunity and
political voice. More than a thousand participants gathered in the Bank’s Atrium for a “Call
to Action” for the education and empowerment of women and girls. (See worldbank.org
/gender.)

Working to create jobs, bolster trade, and
support social protection
Jobs provide a key path out of poverty. Although cash transfers can help, empirical
analysis shows that labor earnings are the most important contributor to poverty
reduction. As noted in the World Development Report 2013: Jobs, employment is the key
determinant of living standards around the world and contributes to economy-wide
increases in productivity and social cohesion.
     Today’s employment picture varies greatly. Some developing countries are
experiencing modest employment growth despite the sluggish labor market in most
high-income and many developing countries. Globally, more than 200 million women,
men, and youth are out of work, and more than 1 billion people are marginally employed,
that is, working in low-income or informal jobs that keep them earning below their
potential. Unemployment among youth is particularly worrisome in some regions, where
it can be three to five times higher than that for adults. (See worldbank.org/wdr2013.)
     The private sector is the key engine of job creation, accounting for 90 percent of
all jobs in the developing world. But governments play a vital role by ensuring that
the conditions are in place for strong private sector–led growth and by alleviating the
constraints that hinder the private sector from creating good jobs for development. To
address unemployment, the Bank continues to cooperate with a network of partners—including academic institutions, civil society organizations, and the private sector—to link
research to policy.
     Trade is essential to fighting poverty. The Bank’s trade program promotes a multilateral
system that boosts development, supports competitiveness, and encourages policy
reforms through effective Aid for Trade programs. The World Bank is the largest multilateral
donor to Aid for Trade, and the active portfolio in trade-related assistance consists of
$12.4 billion in fiscal 2013, up from $2.8 billion in 2003. Given the growing importance of
trade as a cross-cutting theme, the share of Aid for Trade in total Bank lending has steadily

                                                                   TUNISIA  Arne Hoel/The World Bank




RESULT
                     536,000 poor households
                     in the Dominican Republic benefited from the Bonoluz
                     subsidy by 2012—a program that uses the national targeting
                     system to reduce costs while protecting the poor.


increased, rising from 3.0 percent of the Bank’s new commitments in fiscal 2003 to 8.6
percent in fiscal 2013. New trade-related lending reached $2.7 billion in fiscal 2013, up
from $1.9 billion in 2012.
     Social protection programs help cushion the impact of income shocks, including
unemployment. Improving earnings opportunities requires a creative mix of employment
services, training, support for self-employment and entrepreneurship, and access to
credit. The Bank is working with member countries in all of these areas, including sharing
knowledge of innovative practices. It has sharply increased its lending and grant financing
for jobs-related programs, from an annual average of $477 million in 1998–2008 to an
annual average of $634 million in 2009–11.
     The Bank is in the second year of its 10-year Social Protection and Labor Strategy,
which is intended to help countries move from fragmented and inefficient programs to
better-targeted social protection systems; improve resilience; and be more productive,
through investments in human capital and people’s ability to access jobs and opportunity.
In fiscal 2013, the Bank invested more than $3.0 billion in social protection and labor
programs; it manages an $11.9 billion portfolio with 172 operations in 85 countries. One
Bank-supported program in Rwanda reached 500,000 households by 2013 through
a community-driven approach combining public works programs and cash transfer
payments. A program in Honduras reached 350,000 households in fiscal 2013, about half
the country’s rural poor. Examples of social safety net programs funded by IDA include
cash transfers, labor-intensive public works, and school feeding programs. Cash transfers
are becoming an increasingly important safety net tool, particularly in postconflict and
fragile societies. (See http://worldbank.org/sp.)

Enabling economic participation through
financial inclusion
An estimated 2.5 billion adults in the world are financially excluded, meaning they have
no savings or access to credit and other financial services. Almost 80 percent of them live

on less than $2 a day. Savings and payments are strongly linked to poverty reduction;
access to credit, insurance, savings, and payments opens up economic opportunities
for the bottom 40 percent to increase their incomes sustainably. Women in particular
can benefit from financial inclusion initiatives, as they are more excluded than men from
formal financial services.
     In the past two years, more than 40 countries have set headline goals and targets
for financial inclusion. Many governments are requesting World Bank Group financing,
knowledge, and assistance to increase financial inclusion and adopt innovative payment
systems. The Bank has a significant region-led portfolio in financial inclusion lending and
technical assistance, with an active loan and grant portfolio of $3.4 billion in 62 countries.
     The Bank provides data, policy advice, models, technical assistance, financing, and risk
sharing. IFC provides complementary investment, guarantees, and advisory services. The
Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP), a multidonor global partnership housed
in the Bank, offers leading-edge knowledge and works on business model innovations.
Together, the three institutions have undertaken a number of initiatives to accelerate
financial inclusion, including launching the Global SME Finance Facility in 2012 and the
Financial Inclusion Support Framework in 2013. (See worldbank.org/financial
inclusion.)

Investing in agriculture for food security
Investment in agriculture is essential to meet the demands of a growing global popula­tion. The world must produce about 50 percent more food by 2050, for a projected
population of 9 billion. To help countries meet food needs today and in the future, the
Bank Group envisages a significant expansion in support of agriculture, which is projected
to rise from an average of $7 billion a year during 2010–12 to between $8 billion and
$10 billion a year during 2013–15.
     The volatility of food prices remains a concern. What was once seen as a short-term,
episodic problem increasingly appears to be a long-term reality, persisting at least until
2019 under current forecasts. Despite the recent downward trend, global food prices
remain high and volatile by historical standards, driven in part by the increased frequency
and intensity of droughts and other weather events. As a result, millions of people are at
risk of hunger and malnutrition.
     Since July 2012, the Bank’s emergency response has been channeled through IDA’s
Crisis Response Window, a lending mechanism that provides additional resources in times
of exceptional economic crises or natural disasters. An Immediate Response Mechanism,
designed to allow greater portfolio flexibility, will provide the basis for emergency
assistance in the future. In addition, the Bank has channeled $1.6 billion in emergency
funds through the Global Food Crisis Response Program. Besides $1.2 billion in Bank
resources—96 percent of which has been disbursed—grant funding of $345 million has
been made available through three externally funded trust funds.
     The Bank administers the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program, a global
partnership that supports country-led agriculture and food security plans and helps
promote investments, especially for smallholder farmers. So far, eight countries and the
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation have pledged about $1.3 billion over three years, with
$960 million received. Since its launch, the program has awarded $658 million in grants
to 18 countries. The Bank is also working with the World Food Programme to help feed
22 million children in about 60 countries, as well as coordinating efforts with UN agencies


RESULT
                > 1,200 SMEs
                (small and medium enterprises) in Turkey were supported by
                Bank-funded credit lines in response to the global financial crisis.


RESULT
              3,050 traditional seed varieties
              were collected in the Republic of Yemen and stored in gene banks
              between 2008 and 2010 to preserve agro-biodiversity.


through the High-Level Task Force on the Global Food Security Crisis and with civil society
organizations. (See worldbank.org/ard.)

Transforming LIVES through infrastructure
Infrastructure development is critical to delivering growth, reducing poverty, and creating
jobs. Including transport, water, energy, and information and communications technology,
infrastructure support accounts for 37 percent of total fiscal 2013 lending to client
countries, representing the World Bank’s largest business line.
     A three-year strategy adopted in 2012, “Transformation through Infrastructure,”
is guiding the Bank’s work in the sector. The new strategy has stimulated work on
“transformational” investments that optimize spatial, low-carbon, inclusive growth and
co-benefits. In the strategy’s first year, projects ranging from rural electrification and
renewable energy development in Bangladesh to hydropower development in Cameroon
have been approved.
     The strategy also prioritizes the mobilization of private capital through the expanded
use of private-public partnership arrangements and financial guarantee instruments. Such
arrangements are needed because developing countries will require a massive increase
in financing from both the public and the private sectors to meet their infrastructure
needs in the coming decade. The public sector must ensure that the investment climate
will attract private investors. Public financing can also be used to prepare infrastructure
projects so that they are investable and improve their risk profile.
     Transport accounts for 46 percent of the Bank’s infrastructure lending for fiscal 2013.
The Safe, Clean, and Affordable transport strategy focuses on developing safe transport
services that are respectful of the environment and affordable to the poor. Access to
infrastructure services remains a challenge in many countries, with nearly a billion people
in rural areas lacking access to all-weather roads. Since fiscal 2002, the Bank has helped to
construct or rehabilitate 267,101 kilometers of roads. (See worldbank.org/transport.)
     Globally, demand for water is increasing and its quality declining, making water
insecurity one of the greatest risks facing the world today. Some 780 million people still
lack access to improved water, and 2.5 billion—more than a third of the world’s people do not have basic sanitation. The demand for water resources will grow in the coming
decades as the global population reaches 9 billion, requiring a 60 percent increase in
agricultural production and a 15 percent increase in already-strained water withdrawals.
Climate change is expected to exacerbate the situation by increasing water variability.
     The Bank is the world’s largest financier of water projects in developing countries,
providing $3.0 billion in lending and grant financing in fiscal 2013, half of which went
for supply and sanitation. It prioritizes helping countries improve the management of
water resources. The Bank’s new vision places water at the core of helping countries build
resilience to climate change by mainstreaming it into areas such as energy, agriculture,
environment, and disaster risk management and by scaling up critical work in water supply
and sanitation. Sharing innovative knowledge and promoting integrated approaches have
enabled numerous countries to make smarter investments. For example, the China Hai
Basin Project is benefiting more than 20 million people through an integrated approach
that promotes better water use and controls pollution. (See worldbank.org/water.)
     In July 2012, the Bank released a new information and communications technology
(ICT) sector strategy intended to help developing countries use ICT to transform



                                                                   VANUATU  Tom Perry/The World Bank




the delivery of basic services, drive innovations and productivity gains, and improve
competitiveness. Together, the World Bank, IFC, and MIGA will work to help countries
unlock the opportunities offered by technology. The Bank will provide support for
appropriate policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks, as well as catalytic investment
in ICT backbone infrastructure; IFC will provide financing and advisory services
to mobile operators; and MIGA will provide guarantees to support the rollout of
telecommunications networks and services. (See worldbank.org/ict.)
     Financing energy-related programs in developing and emerging market countries
remains one of the World Bank Group’s highest priorities, accounting for about $8 billion
a year, or roughly 15 percent of the Bank Group’s total commitments to all sectors.
Expanding access to electricity is essential to ending poverty. In Rwanda, for example,
the Bank helped the government and other partners provide nearly 1 million people
with electricity. The effort tripled household connections, added 1,400 kilometers of new
distribution networks, and boosted access to electricity by schools and health centers by
70 percent.
     At the 2013 Spring Meetings, President Kim and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
cochaired the inaugural meeting of the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL) advisory board.
Its goal is to build support for efforts to guarantee universal access to electricity and safe
household fuels, double the rate of improvement of energy efficiency, and double the
share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030. An increasingly diverse
program of lending and policy advice reflects the determination of many countries to
seek lower-carbon energy solutions, including hydropower, and the Bank’s commitment
to support their pursuit of a sustainable energy path.
     In March 2013, the Bank announced a major international effort to expand renewable
power generation in developing countries by tapping an underutilized resource:
geothermal energy. It called on donors, multilateral banks, governments, and the private
sector to join a Global Geothermal Development Plan to better manage and reduce the
risks of exploratory drilling to bring what is now a minor renewable energy source into the
mainstream and deliver power to millions.
     The Bank has urged developing countries to phase out fuel subsidies, which cost
$1.9 trillion worldwide according to a recent report by the International Monetary Fund.
Although popular in many countries, these subsidies are often regressive, fiscally onerous,
and economically inefficient, and they hamper the development of clean technology.
(See worldbank.org/energy.)




RESULT
              1.1 million PEOPLE
              benefited from new water connections, and 468,000 benefited
              from new sewer connections in Brazil from 2007 to 2011.


Partnering to manage riskS and disasters
The Bank is helping countries prepare for and deal with a wide range of risks, from
financial crises to natural disasters, by facilitating access to derivative and capital market
solutions for managing sovereign-level risks. Market-based risk management and
financing tools can help countries manage vulnerabilities to external shocks associated
with market volatility and natural disasters, protecting fiscal sustainability in the process.
In fiscal 2013, the Bank executed the equivalent of $4.8 billion in hedging transactions
on behalf of member countries, including the first hedge to help a country manage its
currency risk on liabilities owed to a third party. (See treasury.worldbank.org.)
     Disaster risk management is increasingly central to Bank business. When disasters
strike, the Bank stands ready to support countries with postdisaster needs assessment and
recovery and reconstruction planning. In fiscal 2013, the Bank and the Global Facility for
Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) responded to 12 requests from governments for
postdisaster assistance. More than two-thirds of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategies
have already started to incorporate disaster risk management; the goal is to bring that
figure to 100 percent.
     This fiscal year, the Bank executed the first-ever capital markets insurance transaction
covering tsunamis in order to help five Pacific Island countries (the Marshall Islands,
Samoa, the Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Vanuatu) insure themselves against natural
disasters. The transaction was part of the Pacific Catastrophe Risk Insurance Pilot, an
initiative supported by the Asian Development Bank, the government of Japan, the
GFDRR, and the Secretariat of the Pacific Community.
     The Bank continues to engage its global partners in sharing experiences and best
practices for managing disaster risks. The Sendai Dialogue, hosted by the government
of Japan and the World Bank Group during the 2012 Annual Meetings, convened
governments, multilateral institutions, and civil society to share knowledge advancing
the integration of risk management into development planning. The conference took
place in Sendai, the largest city in the Tohoku region, along the Pacific coast of Japan,
which bore the brunt of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. “Learning from Megadisasters,”
a knowledge-sharing project sponsored by the government of Japan and the World
Bank Institute, is working to share Japan’s knowledge on disaster risk management and
postdisaster reconstruction with countries vulnerable to disasters. (See wbi.worldbank
.org/wbi/megadisasters.) To engage a broader audience, the Bank, along with the
GFDRR and Japan’s Ministry of Finance, sponsored its first TEDx event on the theme of
natural disasters. (See worldbank.org/disasterriskmanagement.)

Nearing the IDA17 Replenishment
The current program of resources for IDA (IDA16) is nearly fully committed. IDA16 focused
on concrete results in the fields of gender, climate change, fragile and conflict-affected
situations, and crisis response. Support from IDA was vital in enabling 20 fragile and

RESULT
                 child mortality decreased
                in Djibouti to 68 deaths per 1,000 children under age 5 in 2012
                from 124 deaths per 1,000 children under age 5 in 2002.


                                                               HAITI  Dominic Chavez/The World Bank



conflict-affected states to meet one or more targets under the MDGs, despite enormous
economic and political challenges in those countries.
   The IDA17 replenishment process will be one of the Bank’s top priorities in the coming
year. Along with carrying forward the themes of gender, climate change, and fragility
and adding the theme of inclusive growth, the overarching theme for IDA17 will be
maximizing development impact, including leveraging the collective resources of the
World Bank Group. (See worldbank.org/ida/ida-17-replenishment.html.)

Committing to transparency, accountability, and
corporate responsibility
The Bank is actively increasing its operational transparency, opening its knowledge
and data to the world and harnessing technology to help find new ways to listen and
learn from others. Reaffirming a commitment, the presidents of the World Bank and
regional development banks and the Secretary-General of the United Nations signed
a Memorandum of Understanding that sets out principles and modes of collaboration
to improve the quality and availability of statistics for monitoring development goals.
The Bank also advanced its Open Data agenda by introducing an Open Government
Data toolkit, an improved version of the World Development Indicators online, and
an expanded microdata library. The Bank’s online data and visualization applications,
including project maps, are now more user-friendly and dynamic. (See data.worldbank
.org and maps.worldbank.org.)
    The Bank took landmark steps to implement its Policy on Access to Information in fiscal
2013, increasing the number of publicly available documents to 134,000, a 12.4 percent
increase over fiscal 2012. More than 1.2 million documents have been downloaded
through the policy, evidence of the Bank’s commitment to maximize public access to
information.
    The World Bank Group Open Finances portal was expanded this fiscal year to include
IFC and procurement datasets. It is now available in multiple languages and new mobile
platforms, including Android. As the world’s leading producer of knowledge and expertise
on development, the Bank is continuing to expand its Open Knowledge Repository, a
one-stop shop for the Bank’s research and knowledge outputs. One year after its launch,
the repository hosted more than 10,000 documents and recorded more than 1 million
downloads, including more than 587,000 documents downloaded from developing
countries. (See openknowledge.worldbank.org.)
    Combating corruption remains a top priority for the Bank, which is committed
to promoting and protecting the integrity of the development projects it supports.
In fiscal 2013, the Bank debarred 47 companies and individuals, and together with
other multilateral banks under the cross-debarment agreement, jointly recognized the
debarment of 295 entities. Under the cross-debarment agreement, a company declared
ineligible from bidding on a World Bank–financed project is also ineligible from bidding
on development projects financed by other multilateral development banks that have
signed the agreement. The deterrent effect of such action contributes significantly to
promoting compliance standards and leveling the playing field for companies interested
in development.
     Good governance and strong, accountable institutions are crucial for poverty
reduction and development effectiveness. The Bank actively encourages governments
to become more transparent, more accountable to their citizens, less susceptible
to corruption, and better at delivering services. In fiscal 2013, 11.7 percent of Bank
lending and grant financing, about $3.9 billion, went to help countries improve the
performance and accountability of their core public sector institutions. Bank projects
under implementation during fiscal years 2010–12 helped 57 countries to upgrade their
public financial management systems, 28 countries to strengthen their civil service and
public administration systems, 27 countries to improve their tax policy and administration,
and 11 countries to enhance their procurement systems. The Bank also helps strengthen
public expenditure policy accountability through its BOOST tool, which creates user-friendly databases from detailed government expenditure data, facilitates rigorous
expenditure analysis, and supports fiscal transparency.
     The Bank is committed to independent assessments of its policies, programs, and
projects, which help it achieve better development results. These assessments are carried
out by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG), which reports directly to the Board. In
fiscal 2013, IEG completed its third evaluation on climate change, which focused on
adaptation. It recommended developing reference guidelines for incorporating climate
risk management into project and program design, appraisal, and implementation. IEG
also conducted sector and thematic evaluations of the World Bank Group’s response to
the global food crisis; IFC’s trade finance program; and Bank programs on innovation
and entrepreneurship, management of forest resources, and sustainable transport
infrastructure. At the country level, IEG completed evaluations of knowledge-based
country programs and Afghanistan. (See ieg.worldbank.org.)
     As part of its commitment to managing its corporate environmental and social
impact, the Bank measures, reduces, offsets, and reports on the greenhouse gas emissions
associated with its global facilities, major meetings, and air travel. In fiscal 2013, the Bank
set a goal of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 2017 to 10 percent below its 2010
baseline.
     Total emissions for the Bank’s global facilities, including those for business travel and
major meetings, were approximately 174,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
in fiscal 2012, the most recent data available. To maintain carbon neutrality, the Bank
purchases offsets for corporate emissions that cannot be reduced—Verified Emissions
Reduction credits for facilities and travel and Renewable Energy Certificates for electricity
consumption. In fiscal 2013, the Bank maintained carbon neutrality with the purchase
of verified carbon credits from a run-of-the-river hydropower project in Chile; a bundled
wind energy project in Gujarat State, India; and a REDD+ Project in the Democratic
Republic of Congo. (See crinfo.worldbank.org.)




RESULT
              165,000 people
              in the rural areas of Samoa became new mobile phone subscribers
              between 2002 and 2011.


PROSPERITY




                 The Regions
             The World Bank today operates out of more than 120 offices
             worldwide. An increased presence in client countries is helping the
             Bank to better understand, work more effectively with, and provide
             more timely services to its partners in those countries. Ninety-two
             percent of Country Directors/Country Managers and 39 percent
             of staff are based in country offices. The Bank’s work in its six
             geographic regions is as diverse as the member countries within
             each region. The following section highlights the major goals
             achieved, projects undertaken, strategies revised, and publications
             produced in fiscal 2013. Selected results stories are also presented,
             along with a snapshot of facts and figures about each region. For
             more information, visit worldbank.org/countries.

                       	   Africa
                       	   East Asia and Pacific
                       	   Europe and Central Asia
                       	   Latin America and The Caribbean
                       	   Middle East and North Africa
                       	   South Asia

AFRICA                                                        SUDAN  Sarah Farhat/The World Bank



AFRICA
Economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa remained robust in 2012. Output increased
by an estimated 4.7 percent, and projections for 2013–15 forecast growth of more than
5 percent a year. Poverty has declined, with the share of people living on less than $1.25
a day falling from 58 percent in 1996 to about 48 percent in 2010. These improvements
notwithstanding, enormous development challenges remain.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $8.2 billion for 95 projects this fiscal year. Support included $42 million
from IBRD and $8.2 billion from IDA. The leading sectors were Transportation ($1.8 billion);
Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.8 billion); and Energy and Mining ($1.2 billion).
Building on the Africa strategy adopted in 2011, the focuses were on energy, transport,
education, health, agriculture, social protection, water, and urban development.

Finding regional solutions
Africa’s infrastructure deficit imposes a significant economic cost on the continent,
reducing growth by up to 2 percentage points a year. Recognizing the need for regional
solutions, the Bank is working to support countries in transformational projects that
reach beyond a single country. One example is the Kandadji Program, which integrates
regional, national, and local efforts and promotes greater synergy among the agriculture,
environment, energy, and water sectors in the Niger River Basin. In October 2012, the
Bank approved $203 million to finance Phase 2A of the Niger Basin Water Resources
Development and Sustainable Ecosystems Management Program, part of its long-term
solution to recurring drought and chronic food and power shortages in the Sahel. This
zero-interest loan from IDA will benefit some of the poorest countries in the world.
Financed by 10 donors, the program will help to increase food production, generate more
electricity, create jobs, and develop economic opportunities for communities in the Niger
Basin. It will be part of the West Africa Power Pool, which improves cross-border flows of
electricity by integrating national power systems into a unified regional system. Programs
like Kandadji will be vital to improving infrastructure in Africa, without which development
will falter.

Building resilience in the Sahel
Drought, poor accessibility to food, environmental degradation, displacement, and
conflict are expected to result in food insecurity for about 10 million people in the Sahel
region in 2013. To address these challenges, the Board of Executive Directors was briefed
about the current situation, and in April 2013, presented “The Sahel—Toward a Regional
Approach,” the region’s new strategy to support development and stability in the Sahel.
The strategy comprises a comprehensive investment program along two strategic pillars:
(1) vulnerability and resilience, and (2) economic opportunity and integration.




Countries Eligible for World Bank Borrowing*
Angola                  Comoros                    The Gambia        Mauritania                Seychelles
Benin                   Democratic Republic        Ghana             Mauritius                 Sierra Leone
Botswana                of Congo                   Guinea            Mozambique                South Africa
Burkina Faso            Republic of Congo          Guinea-Bissau     Namibia                   South Sudan
Burundi                 Côte d’Ivoire              Kenya             Niger                     Swaziland
Cameroon                Equatorial                 Lesotho           Nigeria                   Tanzania
                        Guinea
Cape Verde                                         Liberia           Rwanda                    Togo
                        Eritrea
Central African                                    Madagascar        São Tomé and              Uganda
Republic                Ethiopia                                     Principe
                                                   Malawi                                      Zambia
Chad                    Gabon                                        Senegal
                                                   Mali

* as of June 30, 2013


Improving skills, education, and health
Africans’ skills are being developed on many fronts. Through IDA and in partnership with
the Global Partnership for Education, the Bank is strengthening basic education.
    The Bank is the largest contributor to higher education institutions in Africa. The Africa
Centers of Excellence project—a network of high-quality public health laboratories in the
cross-border areas of Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda—could significantly build
capacity in science and technology.
    At the 2013 Spring Meetings, the Bank and the U.S. Department of State hosted
the “Africa Health Forum 2013: Finance and Capacity for Results” in collaboration with
Harmonization for Health in Africa. Drawing ministers of finance and health from 30
African countries, the forum sought feedback on the needs of African countries and
shared key messages, including the message that better health, nutrition, and population
outcomes preceded economic growth around the world and are thus indispensable to
development.
    The Bank has been spearheading the shift toward greater emphasis on results in
health. Initial outcomes from results-based pilot projects in 15 African countries have been
promising. The Health Millennium Development Goals Program for Results in Ethiopia,
approved in 2013, is the first program to use the Bank’s new Program-for-Results (PforR)
financing instrument on health in Africa.

Increasing knowledge
The region’s knowledge products highlight ideas that change the way practitioners think
about African development. Africa Can Help Feed Africa, released in 2012, identifies the
regulatory barriers to trade and competition that must be removed if Africa is to reach
its potential in regional food trade. It suggests that regional trade in staples, which is not
being exploited, offers the potential to improve food security and growth.
     Growing Africa: Unlocking the Potential of Agribusiness, published in 2013, shows how
Africa’s farmers and agribusinesses could create a trillion dollar food market by 2030. It
recommends engaging with strategic “good practice” investors, strengthening safeguards
and land administration systems, and screening investments for sustainable growth.




TABLE 1  AFRICA
Regional commitments and disbursements for FISCAL 2011, 2012, and 2013

                                 Commitments ($ millions)                    Disbursements ($ millions)
                          FY11            FY12              FY13      FY11             FY12               FY13
         IBRD              $56            $147               $42      $665             $488               $429
          IDA             $7,004          $7,379            $8,203   $4,925           $5,746           $5,799
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2013: $42.5 billion.


                                                                                      T he R e g ions            25
Africa Results Highlights
• In the Central African Republic, with Bank support to a multisector emergency program,
   118,862 people were tested for HIV, and antiretroviral treatment was provided to 1,719 people,
   as of 2012. And about 100,000 insecticide-treated nets were distributed to pregnant women
   and children under age 5 to prevent malaria.

• In Kenya, with support from the World Bank’s Water and Sanitation Program, local committees
   made up of community representatives were established to act as intermediaries between
   consumers and water service providers. In the program’s first two years, the groups solicited
   over 400 complaints and successfully resolved 97 percent of them, some which had been
   outstanding for over 3 years.

  The Health Results-Based Financing trust-funded project in Zimbabwe provides grants to local
• 
  hospitals and clinics that remove user fees on maternal and child health services. As of 2012,
  participating health facilities immunized more than 212,600 children, and 135,921 pregnant
  women received prenatal care during a visit to a health provider.

For more results, go to worldbank.org/results.




Figure 1  AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $8.2 billion

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection         5%    12%            Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry


                                                            8%                              Education
Transportation                      22%
                                                              15%                  Energy and Mining

Public Administration,
                                                              < 1%                            Finance
Law, and Justice                    22%
                                                            12%      Health and Other Social Services

Information and Communications                   1%   3%                           Industry and Trade




Figure 2  AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $8.2 billion
                                                                            Environment and Natural
Economic Management                             < 1% 6%                      Resources Management

Urban Development                         14%                                   Financial and Private
                                                            13%                 Sector Development


Trade and Integration               16%                       8%               Human Development


Social Protection                                            11%           Public Sector Governance
and Risk Management                   11%                   1%                            Rule of Law

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion                       3%        16%                         Rural Development




TABLE 2  AFRICA
regional snapshot
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                               664                756                910
   Population growth (annual %)                              2.7                2.6                 2.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)                493                765               1,345
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          0.9                3.0                 1.5
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                            376b                395                414
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  51                 53                 56
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    49                 51                 54
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                62                —                   67
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  76                —                   76
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              61                 63                 63
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              77                 76                 76
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              12                 16                 22
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                       552                629                724
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             0.8                0.8                 0.9
   (metric tons)


progress toward the MDGs
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
                       MDG
                                                          baseline            data               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             51.3               41.5               25.6
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              52                 70                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              81                 90                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                             107                 69                 36
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                 178                109                 59

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             850                500                 213
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              48                 61                 74
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              26                 31                 63
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2008 and 2012; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.


                                                        VIETNAM  Ngan Hong Nguyen/The World Bank



east asia and pacific
East Asia and Pacific remained the fastest-growing developing region in the world in
2012. It was an engine of growth during the recent global turmoil, contributing about 40
percent of the increase in global output in 2012. China’s growth slowed to 7.8 percent in
2012, down from 9.3 percent in 2011, but growth in the other developing economies of
the region rose to 6.2 percent, up from 4.5 percent in 2011.
    The proportion of people living in poverty in the region has steadily declined: less than
10 percent of the region’s population now lives on $1.25 a day. Much more work needs to
be done to build shared prosperity, however, as close to half a billion people are still living
on just $2 a day.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $6.2 billion for the region for 47 projects this fiscal year. Support
included $3.7 billion in IBRD loans and $2.6 billion in IDA commitments. The leading
sectors were Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.4 billion); Transportation
($1.1 billion); and Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection ($1.1 billion).
    The Bank’s strategy in the region focuses on five development challenges: poverty
reduction and inequality, climate change and disaster risk management, urbanization
and infrastructure, governance and institutions, and private sector–led growth and job
creation. Growth and job creation are critical for reducing poverty and building shared
prosperity, particularly given the high rates of youth unemployment and the informality
of the labor market.

Reengaging with Myanmar
A key priority in fiscal 2013 was reengaging with Myanmar after a 25-year absence. In
August 2012, the Bank and IFC opened an office in Yangon. A second office is planned in
the capital city of Nay Pyi Taw. The new Interim Support Strategy, approved by the Board in
November 2012, will guide the Bank’s work through March 2014. The Bank also provided
a $440 million credit to support critical reforms and help Myanmar clear its arrears, paving
the way for full reengagement. An $80 million grant is supporting a national, community-driven development project to enable villagers to improve schools, clinics, roads, and the
water supply.

Electrifying rural areas
In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the Bank and IFC continued to support Phase II
of the $35 million Rural Electrification Project, which seeks to extend the electricity grid
to rural households and promote off-grid renewable energy throughout the country.
The project’s Power to the Poor Program provides interest-free credit for poor families particularly households headed by women to connect them to the grid. Thanks in part
to these efforts, access to electricity has risen from only 15 percent of households in 1995
to more than 80 percent today.


Countries Eligible for World Bank Borrowing*
Cambodia                Republic of Korea           Federated           Papua New Guinea          Timor-Leste
China                   Lao People’s                States of           Philippines               Tonga
                        Democratic Republic         Micronesia
Fiji                                                                    Samoa                     Tuvalu
                        Malaysia                    Mongolia
Indonesia                                                               Solomon Islands           Vanuatu
                        Marshall Islands            Myanmar
Kiribati                                                                Thailand                  Vietnam
                                                    Palau




* as of June 30, 2013




Reducing poverty and inequality
In Indonesia, the Bank is managing a multidonor facility that supports the National
Program for Community Empowerment (PNPM), which has generated employment,
significantly raised incomes for more than 100 million poor or near-poor people, and
built infrastructure that benefits the poor. PNPM Generasi—a pilot program that uses the
PNPM platform to improve health and education outcomes—has helped decrease child
malnutrition by 9.5 percent and increase primary and junior secondary school enrolment
rates by 22–35 percent in pilot areas.

Opening up markets and opportunities in the Pacific
In Kiribati, Samoa, Tonga, and Tuvalu, the Bank is working to open up markets and
opportunities by supporting safe and efficient air travel, which is critical to connecting
these small island states to one another and to larger markets, as well as supporting
tourism. The Pacific Islands Aviation Investment Program is helping to improve airport
infrastructure and safety to enable airports to meet international standards. The Bank has
also worked to open telecommunications markets across the Pacific, achieving dramatic
increases in mobile penetration in Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, the Solomon Islands,
Timor-Leste, and Vanuatu by helping to introduce competition. In less than 10 years, Fiji,
Samoa, Tonga, and Vanuatu have reached access levels of more than 70 percent.

Pursuing joint business strategies
The Bank, IFC, and MIGA worked together on business strategies in the region in fiscal
2013. The projects included efforts to improve the financial sector in Indonesia, improve
livelihoods through agriculture in Mongolia, expand access to electricity in Myanmar,
increase women’s empowerment in the Pacific, improve agribusiness in a postconflict
zone in the southern part of the Philippines, and promote efficiency and value addition
in agriculture in Vietnam. The three institutions are working together on the Singapore
Hub, focusing on infrastructure finance and building on the development experience of
Singapore and other countries in the region.

Forging knowledge partnerships to deliver solutions
Knowledge is playing an increasingly important role in the Bank’s partnerships. This
fiscal year, the Bank and China launched a knowledge hub–sharing initiative to help
China disseminate practical development experiences within its borders and abroad, with
TABLE 3  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Regional commitments and disbursements for FISCAL 2011, 2012, and 2013

                                  Commitments ($ millions)                      Disbursements ($ millions)
                           FY11            FY12                  FY13    FY11             FY12               FY13
         IBRD             $6,370           $5,431            $3,661     $3,964           $3,970           $3,621
          IDA             $1,627           $1,197            $2,586     $1,238           $1,484           $1,764
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2013: $30.4 billion.

                                                                                         T he R e g ions            29
East Asia and Pacific Results Highlights
 By the end of 2012, an estimated 3.3 million residents in the Philippines benefited from the
• 
  Manila Third Sewerage Project, which delivered improved sanitation services and better
  treatment plants. More than 77,000 water connections with sewerage treatment were
  provided from 2005 to 2012.

  The World Bank–financed Early Childhood Education and Development Project has increased
• 
  access to services among 3,000 targeted poor villages across Indonesia since 2007. To date,
  approximately 6,000 education centers have been established in 50 districts, and more than
  half a million children ages 0 to 6 years have attended these centers.

  The Avian and Human Influenza Control, Preparedness, and Response Project strengthened
• 
  the capacity of Mongolia’s emergency agencies, hospitals, and veterinary services to detect
  and respond to potential outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as an avian and human
  influenza pandemic. Significant progress was made in the scale and speed with which
  laboratory test results are processed, enabling faster and more effective treatment of both
  people and animals.

For more results, go to worldbank.org/results.


an initial focus on urban transport. The World Bank Group also announced plans to
open an office in the Republic of Korea to leverage Korea’s development experience,
including its knowledge of financial sector and private sector development, for the benefit
of countries in the region and beyond. The Bank continues to build partnerships with the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Australian Government Overseas Aid
Program (AusAID), the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the Pacific Island
Forum, and many other partners in order to maximize development impact.

Figure 3  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $6.2 billion

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection         17%     3%              Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

                                                             9%                                Education

                                                                  12%                 Energy and Mining
Transportation                      18%
                                                                  5%                             Finance

                                                                  9%     Health and Other Social Services
                                                              4%                      Industry and Trade

Public Administration, Law, and Justice           23%        1%         Information and Communications

Figure 4  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $6.2 billion
                                                                              Environment and Natural
Economic Management                               1%    11%                    Resources Management

Urban Development                         14%                                      Financial and Private
                                                              11%                  Sector Development
Trade and Integration                  4%

Social Protection                                                 11%             Human Development
and Risk Management               8%
Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion             7%                              11%         Public Sector Governance


Rural Development                           21%          < 1%                               Rule of Law


                                                                             T he R e g ions          30
TABLE 4  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
regional snapshot
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                         Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                              1,812              1,893              1,992
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.0                0.8                 0.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)                899               1,612              4,885
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          6.4                8.8                 6.7
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                            656b                332                251
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  72                 73                 74
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    68                 69                 71
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                98                —                   99
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  98                —                   99
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              68                 66                 65
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              83                 82                 81
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              17                 17                 18
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      4,219              6,883              8,934
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             2.3                3.6                 4.6
   (metric tons)

progress toward the MDGs
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
                       MDG
                                                          baseline            dataa               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             54.9               12.9               27.4
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant                                                                            Met at outset
                                                             100                 97                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              88                102                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              42                 17                 14
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                  56                 21                 19

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             220                 83                 55
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              68                 90                 84
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              30                 66                 65
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2008 and 2012; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.


                                                                                                              T he R e g ions            31
                                                        AZERBAIJAN  Allison Kwesell/The World Bank



EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
GDP growth in Europe and Central Asia was uneven in 2012. In Central and
Southeastern Europe, output declined, and growth is forecast to be anemic in 2013. In
the Commonwealth of Independent States, recovery was more resilient, thanks largely
to high commodity prices, but growth rates still remain below their precrisis levels. These
countries and Turkey are forecast to grow about 4 percent in 2013.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $5.3 billion for the region for 42 projects this fiscal year. Support
included $4.6 billion in IBRD loans and $729 million in IDA commitments. The leading
sectors were Public Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.3 billion); Finance ($1.2 billion);
and Transportation ($916 million). Lending was guided by a strategy based on three pillars:
economic competitiveness, social inclusion, and climate action. In addition to its lending
and technical assistance, the Bank produced important research on the region this fiscal
year.
    Middle-income countries requiring services that cannot be fully funded by the Bank’s
own resources are increasingly using Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS). Through
RAS agreements, the Bank provides clients with analytic and advisory services to help
advance their development objectives. In fiscal 2013, the Bank signed 35 RAS agreements
with eight countries in the region, along with two regional RAS agreements, focusing
on such issues as innovation, competitiveness, real estate modernization, agricultural
administration, and governance.

Increasing economic competitiveness
Increasing competitiveness requires improving governance and the investment climate,
providing stable and effective financial intermediation, upgrading the skills of the labor
force, building and maintaining energy and transport infrastructure, and increasing the
efficiency of public spending. To achieve these goals, the Bank has helped to modernize
tax administration in Armenia and Romania; improve roads in Armenia and Serbia;
improve the business environment and policies conducive to innovation in Croatia,
Georgia, and the Russian Federation; increase access to finance for small and medium
enterprises in Turkey; and stabilize public finances and strengthen financial sector
regulations in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
    Findings in the regional report Eurasian Cities: New Realities along the Silk Road show
that the cities of Eurasia need readjusting in order to be competitive in a market economy.
Policy makers can support this transformation through better urban planning, faster
transport and communication connections, integrated public services, and more efficient
financing—actions some of the most progressive cities in the region have already
undertaken.




Countries Eligible for World Bank Borrowing*
Albania                 Bulgaria                    Kosovo            Montenegro                Tajikistan
Armenia                 Croatia                     Latvia            Poland                    Turkey
Azerbaijan              Georgia                     Former Yugoslav   Romania                   Turkmenistan
Belarus                 Kazakhstan                  Republic of       Russian                   Ukraine
                                                    Macedonia         Federation
Bosnia and              Kyrgyz Republic                                                         Uzbekistan
Herzegovina                                         Moldova           Serbia




* as of June 30, 2013




Fostering social inclusion
The Bank is working with countries in the region to improve the efficiency of their
social safety nets, adjust these programs so that they provide incentives for labor force
participation, and increase access to better health care and education. In Armenia and
Uzbekistan, it is helping to improve health services. In the Kyrgyz Republic and Moldova,
it is working with the governments to improve the quality and accountability of schools.
      The Bank focused attention on two long-term challenges in the region this fiscal year:
jobs and pensions. It also published a regional report on health, Getting Better: Improving
Health System Outcomes in Europe and Central Asia, which explores the challenges facing
the health sector and identifies key policies for improving health system outcomes and
achieving faster convergence with the world’s best-performing systems.

Addressing the challenges of climate action
Climate change is putting stress on the land, water, and energy resources in the region,
which decades of environmental mismanagement have left highly vulnerable to even
modest increases in global warming. To deal with the risks, the Bank is acting on a number
of fronts. It is financing disaster risk mitigation and climate change mitigation in Moldova,
supporting reforms to provide incentives for efficient energy use in Turkey, and investing
in sustainable forest management and enhanced environmental resilience in Uzbekistan.
     The Bank published four new studies on climate change in fiscal 2013. Growing Green:
The Economic Benefits of Climate Action provides practical policy options for achieving a
greener growth path by prioritizing investments in energy efficiency, expanding the use
of cleaner energy, and improving natural resources management. Energy Efficiency: Lessons
Learned from Success Stories analyzes the policies of countries in the European Union that
have improved energy efficiency the most. Balancing Act: Cutting Energy Subsidies While
Protecting Affordability demonstrates how to ensure that climate action supports social
inclusion by addressing the social impacts of higher energy prices. Looking Beyond the
Horizon: How Climate Change Impacts and Adaptation Responses Will Reshape Agriculture
in Eastern Europe and Central Asia shows that priority measures for adapting to climate
change can increase agricultural productivity and contribute to development goals.


TABLE 5  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Regional commitments and disbursements for FISCAL 2011, 2012, and 2013

                                  Commitments ($ millions)                    Disbursements ($ millions)
                           FY11            FY12              FY13      FY11             FY12               FY13
         IBRD             $5,470           $6,233            $4,591   $6,873           $5,654          $3,583
          IDA              $655            $362              $729      $585             $482               $468
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2013: $24.6 billion.




                                                                                       T he R e g ions            33
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA Results Highlights
• In 2009, Armenia launched the Access to Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises Project
   with World Bank support. Under the project, businesses had access to loans with better
   interest and repayment terms than many banks could otherwise offer. Between 2009 and
   2012, more than 7,500 SMEs had taken out credit lines to sustain their businesses.

• In Tajikistan, with funding from the European Union Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund
   administered by the Bank between November 2010 and December 2011, more than 402,000
   man/days of work were created for 10,600 people, which benefited more than 302,000 people
   among the most food insecure rural population.

• In Turkey, the Bank supported a participatory approach to natural resource management
   in Anatolia that led to improvements in rural livelihoods. Between 2005 and 2012, land
   rehabilitation increased household incomes from microcatchments by 53 percent, increased
   vegetative cover by 77 percent, and improved soil fertility on sloping lands by more than 20
   percent.

For more results, go to worldbank.org/results.




Figure 5  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $5.3 billion

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection           3%    4%            Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry
                                                         1%                                  Education
Transportation                        17%
                                                                6%                  Energy and Mining

Public Administration,                                          23%                            Finance
Law, and Justice                    25%

                                                              12%     Health and Other Social Services

Information and Communications              < 1%        9%                          Industry and Trade




Figure 6  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $5.3 billion
                                                                            Environment and Natural
Economic Management                                4%    7%                  Resources Management

Urban Development                            5%                                  Financial and Private
                                                              23%                Sector Development
Trade and Integration                14%

Social Protection
and Risk Management                15%
                                                               6%               Human Development
Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion                 < 1%                    11%           Public Sector Governance

Rural Development                            6%         9%                                 Rule of Law




                                                                           T he R e g ions          34
TABLE 6  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
regional snapshot
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                               257                260                272
   Population growth (annual %)                              0.3                0.4                 0.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)               1,907              3,493              6,655
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          5.5                6.6                 1.5
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                             18b                 6                   3
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                 73                  74                 75
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                   65                  66                 68
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)               98                 ­—                  99
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                 99                 —                   99
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                             46                  44                 46
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                             69                  68                 69
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              7                  11                 17
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      1,191              1,313              1,345
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             4.6                5.0                 5.1
   (metric tons)

progress toward the MDGs
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
                       MDG
                                                          baseline            dataa               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             1.4                 0.6                0.7
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              95                 98                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              97                 97                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              40                 18                 13
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                  48                 21                 16

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                              70                 32                 18
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              90                 96                 95
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              80                 84                 90
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2008 and 2012; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                        NICARAGUA  Maria Victoria Ojea/The World Bank



LATIN AMERICA AND THE caribbean
GDP in Latin America and the Caribbean grew 3 percent in 2012. Growth is expected to
remain robust, at 3.5 percent, as strong domestic demand compensates for weak global
economic conditions.
    Steady growth and sound economic policies improved the lives of millions in the region
over the past decade, with more than 70 million people lifted out of poverty and 50 million
joining the ranks of the middle class between 2003 and 2011. For the first time ever, the
number of people belonging to the middle class surpassed the number of poor, a sign that
Latin America and the Caribbean is progressing toward becoming a middle-class region.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $5.2 billion for 41 projects this fiscal year. Support included $435
million from IDA and $4.8 billion in IBRD commitments. The leading sectors were Public
Administration, Law, and Justice ($2.1 billion); Health and Other Social Services ($891
million); and Transportation ($694 million). The Bank’s focus is on improving opportunities
for the bottom 40 percent of the population by ensuring them better access to basic
services, including education and health, without neglecting environmental sustainability
in the region.
    In line with the World Bank’s overall strategy to reduce poverty and promote shared
prosperity, its work in the region will continue to address the five core areas that follow.

Promoting shared prosperity
Despite the impressive gains of the past decade, the region remains unequal, with some 82
million people living on less than $2.50 per day. Creating opportunities for the vulnerable is
at the top of the Bank’s regional agenda. Another priority is to carve out a greater economic
role for women. More than 70 million women joined the labor market in the past decade,
but income disparities and balancing work and family life still remain large issues.

Boosting growth and productivity
The region’s extraordinary recent growth and its ability to weather the global recession
contrast with outcomes in other regions, including developed countries. However, to
move forward, productivity will need to improve. The educational system does not meet
global standards, infrastructure is outdated, and logistics costs are high. Throughout
Central America, expanding trade integration and logistics is a priority. It is essential, for
example, to unclog the bottlenecks associated with transport, customs clearance, and
rural roads, which make it 10 times more expensive to ship tomatoes from Costa Rica to
Nicaragua than to California.

Building more efficient states
Access to quality public services remains a challenge. Citizens have high expectations,
yet in many countries, the government lacks the capacity to meet their demands. About
7 percent of the population does not have access to safe water, and 20 percent of Latin

Countries Eligible for World Bank Borrowing*
Antigua and             Colombia                    Guatemala          Panama                    Suriname
Barbuda                 Costa Rica                  Guyana             Paraguay                  Trinidad and Tobago
Argentina               Dominica                    Haiti              Peru                      Uruguay
Belize                  Dominican Republic          Honduras           St. Kitts and Nevis       República
Plurinational State     Ecuador                     Jamaica            St. Lucia                 Bolivariana de
of Bolivia                                                                                       Venezuela
                        El Salvador                 Mexico             St. Vincent and the
Brazil                                                                 Grenadines
                        Grenada                     Nicaragua
Chile


* as of June 30, 2013




Americans still lack access to sanitation. Citizen security is another development challenge
for many countries, especially small ones. Law enforcement, security, and health care costs
amount to almost 8 percent of Central America’s GDP, 5 percent of Brazil’s, and 3.7 percent
of Jamaica’s. Governments are eager to develop an integrated response to growing crime
and violence. The Bank has been supporting these efforts through financing as well as
with high-level knowledge exchanges. Looking for novel approaches to gender violence,
a Bank-supported regionwide hackathon produced several mobile applications to fight a
scourge that affects about half of the female population in parts of Central America.

Supporting inclusive and sustainable growth
The region has served as a global laboratory for some of the most innovative practices
for sustaining natural wealth. Accounting for only 6 percent of global greenhouse gas
emissions from the power sector, the region has the lowest carbon energy matrix of the
developing world. It has also adopted payment schemes for preserving the environment.
But the economic bonanza of recent years has led to exploding urbanization: over 80
percent of the region’s population lives in cities. Inclusive and sustainable growth is
paramount for the region’s development and for preserving natural resources for future
generations.

Preparing for natural hazards
The region is home to 9 of the top 20 countries exposed to natural disasters, and the
effects of such hazards cost governments about $2 billion annually. Countries have
become more disaster savvy, but a greater shift toward prevention is needed. The Bank
provides tools and mechanisms to boost resilience, including cutting-edge instruments,
such as catastrophic risk insurance. For example, since the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, the
Bank has provided housing grants to more than 60,000 people, which have allowed
them to move from camps to safer housing. It has upgraded neighborhoods with wider
roads, better lighting, and fortified ravines, and has repaired or rebuilt homes. In other
parts of the region, such as Colombia, Honduras, and Mexico, the Bank is supporting
comprehensive disaster risk management strategies.

Working with member countries
The World Bank supports the region’s broad agenda by tailoring its diverse financial,
knowledge, and convening services to the region’s diverse needs. The Bank helped to

TABLE 7 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Regional commitments and disbursements for FISCAL 2011, 2012, and 2013

                                  Commitments ($ millions)                     Disbursements ($ millions)
                           FY11            FY12                 FY13    FY11             FY12               FY13
         IBRD             $9,169           $6,181           $4,769      $8,376          $6,726           $5,308
          IDA              $460            $448                 $435    $322             $342               $273
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2013: $30.8 billion.

latin america and the caribbean results highlights
  The Procurement Reform Project launched in Mexico in December 2009 eliminated nearly 600
• 
  obsolete regulations and improved transparency. In three years, the project saved $1 billion and
  boosted electronic processing from 30,000 transactions to more than 70,000. It increased the
  participation of small and medium enterprises to 36 percent of contracts awarded in one year.

• In Haiti, the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project succeeded in giving clean water access
   to more than 33,000 people over the past four years. The project also improved sanitation
   conditions for 3,700 students and teachers in six communities with the construction of school
   latrines.

  Argentina is the pilot country for a project to reduce traffic fatalities. The project created the
• 
  Ibero-American Road Safety Observatory, a virtual platform in which 22 countries exchange
  experiences and gather statistics crucial for effective policy solutions. Argentina reduced its
  drunk-driving rates in three years by 50 percent and its fatalities in two years by 10 percent.

For more results, go to worldbank.org/results.



address pressing needs through development project financing; innovative mechanisms,
such as the Climate Investment Funds; and ­     in-depth development research, such as the
2012 flagship report Economic Mobility and the Rise of the Latin American Middle Class.
    As the conditions in member countries evolve, the Bank will continue to partner with
them to focus efforts on their development priorities. New Country Partnership Strategies
for Guatemala and Nicaragua, for example, support government efforts to enhance
competitiveness and sustainable growth and to move toward a more equitable society.
An Interim Strategy for Haiti focuses on long-term development, capacity building, and
the provision of social services to all citizens.

Figure 7 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $5.2 billion

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection          2%    6%                Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

Transportation                            13%
                                                             12%                                Education
                                                               3%                      Energy and Mining
                                                                3%                                Finance

                                                                  17%    Health and Other Social Services

                                                             3%                        Industry and Trade
Public Administration,
Law, and Justice                           40%           < 1%           Information and Communications


Figure 8 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $5.2 billion
                                                                               Environment and Natural
Economic Management                              3% 8%                          Resources Management

Urban Development                           7%                                      Financial and Private
                                                                4%                  Sector Development
Trade and Integration               4%
Social Protection                                                 19%              Human Development
and Risk Management                16%

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion                6%                       21%              Public Sector Governance


Rural Development                          12%        < 1%                                    Rule of Law


                                                                              T he R e g ions          38
TABLE 8 LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
regional snapshot
                                                                                                 Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                  dataa
   Total population (millions)                               500                536                 581
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.5                 1.3                1.2
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)               3,731              4,326               9,025
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          3.0                 3.2                1.8
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                             60b                 48                 32
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  75                 76                 77
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    68                 70                 71
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                97                 ­—                 97
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  96                 —                  97
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              48                 52                 54
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              81                 81                 80
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              16                 21                 25
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      1,225              1,371               1,459
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             2.4                 2.6                2.6
   (metric tons)

progress toward the MDGs
                                                           1990               Current              2015                    Trend +
                       MDG
                                                          baseline             dataa              target                 2015 target
   MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             11.5                5.3                5.7
   below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
   MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              83                 102                100
   age group)
   MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and                                                                         Met at outset
                                                             101                 102                100
   secondary education (%)
   MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                             428                 16                  14
   births)

   MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                 53                 19                  18

   MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             140                 81                  35
   estimate, per 100,000 live births)
   MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              86                 94                  93
   (% population with access)
   MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              68                 79                  84
   (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2008 and 2012; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                      WEST BANK AND GAZA  Arne Hoel/The World Bank



middle east and north africa
Historic political and economic changes continued to reshape the Middle East and North
Africa, with the pace and nature of change differing widely across countries. Whether
these political changes will be meaningful depends on the extent to which they lead to
concrete social and economic improvements—particularly job creation for the millions of
unemployed people, especially youth. Job-creating economic growth is thus critical in this
region.
    Regional GDP grew 6.4 percent in 2012, up from 3.1 percent in 2011, when political
turmoil dampened growth. The projected slowdown in growth to 3.8 percent in 2013
largely reflects a return to more sustainable growth in some oil-exporting countries,
whose growth surged in 2012, offsetting a similar drop the previous year. Only 2 percent
of the region’s population lives in extreme poverty (on less than $1.25 a day), but almost
14 percent—4 million people—live on less than $2 a day.

World Bank assistance
Bank support reached $2.1 billion for 16 projects in fiscal 2013, including $1.8 billion
from IBRD and $249 million from IDA. The Bank also committed $56.4 million in special
financing for the West Bank and Gaza.
    In addition to its financing, the Bank delivered 74 economic and sector work products
and nonlending technical assistance products to the region. The Reimbursable Advisory
Services (RAS) framework allows the Bank not only to work with client governments but
also to provide analytic and advisory services to subnational governments, state-owned
enterprises, nongovernmental organizations, and multilateral institutions. In recent years,
the Bank increased the services it provides to members of the Gulf Cooperation Council
via RAS agreements. The focuses of these agreements have been on employment, water
security, education, urban development, and energy security.
    In response to the momentous political transformations in the region, the
Bank developed a new framework for engagement. In addition to listening to new
governments in order to build programs of support that meet their specific development
goals, the Bank expanded its consultations to include a broad range of stakeholders
across civil society whose voices were less accessible under earlier regimes. Building on
the demands of the Arab Spring and the reform efforts under way, the new framework
is based on four main pillars governance, inclusion, jobs, and sustainable growth with cross-cutting beams of regional and global integration, gender, and private
sector development. The Bank also created the MENA Transition Fund, with an initial
capitalization of $250 million, at the request of the Deauville Partnership led by the
countries of the Group of Eight (G-8) and the Gulf. Implemented in partnership with 11
international organizations in six transition economies (the Arab Republic of Egypt, Jordan,
Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, and the Republic of Yemen), the fund will provide technical
assistance on implementing policy and institutional reforms under those pillars.




Countries Eligible for World Bank Borrowing*
Algeria                  Islamic Republic             Jordan             Morocco
Djibouti                 of Iran                      Lebanon            Tunisia
Arab Republic            Iraq                         Libya              Republic of Yemen
of Egypt

This section also reports on the West Bank and Gaza.




* as of June 30, 2013




Strengthening governance
Transparency and accountability are crucial to creating responsive states that are held
accountable for their actions. The Bank is seeking to improve both in a variety of ways.
The new $500 million Development Policy Loan to Tunisia fosters more transparent public
governance and improvements in the delivery of social services. In the Republic of Yemen,
in addition to supporting the national dialogue with knowledge assistance, the Bank created
a new Government and Civil Society Organization Partnership and approved a $5 million
Public Financial Management Loan to enhance public sector capacity in this critical area.

Increasing social and economic inclusion
This fiscal year, the Bank released Inclusion and Resilience: The Way Forward for Social
Safety Nets in the Middle East and North Africa Region. The report shows how safety nets
in the region can be enhanced to build human capital, prevent destitution, and replace
untargeted and inefficient subsidies.
    The Bank is supporting economic measures and other efforts to enhance the voice
and participation of women and minorities in the region. In fiscal 2013, it provided $30
million to a social promotion project in Lebanon that focuses on marginalized populations.
Larger projects in Morocco and the Republic of Yemen are seeking to improve educational
outcomes, including those for underserved populations. Additional funding to the Yemen
Social Fund will enhance its ability to deliver services to the poor.

Creating jobs
Sustainable private sector jobs—particularly for youth and women—are critical to both
economic development and political stability in the region. To help countries create these
jobs, the Bank published Jobs for Shared Prosperity: Time for Action in the Middle East and
North Africa, which identifies steps for breaking out of the trap of high unemployment and
slow growth. The Bank also financed a $70 million Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises
Development for Inclusive Growth Project in Jordan. In Lebanon, it provided $30 million to
a project that provides financing to start-ups. In Morocco, a $160 million loan focuses on
improving the business environment.
    In March, the Bank released Opening Doors: Gender Equality and Development in the
Middle East and North Africa, according to which young women in many countries in the
region face unemployment rates as high as 40 percent. The report provides hard evidence
of the need to create a large and diverse set of job opportunities, for both women and men.

TABLE 9  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Regional commitments and disbursements for FISCAL 2011, 2012, and 2013

                                    Commitments ($ millions)                     Disbursements ($ millions)
                             FY11            FY12               FY13      FY11               FY12             FY13
         IBRD               $1,942           $1,433             $1,809    $768            $1,901          $1,786
          IDA                $123             $80               $249      $185             $102               $200
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2013: $9.0 billion.

                                                                                          T he R e g ions            41
middle east and north africa results highlights
   Between 2006 and 2011, classroom expansion projects in Djibouti increased access to primary
• 
   school to more than 7,000 children, including approximately 3,300 girls. More than 3,700 school
   staff received training over this period, including teachers, directors, and pedagogical advisers.

   Additional financing to the First Municipal Infrastructure Project in Lebanon contributed
• 
   to the reconstruction of public infrastructure in 178 municipalities, including 175 km of
   roads, more than 10 km of storm water drains, and more than 48 km of retaining walls. It
   directly benefited an estimated 375,427 people with restored basic services and economic
   development opportunities.

  A Bank-supported program in Morocco has helped improve the solid waste sector’s
• 
  governance and professionalize its collection services. Collection services benefit 12 million
  people, or 66 percent of the urban population, and the percentage of collected waste
  disposed in sanitary landfills rose from 10 percent to 32 percent during 2008–11.

For more results, go to worldbank.org/results.


Accelerating sustainable growth
Climate-friendly growth is needed to manage stresses on natural resources. To promote
such growth, the Bank is supporting a variety of projects in the region. In Ouarzazate,
Morocco, the largest solar power project in the world—supported by the Bank, IFC,
the Clean Technology Fund, and multiple partners in the form of a public-private
partnership—came to financial close in May 2013. In Djibouti, a $6 million geothermal
power project will spur economic growth through green technologies. A $130 million loan
to Morocco will improve access to solid waste collection and disposal services in urban
areas, and create up to 70,000 jobs in waste recycling activities. In the Republic of Yemen, a
$40 million road assets management project will help relieve road transport bottlenecks.

Figure 9  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $2.1 billion

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection           5%    10%              Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry
Transportation                                  2%
Public Administration,                                         10%                               Education
Law, and Justice                      16%
Information and Communications        3%
Industry and Trade                    4%
                                                                   29%                 Energy and Mining



Health and Other Social Services          12%          10%                                         Finance

Figure 10  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $2.1 billion
                                                                               Environment and Natural
Economic Management                              < 1% 4%                        Resources Management
Urban Development                          3%
Trade and Integration                 2%
Social Protectio n
and Risk Management              7%
Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion            3%             3%
Rural Development                12%
Rule of Law                      < 1%
Public Sector Governance           8%                                               Financial and Private
Human Development                           15%              48%                    Sector Development


                                                                               T he R e g ions         42
TABLE 10  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
regional snapshot
                                                                                                 Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                  dataa
   Total population (millions)                               277                301                 340
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.8                 1.7                1.7
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)               1,483              1,992              4,210
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          1.2                 2.8               –2.0
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                             14b                 10                  8
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  71                 73                 74
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    68                 69                 70
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                80                ­—                  88
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  90                —                   94
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              18                 20                 20
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              74                 74                 72
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              4                   6                 14
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                       873               1,113              1,321
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             3.2                 3.7                4.1
   (metric tons)

progress toward the MDGs
                                                           1990               Current              2015                    Trend +
                       MDG
                                                          baseline             data              target                 2015 target
   MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                              5.3                2.2                2.7
   below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
   MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              76                 90                 100
   age group)
   MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              80                 93                 100
   secondary education (%)
   MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              54                 26                  18
   births)

   MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                 70                 32                  23

   MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             220                 81                  55
   estimate, per 100,000 live births)
   MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              86                 89                  93
   (% population with access)
   MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              73                 88                  86
   (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2008 and 2012; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

                                                             BANGLADESH  Arne Hoel/The World Bank



South asia
GDP growth in South Asia weakened to 5.4 percent in 2012, down from 7.4 percent in
2011, mainly as a result of a slowdown in India. Regional GDP is projected to grow 5.7
percent in 2013, driven by an increase in export demand, policy reforms in India, stronger
investment activity, and normal agricultural production.

World Bank assistance
With 35 projects approved in fiscal 2013, the Bank is a significant development partner in
South Asia. This fiscal year it provided $378 million in IBRD assistance and $4.1 billion in IDA
assistance. The leading sectors were Health and Other Social Services ($1.1 billion); Public
Administration, Law, and Justice ($1.0 billion); and Education ($609 million).
    Work in the region supports the Bank’s overarching goals to reduce poverty and
promote shared prosperity. Its strategy is based on five pillars: increasing employment and
accelerating growth; enhancing human development and social welfare; strengthening
governance and accountability; reducing weather, disaster, and food vulnerabilities; and
enhancing regional integration and cooperation.

Increasing employment and accelerating growth
South Asia has a young population and the lowest female labor force participation rate
in the world. Absorbing its growing labor force will require the creation of 1.0 million - 
1.2 million jobs every month for the next 20 years. To strengthen policies that are
conducive to inclusive growth, the Bank is working on a new report in which inequality
in income and consumption will be studied alongside inequality of access to and
opportunities for jobs and job success.
    The Bank’s new Country Partnership Strategy for India (2013–17) aims to help the
country achieve its long-term vision of faster, more inclusive growth. As the first country
strategy to set specific goals for reducing poverty and increasing prosperity for the
poorest people, it significantly shifts support toward low-income and special-category
states, where many of India’s poor and disadvantaged live.

Enhancing human development and social welfare
The Bank worked on many fronts to enhance human development in South Asia. A large
share of the portfolio is results focused, linking financing support directly to the achievement
of core milestones that improve service delivery. Education projects focus on raising school
enrollment rates and improving the quality and equity of the training and education system.
Health projects seek to increase the use of skilled birth attendants and ensure that pregnant
women, adolescent girls, and children under age 5 receive basic nutrition services.
    Given the alarming levels of infant and child malnutrition, the Bank emphasizes
policy dialogue, diagnostic studies, and start-up financing support in this area. The Nepal
Agriculture and Food Security Project seeks to enhance food and nutritional security of
targeted communities by increasing the availability of food through crop and livestock


44      T he W or l d B an k A nn ua l R eport 2013
Countries Eligible for World Bank Borrowing*
Afghanistan              Bhutan                     Maldives            Pakistan
Bangladesh               India                      Nepal               Sri Lanka




 * as of June 30, 2013




agriculture and by improving the nutrition of households through diversification of diets
and improved feeding and caring practices (particularly in the first 1,000 days of life).

Strengthening governance and accountability
The Bank is building the capacity of legislative bodies and supreme audit institutions
in their budget oversight roles. It is also helping to implement e-procurement systems,
improve the delivery of public services, and craft right-to-information regulations. For
example, a regional cross-sectoral Bank team was put together to provide an objective,
concise, and standardized indicator-led assessment of Pakistan’s public financial
management system. The objective was to create an understanding of the overall
fiduciary environment of the system and to identify needed reforms.

Reducing weather, disaster, and food vulnerabilities
South Asia suffered more than any other region during previous food and fuel crises.
To help it weather future food crises, the Bank is working with governments to provide
more irrigation and drainage services; reforest land that had been logged; and increase
resilience to extreme weather events, natural disasters, and climate change.
    In September 2012, the Bank approved a $100 million Development Policy Loan to
help the government of Himachal Pradesh, an Indian state in the Himalayas, adapt to
and mitigate the effects of climate change through policies and practices to guide the
development of sustainable hydropower. The loan will empower local communities to
better conserve their watershed, promote cleaner methods of industrial production,
promote environmentally sustainable tourism, and integrate geographic information
systems in decision making.

Enhancing regional cooperation
Regional cooperation and integration are key strategic priorities for South Asia, as limited
intraregional trade; poor air, road, and rail connectivity; and scant trade in energy impede
growth in the region. The Bank is focusing on regional energy trade and connectivity, trade
and transport facilitation, and building public support for regional economic cooperation.
In June 2013, for example, it approved a $99 million project for Nepal to improve logistics
and reduce the costs of bilateral trade between Nepal and India. The Bank is also supporting
strategic engagement with Pakistan, which would like to deepen trade and investment
cooperation with India, through a knowledge generation and dissemination program.

TABLE 11  SOUTH ASIA
Regional commitments and disbursements for FISCAL 2011, 2012, and 2013

                                  Commitments ($ millions)                      Disbursements ($ millions)
                           FY11            FY12                FY13      FY11             FY12               FY13
         IBRD              $3,730          $1,158              $378      $1,233          $1,037          $1,103
          IDA              $6,400          $5,288              $4,096    $3,027          $2,904          $2,724
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2013: $38.2 billion.

                                                                                         T he R e g ions            45
south asia Results Highlights
• In the Maldives, targeted investments since 2009 have helped modernize the banking
    payment system and establish mobile banking; develop a comprehensive, multipillar pension
    system; initiate community-involved environmental management programs; and increase the
    number of trained teachers from 3,400 to 6,000.

   Since 2007, 850,000 poor women in India have mobilized into 67,000 self-help groups and
• 
   4,500 village organizations to promote the social, financial, and economic inclusion of poor
   households. These groups have helped members gain access to credit, improve their food
   security, and begin regular savings.

   Since 2002, a rural renewable-energy project in Sri Lanka has supported the development
• 
   of more than 147 megawatts of renewable energy capacity, helping to improve air quality
   and reduce carbon emissions. More than 116,000 remote rural households—almost 500,000
   people—have also been provided off-grid electricity.

For more results, go to worldbank.org/results.



Providing knowledge and development solutions
Analytical work in Afghanistan is helping the authorities and the international community
to plan for 2014, when the drawdown of most international military forces and the likely
reduction in overall assistance will have a profound impact on the economic and political
landscape. In Sri Lanka, analytical work on infrastructure challenges in metropolitan
Colombo paved the way for reform and the first-ever IBRD investment (a $213 million
loan), ushering in a new phase of engagement with middle-income countries.


Figure 11  SOUTH ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $4.5 billion

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection          9%    5%             Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

                                                            14%                              Education
Transportation                       12%
                                                              6%                    Energy and Mining
                                                              3%                              Finance
Public Administration,
Law, and Justice                    23%
                                                            24%       Health and Other Social Services


Information and Communications                  1%    4%                            Industry and Trade



Figure 12  SOUTH ASIA
IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2013
share of total of $4.5 billion
                                                                            Environment and Natural
Economic Management                              < 1% 10%                    Resources Management
Urban Development                          4%                                    Financial and Private
Trade and Integration               2%                      5%                   Sector Development
Social Protection
and Risk Management                 18%
Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion              5%                        31%                Human Development

Rural Development                         17%

Rule of Law                                      1%    7%                   Public Sector Governance


                                                                           T he R e g ions          46
TABLE 12  SOUTH ASIA
regional snapshot
                                                                                                Current
   Indicator                                                2000               2005                                        Trend
                                                                                                 dataa
   Total population (millions)                              1,382              1,499              1,649
   Population growth (annual %)                              1.8                1.5                 1.3
   GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)                447                700               1,422
   GDP per capita growth (annual %)                          2.4                7.1                 2.3
   Population living on less than $1.25 a day
                                                            619b                598                507
   (millions)
   Life expectancy at birth, females (years)                  63                 65                 67
   Life expectancy at birth, males (years)                    61                 63                 64
   Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)                64                ­—                  73
   Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)                  80                —                   86
   Labor participation rate, females
                                                              35                 37                 32
   (% population ages 15+)
   Labor participation rate, males
                                                              83                 83                 81
   (% population ages 15+)
   Proportion of seats held by women in
                                                              8                  13                 20
   national parliaments (% total)
   Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)                      1,336              1,602              2,216
   Carbon dioxide emissions, per capita
                                                             1.0                1.1                 1.4
   (metric tons)

progress toward the MDGs
                                                           1990              Current               2015                    Trend +
                       MDG
                                                          baseline            data               target                 2015 target
  MDG 1.a Extreme poverty (% population
                                                             47.9               35.5               23.9
  below $1.25 a day, 2005 PPP)
  MDG 2.a Primary completion rate (% relevant
                                                              62                 88                 100
  age group)
  MDG 3.a Ratio of girls to boys in primary and
                                                              68                 95                 100
  secondary education (%)
  MDG 4.a Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live
                                                              85                 48                 28
  births)

  MDG 4.a Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                 119                 62                 40

  MDG 5.a Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
                                                             620                220                 155
  estimate, per 100,000 live births)
  MDG 7.c Access to safe drinking water
                                                              71                 90                 86
  (% population with access)
  MDG 7.c Access to basic sanitation facilities
                                                              22                 38                 61
  (% population with access)
Note: The MDG targets are indicative at the regional level based on global MDG targets. PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. = The most current data available between 2008 and 2012; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. = 1999 data.
   = 2015 MDG target.

THE WORLD BANK
The roles of ibrd and ida
The World Bank Group comprises the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA), which
together form the World Bank; the International Finance Corporation (IFC); the Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA); and the International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes (ICSID). These institutions work together and complement one
another’s activities to achieve their shared goals of reducing poverty and improving lives.
Collaboration by the affiliates is increasing as the World Bank Group works more closely
with the private sector. Each institution discloses its fiscal year highlights in a separate
annual report.

The Role of IBRD
This global development cooperative is owned by 188 member countries. IBRD works
with its members to achieve equitable and sustainable economic growth in their national
economies and to find solutions to pressing regional and global problems in economic
development and other important areas, such as environmental sustainability. It pursues
its overriding goals—to overcome poverty and improve standards of living—primarily
by providing loans, risk management products, and expertise on development-related
disciplines and by coordinating responses to regional and global challenges. (See http://
www.worldbank.org/ibrd.)

IBRD financial commitments and services
New lending commitments by IBRD were $15.2 billion in fiscal 2013 for 92 operations.
This volume was higher than the precrisis historical average ($13.5 billion in fiscal 2005–08)
but lower than the $20.6 billion in fiscal 2012. Latin America and the Caribbean ($4.8
billion) and Europe and Central Asia ($4.6 billion) received the largest shares of new
lending, followed by East Asia and Pacific ($3.7 billion). Commitments to the Middle
East and North Africa ($1.8 billion), South Asia ($378 million), and Africa ($42 million)
followed. Public Administration, Law, and Justice received the largest commitment ($4.4
billion), followed by Transportation ($2.6 billion), Health and Other Social Services ($1.8
billion), and Finance ($1.6 billion). The theme receiving the highest share of commitments
was Financial and Private Sector Development (18 percent), followed by Public Sector
Governance (14 percent) and Social Protection and Risk Management (13 percent).
     In addition to its lending activities, IBRD offers financial products that allow clients to
efficiently fund their development programs and manage risks related to currency and
interest rates, commodity prices, and natural disasters. In fiscal 2013, the Bank’s Treasury
executed U.S. dollar equivalent (USDeq) 4.8 billion in hedging transactions on behalf of
member countries, including USDeq 3.7 billion in interest rate hedges, USDeq 82 million in
currency hedges (all local currency conversions), and USDeq 1 billion of currency hedges
against non–IBRD obligations. It also executed swaps to provide catastrophe risk insurance
to five Pacific Island countries and 16 Caribbean nations, and USDeq 878 million in funding
and swaps for the International Finance Facility for Immunisation. The Bank’s Treasury also
served as arranger for the government of Mexico’s second MultiCat bond, a three-year,
$315 million, multitranche catastrophe bond providing parametric risk insurance coverage
against earthquakes and hurricanes.

IBRD resources
IBRD issues bonds in international capital markets and provides long-term loans to
middle-income countries. In fiscal 2013, IBRD raised USDeq 22.1 billion by issuing bonds
in 21 currencies. Its standing in the capital markets and its financial strength allowed IBRD
to borrow these large volumes on very favorable terms despite volatile market conditions.

Figure 13
IBRD RATIO OF EQUITY TO LOANS AND LONG-TERM INVESTMENT ASSETS
AS OF JUNE 30, 2013

PERCENT
 40
              34.3

                             29.4              28.6
 30                                                            26.9              26.8



 20



 10



  0
              FY09           FY10              FY11              FY12            FY13




The Bank’s strength is based on IBRD’s robust capital position and shareholder support,
as well as on prudent financial policies and practices, which help maintain its AAA credit
rating. IBRD’s equity comprises primarily paid-in capital and reserves. Under the terms of
the general and selective capital increase resolutions approved by the Board of Governors
on March 16, 2011, subscribed capital is expected to increase by $86.2 billion, of which
$5.1 billion will be paid in over a five-year period. As of June 30, 2013, the cumulative
increase in subscribed capital totaled $32.2 billion. Related paid-in amounts in connection
with these capital increase resolutions were $1.9 billion.
    As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough
income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. Of fiscal
2012 allocable net income, the Executive Directors approved the addition of $147 million
to the general reserve and recommended to the Board of Governors the transfer of $621
million to IDA and the allocation of $200 million to surplus.
    Consistent with IBRD’s development mandate, the principal risk it takes is the country
credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. One summary measure of the
Bank’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is closely managed in line with the
Bank’s financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 26.8 percent as of June 30, 2013.

The Role of IDA
The International Development Association (IDA) is the largest multilateral source of
concessional financing for the world’s poorest countries. Its funding supports countries’
efforts to boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve the living conditions of
the poor. In fiscal 2013, a total of 82 countries were eligible to receive IDA assistance. (See
http://www.worldbank.org/ida.)

IDA financial commitments
IDA commitments amounted to $16.3 billion in fiscal 2013, including $13.8 billion in
credits, $2.5 billion in grants, and $60 million in guarantees. The largest share of resources
($8.2 billion) was committed to Africa. South Asia ($4.1 billion) and East Asia and Pacific
($2.6 billion) also received large shares of committed funding, followed by Europe and
Central Asia ($729 million), Latin America and the Caribbean ($435 million), and Middle
East and North Africa ($249 million). Vietnam ($2.0 billion) and Bangladesh ($1.6 billion)
received the largest shares of committed financing.
    Commitments for infrastructure—including the Energy and Mining sector;
Transportation; Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection; and Information and
Communications—reached $6.1 billion. Significant support was also committed to the
Education sector and Health and Other Social Services (combined $4.2 billion); Public


Figure 14
                                         a
IDA REPLENISHMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
                                                                                                                              26.4
                                                                                  25.1


                                  18.0
                                                                                                       14.6
        12.7


                                                        6.3               6.3                                          5.3
                                                                 3.9                                             3.0
                  1.6
                          n.a.
                IDA14 FY06–08                                  IDA15 FY09–11                                  IDA16 FY12–14
     IDA internal resourcesb                             Donor compensation for MDRI debt forgiveness
     IBRD and IFC transfers                              Donor contributionsc

Note: n.a. = not applicable.
a.  Data reflects final agreed replenishment reports and exchange rates used during the replenishment discussions.
b. IDA internal resources include principal repayments, charges, and investment income.
c.  Net of structural financing gap.




Administration, Law, and Justice ($3.6 billion); and Agriculture ($1.3 billion). The themes
receiving the highest share of commitments were Rural Development ($2.9 billion),
Human Development ($2.8 billion), and Social Protection and Risk Management ($1.9
billion).

IDA resources
IDA is financed largely by contributions from partner governments. Additional financing
comes from transfers from IBRD’s net income, grants from IFC, and borrowers’ repayments
of earlier IDA credits. Every three years, partner governments and representatives of
borrower countries meet to agree on IDA’s strategic direction, priorities, and financing for
the subsequent three-year implementation period.
    Under the 16th replenishment (IDA16), which covers fiscal years 2012–14, total
resources (revised to reflect IDA’s currency hedging and updated subsequent to the
replenishment discussions) amounted to Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 33.9 billion
(equivalent to $50.9 billion). This figure includes partner resources of SDR 17.6 billion
(equivalent to $26.4 billion) from 51 countries, 7 of which are new contributing partners;
partner compensation for debt forgiveness of SDR 3.5 billion (equivalent to $5.3 billion);
credit reflows of SDR 8.9 billion (equivalent to $13.4 billion), including reflows from
contractual and voluntary acceleration of credit repayments and hardening of the lending
terms for IDA’s blend and gap borrowers; transfers from within the World Bank Group,
including associated investment income of SDR 1.9 billion (equivalent to $2.8 billion);
and balances carried forward from prior replenishments of SDR 2.0 billion (equivalent
to $2.9 billion). As of June 30, 2013, SDR 19.9 billion (equivalent to $29.9 billion) of the
IDA16 envelope had been committed to credits, grants, and guarantees. The U.S. dollar
equivalents are based on the reference exchange rate for IDA16, and the amounts are
provided for illustrative purposes only because IDA cash flows are hedged to SDRs, the
currency in which IDA’s commitment authority is recorded.
    The overarching theme and main focus of IDA16 is the delivery of development results.
Special themes include crisis response, gender, climate change, and fragile and conflict-affected situations. IDA16 includes funding for a dedicated Crisis Response Window to
help low-income countries deal with the impact of natural disasters and severe economic
shocks.
    The replenishment process for IDA17, which covers fiscal years 2015–17, is under way.
It culminates in December 2013.




Figure 15
IBRD-IDA LENDING BY REGION | FISCAL 2013
SHARE OF TOTAL LENDING OF $31.5 BILLION

South Asia                                 14%               26%                                                Africa




Middle East and North Africa      7%




Latin America and
the Caribbean                  16%
                                                                         20%                      East Asia and Paciﬁc




                                                       17%                                   Europe and Central Asia




Figure 16
IBRD-IDA LENDING BY SECTOR | FISCAL 2013
SHARE OF TOTAL LENDING OF $31.5 BILLION

Water, Sanitation, and Flood
Protection                                       8%         8%                      Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry


                                                                   10%                                     Education
Transportation                  15%

                                                                             13%                  Energy and Mining

Public Administration,
Law, and Justice                22%                                      3%                                  Finance

                                                                       16%          Health and Other Social Services
Information and
Communications                                   1%    4%                                         Industry and Trade




Figure 17
IBRD-IDA LENDING BY THEME | FISCAL 2013
SHARE OF TOTAL LENDING OF $31.5 BILLION

Urban Development                                10%   1%                                    Economic Management
                                                                                            Environment and Natural
                                                                       7%                    Resources Management
Trade and Integration             10%
                                                                                         Financial and Private Sector
                                                                              10%                      Development
Social Protection and Risk
Management                     12%
                                                                             17%               Human Development
Social Development, Gender,
and Inclusion                   3%

Rural Development                    18%

Rule of Law                                            1%        11%                       Public Sector Governance




TABLE 13
OPERATIONAL SUMMARY | FISCAL 2008–13
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

IBRD 	FY08	FY09	FY
Commitments	                                                          13,468 	                     32,911 	

      Of which development policy lending	                              3,967 	                    15,532 	

Gross disbursements	                                                  10,490 	                     18,565 	

      Of which development policy lending	                              3,485 	                     9,138 	

Principal repayments (including prepayments)	                         12,610 	                     10,217 	

Net disbursements	                                                    (2,120)	                      8,347 	

Loans outstanding	                                                    99,050 	                 105,698 	

Undisbursed loans	                                                    38,176 	                     51,125 	

Operating incomea	                                                      2,271 	                       572 	

Usable capital and reserves	                                          36,888 	                     36,328 	

Equity-to-loans ratio	                                                   38%	34%	

a. Reported in IBRD’s financial statements as “Income before fair value adjustment on nontrading
portfolios, net and Board of Governors–approved transfers.”



IDA	FY08	FY09	FY
Commitments	                                                          11,235 	                     14,041a	

      Of which development policy lending	                              2,672 	                     2,820 	

Gross disbursements	                                                    9,160 	                     9,219 	

      Of which development policy lending	                              2,813 	                     1,872 	

Principal repayments (including prepayments)	                           2,182 	                     2,209 	

Net disbursements	                                                      6,978 	                     7,010 	

Credits outstanding	                                                 113,542 	                 112,894 	

Undisbursed credits	                                                  27,539 	                     29,903 	

Undisbursed grants	                                                     5,522 	                     5,652 	

Development grant expenses	                                             3,151 	                     2,575 	

a.  Includes a HIPC grant of $45.5 million for Côte d’Ivoire.




	FY10	FY11	FY12	FY13

       44,197 	    26,737 	    20,582 	           15,249

       20,588 	     9,524 	    10,333	             7,080

       28,855 	    21,879 	    19,777	            15,830

       17,425 	    10,582 	     9,052	             5,972

       11,624 	    13,885 	    11,970	             9,470

       17,231 	     7,994 	     7,806 	            6,361

      120,103 	   132,459 	   136,325 	          143,776

       63,574 	    64,435 	    62,916 	           61,306

          800 	     1,023 	       783 	              876

       36,106 	    38,689 	    37,636	            39,711

	        29%	 29%	27%	27%




	FY10	FY11	FY12	FY13

       14,550 	    16,269 	    14,753 	           16,298

        2,370 	     2,032 	     1,827	             1,954

       11,460 	    10,282 	    11,061 	           11,228

        3,228 	     1,944 	     2,092 	            1,662

        2,349 	     2,501 	     4,023 	            3,845

        9,111 	     7,781 	     7,037 	            7,371

      113,474 	   125,287 	   123,576 	          125,135

       30,696 	    38,059 	    37,144 	           39,765

        5,837 	     6,830 	     6,161 	            6,436

        2,583 	     2,793 	     2,062 	            2,380




TABLE 14
WORLD BANK LENDING BY THEME AND SECTOR | FISCAL 2008–13
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS


THEME 	FY08	FY09	FY
Economic Management	                                                     397	                  2,305	
Environment and Natural Resources Management	                          2,662	                  5,085	
Financial and Private Sector Development	                              6,156	                  9,695	
Human Development	                                                     2,281	                  6,379	
Public Sector Governance	                                              4,347	                  6,108	
Rule of Law	                                                             304	                     16	
Rural Development	                                                     2,277	                  4,299	
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion	                             1,003	                    813	
Social Protection and Risk Management	                                   882	                  5,296	
Trade and Integration	                                                 1,393	                  3,444	
Urban Development	                                                     3,001	                  3,467	

Theme Total	                                                         24,702	                 46,906	


Sector         	                                                        FY08	FY09	FY

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	                                    1,361	                  3,400	
Education	                                                             1,927	3,445	
Energy and Mining	                                                     4,180	                  6,267	
Finance	                                                               1,541	4,236	
Health and Other Social Services	                                      1,608	                  6,305	
Industry and Trade	                                                    1,544	                  2,806	
Information and Communications	                                           57	                    329	
Public Administration, Law, and Justice 	                              5,296	                  9,492	
Transportation	                                                        4,830	6,261	
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection	                               2,360	                  4,365	

Sector Total 	                                                       24,702	                 46,906	



Of which IBRD	                                                      13,468	                  32,911	
Of which IDA	                                                       11,235	                  13,995	

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. Fiscal 2009 IDA lending excludes HIPC grants
totaling $45.5 million.




	FY10	FY11	FY12	FY13

     3,950	      655	              1,293	                  484
     4,337	    6,102	              3,997	                 2,470
    17,726	    7,981	              4,743	                 4,380
     8,421	    4,228	              4,961	                 4,348
     5,750	    4,518	              4,035	                 3,790
      207	       169	                126	                  590
     5,004	    5,636	              5,443	                4,651
      952	       908	              1,247	                1,310
     5,006	    5,691	              3,502	                3,956
     1,818	    2,604	              1,872	                2,707
     5,575	    4,514	              4,118	                2,861

   58,747	    43,006	             35,335 	              31,547


	FY10	FY11	FY12	FY13

     2,618	    2,128	              3,134	                 2,112
     4,945	    1,733	              2,959	                 2,731
     9,925	    5,807	              5,000	                 3,280
     9,137	      897	              1,764	                 2,055
     6,792	    6,707	              4,190	                 4,363
     1,251	    2,167	              1,352	                1,432
      146	       640	                158	                  228
    10,828	    9,673	              8,728	                7,991
     9,002	    8,638	              4,445	                5,135
     4,103	    4,617	              3,605	                2,220

   58,747	    43,006	             35,335 	              31,547



   44,197	    26,737	            20,582	                15,249
   14,550	    16,269	            14,753	                16,298




                                       POvERTY
PROSPERITY




                  The WOrlD BaNk:
                  COMMITTeD TO resulTs
     Delivering integrated solutions to help client countries address their development
     challenges requires a focus on results. Over the past decade, the World Bank has made
     important contributions to supporting development results in its client countries. In recent
     years, operations have been scaled up in response to the food, fuel, and financial crises
     with special attention given to fragile and conflict-affected situations. Bank-supported
     investments have yielded significant results across many areas, as shown here in selected
     examples from around the world. The accompanying map shows the borrowing eligibility of
     member countries. For more information, visit worldbank.org/results.


         1 Afghanistan: 11,000 km of roads have                       5 Bhutan: 90 percent of children completed
           been built by local people since 2002,                       school in 2009, compared to 76 percent in
           creating jobs as well as improved access                     2006.
           to markets, schools, and health facilities for
                                                                      6 Bosnia and Herzegovina: 100 percent
           rural residents.
                                                                        of people living in 20 municipalities had
         2 Armenia: 85 percent of the population                        24-hour access to a water supply in 2011,
           was served by qualified family medicine                      compared to 75 percent in 2004.
           practices in 2010, up from 17 percent in
                                                                      7 Burkina Faso: 100 percent of children
           2004.
                                                                        have had access to free vaccinations since
         3 Bangladesh: More than 6 million girls                        2002, and all women became eligible for
           attend secondary schools today, a fivefold                   free prenatal care in 2003.
           increase from just 1.1 million in 1991.
                                                                      8 Colombia: Nearly 1.7 million passengers
         4 Benin: 750,000 people benefited from                         per day were transported along one of
           community-driven projects between 2005                       the five bus rapid transit lines operating
           and 2012.                                                    throughout the country as of the end of
                                                                        2012.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Countries eligible for
                                                                                                                                                                  Russian Federation                                                                                     IBRD funds only

                                                                                                                Russian Fed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Countries eligible for blend
                                                                                                                                Belarus
                                                                                                                       Poland                                                                                    16                                                      of IBRD and IDA funds
                                                                                                                                    15
                                                                                                                         6        Ukraine
                                                                                                                                Moldova
                                                                                                                                                           Kazakhstan                  Mongolia                                                                          Countries eligible for
                                                                                                                             Romania          2                                                                                                                          IDA funds only
                                                                                                                            Bulgaria Georgia            Uzbekistan Kyrgyz Rep.
                                                                                                             22                     Armenia      Azerbaijan       1 Tajikistan                                                                                           Inactive IDA-eligible countries
                                                                                                                                Turkey             Turkmenistan                                                   Rep. of
                                                                                               17                                      Syrian                                                  China              Korea
                                                                                                              Tunisia                              Islamic
                                                                                                                           Lebanon A.R.                     Afghanistan
                                                                                                                                                     Rep.
                                                                                      Morocco                    West Bank and Gaza         Iraq of Iran                              5    Bhutan
   14
                                                                                                                               Arab
                                                                                                                                       Jordan                    Pakistan
                                                                                                                                                                              Nepal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No data
                                                                                                   Algeria
                                                                                                                  Libya       Rep. of                                     11            3
                                  10                                                                                          Egypt
 Mexico                                                                                                                                                                           Bangladesh
                     Jamaica                                            Cape                   Mali                                                25                       India        Myanmar Lao 24
                 Belize                                                 Verde Mauritania                                                                                                          P.D.R.
                  Honduras Haiti                                                                 7         Niger                                 Rep. of
  Guatemala
                                                                                Senegal                                       Sudan Eritrea                                                    Thailand Vietnam
                                                                                           Burkina 4
                                                                    The Gambia                                     Chad                          Yemen                                                                                                          Marshall Islands
   El Salvador     Nicaragua                                                                                                                                                                       Cambodia                              Federated States
                                                                  Guinea-Bissau                                                                Djibouti                                                            Philippines
                             8                                                      Guinea Faso          Nigeria           South Sudan                                                                                                    of Micronesia
        Costa Rica                 R.B. de Guyana                                          Côte                                                                                   Sri
                                                                        Sierra Leone                                Central            Ethiopia
               Panama            Venezuela     Suriname                                   d’Ivoire       Cameroon African          23             Somalia
                                                                                                                                                                                  Lanka                Malaysia                     Palau
                           Colombia                                               Liberia
                                                                                            Ghana                     Rep.               13                                Maldives
                                                                                              Togo                 9            Uganda                                                                                12                                                   Kiribati
                 Ecuador                                                                     Benin         Gabon         Rwanda       Kenya
                                                                                  Equatorial Guinea                 Dem. Rep. Burundi          Seychelles                                                                                            18     Solomon
                                                                             São Tomé and Príncipe                  of Congo            20                                                                      Indonesia 21                 Papua           Islands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kiribati
                                                                                                                                             Comoros                                                                                          New
                                                                                                 Rep. of Congo
                           Peru                                                                                                    Tanzania                                                                                                  Guinea                    Tuvalu
                                                   Brazil                                                                                                                                                                   Timor-Leste
                                                                                                                  Angola
                                                                                                                           Zambia Malawi                                                                                                                                          Samoa

                                       Bolivia                                                                                                  Madagascar                                                                                            Vanuatu              Fiji
                                                                                                                  Namibia Zimbabwe                           Mauritius
                                                                                                                       Botswana
                                                                                                                                Mozambique
                                             Paraguay
                                                                    Dominican                                                  19          Swaziland                               Poland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tonga
                                                                    Republic




                                                                                                                                                                                            Bulgaria Romania Ukraine
                                                                                                      Antigua                             Lesotho
                                                                                                      and              South Africa
                                   Chile                Uruguay                   St. Kitts           Barbuda
                                                                                and Nevis
                                            Argentina
                                                                                       Dominica                                                                          Croatia   6
                                                                                          St. Lucia                                                                  Bosnia and Serbia
                                                                                                                                                                    Herzegovina
                                                                              St. Vincent and
                                                                             the Grenadines                                                                                      Kosovo
                                                                                                      Grenada                                                        Montenegro
                                                                                                                                                                            Albania
                                                                                                  Trinidad                                                                          FYR
                                                                        R. B. de Venezuela        & Tobago                                                                    Macedonia                                                                                                              IBRD 40125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JULY 2013




9 Congo, Republic of: 85 percent of                                       14 Mexico: nearly 23 million free, energy-                                                         18 Solomon Islands: 287,000 workdays were                              23 Uganda: more than 3 million people—47
  children completed primary school as of                                    saving light bulbs have been distributed to                                                        created during 2010–12, and more than                                  percent of all northern Ugandans—
  the end of 2012, up from just 50 percent in                                5.5 million families since 2010, saving 1,400                                                      4,500 people—57 percent women and 50                                   received access to improved services,
  2004.                                                                      gigawatt hours in 2010–12.                                                                         percent young people—were trained and                                  including safe drinking water and better
                                                                                                                                                                                employed.                                                              sanitation facilities between 2003 and
10 Haiti: 1.3 million people, represented                                 15 Moldova: 932,000 people were
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2012.
   by 76 civil protection committees, have                                   empowered through a social investment                                                           19 South Africa: 1,953,246 hectares were
   strengthened their disaster preparedness                                  fund, from 1998 to 2011, to manage their                                                           under local conservation management in                              24 Vietnam: 100,000 interbank money
   and response capacity.                                                    own development needs.                                                                             2010, up from 1,054,033 in 2004, through                               transfers were processed daily in 2010, up
                                                                                                                                                                                stewardship agreements with private                                    from 300–500 daily in 2002, improving
11 India: 400,000 farmers in 50 districts                                 16 Mongolia: 67,000 solar home systems
                                                                                                                                                                                landowners and communities.                                            banking access throughout the country.
   were covered by a weather-based crop                                      were sold to herders between 2006 and
   insurance pilot program in its first crop                                 2012, giving 60–70 percent of the country’s                                                     20 Tanzania: 20 million workdays were                                  25 Yemen, Republic of: 3,050 traditional
   season.                                                                   nomadic herders access to electricity.                                                             provided in public works in 2012, up from                              seed varieties were collected and stored
                                                                                                                                                                                5.4 million workdays in 2005, an increase of                           in gene banks between 2008 and 2010 to
12 Indonesia: 4.8 million beneficiaries gained                            17 Morocco: 67 percent of local committees
                                                                                                                                                                                300 percent.                                                           preserve agro-biodiversity.
   access to improved water supply, and 5.5                                  between 2006 and 2010 included civil
   million beneficiaries received access to                                  society representatives and elected                                                             21 Timor-Leste: 83 percent of children
   improved sanitation between 2006 and                                      government officials to prioritize                                                                 completed primary school in 2012, up
   2013.                                                                     community needs in local development                                                               from 73 percent in 2009.
                                                                             plans.
13 Kenya: more than 245,000—or                                                                                                                                               22 Tunisia: 270 museum personnel were
   approximately 40 percent—of all orphans                                                                                                                                      trained in sustainable cultural tourism, and
   and vulnerable children living in extreme                                                                                                                                    three world-class museums were built or
   poverty were being supported by a safety                                                                                                                                     expanded to diversify the tourism sector.
   net program as of 2011.
WORld BanK annual REPORT 2013 TEam
Publisher                                            Print Production Coordinator
Carlos Rossel                                        denise Bergeron

Editorial Coordinator                                Web Production Coordinators
daniel nikolits                                      Stacey leonard Frank
                                                     Tom Breineder
Design and Production                                Paschal Ssemaganda
Coordinator
Susan Graham                                         Design, Typesetting,
                                                     and Printing
Advisory Editors                                     hank Isaac of River Rock Creative;
nancy lammers                                        BmWW; and Professional Graphics
John Felton                                          Printing Co.
Barbara Karni
Janet Sasser




                                          annual REPORT 2013
                                          Cd-ROm COnTEnTS
                                               The World Bank Annual Report 2013
                                               (booklet), in 7 languages
                                               Results 2013
                                               World Bank Corporate Scorecard




                                               Financial Statements
                                               Income by Region
                                               lending data
                                               new Operations approved
                                               Organizational Information




© 2013 International Bank for Reconstruction and                 Rights and Permissions
Development / The World Bank                                                         This work is available under the Creative
1818 h Street nW, Washington, dC 20433                                               Commons attribution 3.0 unported license
Telephone: 202-473-1000; Internet: www.worldbank.org                                 (CC BY 3.0) http://creativecommons.org
                                                                 /licenses/by/3.0. under the Creative Commons attribution
Some rights reserved                                             license, you are free to copy, distribute, transmit, and adapt
1 2 3 4 16 15 14 13                                              this work, including for commercial purposes, under the
                                                                 following conditions:
This work is a product of the staff of The World Bank.                 Attribution—Please cite the work as follows: World
note that The World Bank does not necessarily own each           Bank. 2013. The World Bank Annual Report 2013. Washington,
component of the content included in the work. The World         dC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/978-0-8213-9937-8. license:
Bank therefore does not warrant that the use of the content      Creative Commons attribution CC BY 3.0.
contained in the work will not infringe on the rights of third         Translations—If you create a translation of this
parties. The risk of claims resulting from such infringement     work, please add the following disclaimer along with the
rests solely with you.                                           attribution: This translation was not created by The World Bank
      The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other           and should not be considered an official World Bank translation.
information shown on any map in this work do not imply any       The World Bank shall not be liable for any content or error in this
judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal      translation.
status of any territory or the endorsement or acceptance of            all queries on rights and licenses should be addressed
such boundaries.                                                 to World Bank Publications, The World Bank Group, 1818 h
      nothing herein shall constitute or be considered to be a   Street nW, Washington, dC 20433, uSa; fax: 202-522-2625;
limitation upon or waiver of the privileges and immunities of    e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.
The World Bank, all of which are specifically reserved.          ISBn (paper): 978-0-8213-9937-8
                                                                 ISBn (electronic): 978-0-8213-9947-7
                                                                 dOI: 10.1596/978-0-8213-9937-8
SInCE 2002, WORld BanK
InvESTmEnTS havE hElPEd TO
   Finance the training of about 2.7 million health personnel
   Provide immunizations for approximately 497 million children
   Support prenatal care for more than 188 million pregnant women
   Finance the construction or rehabilitation of more than 189,000
   kilometers of roads
   assist in the recruitment and training of more than 4 million
   primary teachers
   Provide 145 million people with access to improved water sources
   afford nearly 10 million people access to improved sanitation
   facilities




                 WORldBanK.ORG/annualREPORT2013




The list above comprises some of the results that partner countries achieved with
World Bank support between 2002 and 2012. The World Bank is committed to
achieving a world free of poverty and promoting shared prosperity in a sustainable
manner. It is at the forefront of designing and managing initiatives that address
global development challenges, such as fighting communicable diseases,
combating the effects of climate change, and building food security. The World Bank
continues to work with traditional and new development partners to meet these
challenges and to help deliver transformative change for client countries.




1818 h Street nW
Washington, dC 20433
T 202-473-1000
I www.worldbank.org
E feedback@worldbank.org                                                     SKu 19937
