10918
INTERNATIONAL
BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
THIRD ANNUAL REPORT
194 7 - 1948






THIRD ANNUAL REPORT
TO THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS
1947 - 194S8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
WASHIlNGTON, D. C.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
September 27, 1948
My dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with Section 10 of the By-Laws of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I have the honor to
submit to the Board of Governors the Third Annual Report of the Bank,
as approved by the Executive Directors. This report includes financial
statements as of June 30, 1948, based on an audit of the accounts of the
Bank made pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws. It also incorporates,
pursuant to Section 19 of the By-Laws, an administrative budget for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1949, prepared by the President and ap-
proved by the Executive Directors.
While the financial statements cover the fiscal year ended June
30, 1948, the remainder of the report reflects the activities of the Bank
for the period from August 10, 1947 to August 31, 1948.
Sincerely yours,
JOHN J. MCCLOY,
President.
Chairman, Board of Governors,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
INTRODUCTION   .......................................................................                                                    5
ROLE  OF  THE  BANK ........................................................................7
Europe
Bank  Operations in  Europe  to  Date ........................................................................        7
The Nature of Europe's Problem ........................................................................8
The  European   Recovery  Program ........................................................................            9
Future  Bank  Financing  in  Europe .......................................................................          13
Dependence  of Europe  on  Other Areas ....................................................................   14
Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East
Potentialities  and  Basic  Problems  of  Development ................................................   14
Pattern   of  Development .......................................................................                    17
Provision   of  Technical  Assistance ................................................................... ....   18
Stimulation  of Investment from   Other Sources ........................................................   20
LOAN   ACTIVITIES  .......................................................................    21
Loans Granted  .......................................................................   21
Use  of Loan  Proceeds .......................................................................                                    24
Loan  Discussions  .......................................................................   24
Results  of  Operations  and  Loan  Charges .......................................................................               25
Administration  of Loans .......................................................................                                  25
Enabling Legislation ..................................................                                                           26
MARKETING  ACTIVITIES ..................................................  27
Borrowing   Operations   ..................................................    27
Legislative Program ...................................................  28
Condition  of United  States Market and  Future Marketing  Plans .                                  ...........................................   30
MISCELLANEOUS ................................................... 30
Management and  Organization ..................................................                                            , , 30
Advisory Council ...................................................  31
Relationship  with  Other  International  Organizations                               ...................................   31
Increases in Membership .......................................              .                                                    32
Subscriptions and Voting Power of Member Countries                                    ....................................   32
Election  of  Additional  Executive  Directors .......................................                                            32
Financial Statements  and  Reports ....................................... .                                                     32
Administrative Budget ........................................ 32
Additional Reports  to  Board  of Governors                                .......................................   33
Appendices ........................................ 33
A.   Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1948 .............................................................                       34
B. Statement of Income and Expenses for the Twelve Months Ended June 30, 1948..  35
C.   Statement of Loans as of June  30, 1948 .............................................                                 36
D.  Statement of Members' Currencies Held  by the Bank  as of June 30, 1948 ............   37
E. Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power of Members
as of June 30, 1948 .........................................                                                   38-39
F.   Notes  to  Financial Statements ........................................................                         40-41
G.  Opinion   of  Independent  Auditor ........................................................                            42
H. Administrative Budget ......................................................... 43
1.    Governors and  Alternates as of August 31, 1948 ..............................                                       44
J.  Voting Power and Subscriptions of Member Countries as of August
31, 1948 .45
K. Executive Directors and Alternates and Their Voting Power as of August
31, 1948 .46
L. Officers of the Bank as of August 31, 1948 .48



INTRODUCTION
THIS THIRD ANNUAL REPORT of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
records the Bank's activities during the period from August 10, 1947 to August 31, 1948. The
story it tells is one of solid if modest achievement.
During the period covered by this report, the Bank authorized the granting of its first
credits for development purposes. The pattern set by this financing is promising, especially by
reason of the cooperation shown by the borrowing country in adopting measures designed to put
its economy on a stronger and more stable basis and to improve its credit position. The year
has also witnessed the Bank's first loans to private enterprises and its first use of its guarantee
powers. There has been an impressive increase in the number of projects brought to the Bank
for consideration; active discussions are now being conducted concerning such projects in more
than 20 member countries. At the same time, as a result of these discussions, of extensive trips
made by the top officials of the Bank within Europe and South America and of a number of field
investigations undertaken by the Bank, there has emerged a much clearer understanding, both by
the Bank and by its members, of the essential nature of the Bank's task and of the conditions
necessary for its satisfactory fulfilment. There have also been encouraging developments in con-
nection with the creation of a broader market for the Bank's securities; in particular, the Bank
has been able to consummate the first sale of its non-dollar bonds.
The amount of money which the Bank has been able to invest during the year in sound,
productive projects has not been large. The reasons are not obscure nor are they, from a long-
range standpoint, disheartening. So far as European reconstruction is concerned, substantial loans
by the Bank have been precluded primarily because of the uncertainties which have existed, first
with respect to the shape and content of the European Recovery Program and later with respect
to the manner in which loans by the Bank could best be brought into harmony with that pro-
gram. So far as concerns other areas of the world, large-scale Bank financing has not yet been
possible, due largely to the length of time required for the preparation of specific projects up to
the point where they are ready for financing. In part, too, it is due to the need in some cases for
the borrowing country to take steps to rectify unsound economic and financial conditions which
affect its credit and which, if not remedied, would impair both the effectiveness of any Bank loan
and the prospects for its repayment.
These are not long-term obstacles. It may reasonably be expected that the Bank's role in
relation to the European Recovery Program will become clarified during the forthcoming months
and, to the extent that the program helps Europe to regain stability, it will facilitate the Bank's
operations. In other areas, considerable progress has already been made in drafting detailed plans
for projects proposed for Bank financing and in initiating necessary economic and financial re-
forms; these steps should soon make possible a substantial increase in the amount of Bank in-
vestment for development purposes.
[5 ]



The fact must be frankly faced, however, that full realization of the Bank's potentiali-
ties cannot be expected as long as economic and financial stability in large areas of the world
continues to be threatened by political tensions and unrest. The prevailing political uncertainties
undermine confidence, hamper productive investment and disrupt normal trade relations. So long
as this condition continues, the Bank will be faced with difficulties not only in making good loans
but also in convincing the private investment market, to which it must look for the major portion
of its loanable resources, that its investment portfolio is sound. Only as the world political situa-
tion becomes more stable can the Bank proceed with full momentum toward the accomplishment
of its declared purposes.
The Bank's field of activity is still new, new to its clients as well as to the institution itself.
The ultimate pattern of its operations is not fully predictable; it will depend in large part upon
world economic conditions and trends which the Bank itself can only in small measure shape.
But by developing its activities in different directions, both with respect to the size and character
of its loans and with respect to the techniques it employs to channel capital into productive in-
ternational investment, the Bank has grown in flexibility, strength and stature. As it continues to
acquire experience and to gain the confidence of its members, the Bank should gradually be able
to play an increasingly effective role in helping to raise production levels and living standards
throughout the world.
[6]



ROLE OF THE BANK
Post-war experience has shown that the dis-   gram and continue to represent a unique co-
tinction made in the Bank's Articles of Agree-   operative effort to achieve rehabilitation and
ment between  reconstruction  and  develop-  long-range economic development throughout
ment is overshadowed in importance by the   the world.
distinction between the Bank's activities in                  EUROPE
Europe and its activities in other areas of the
world. In Europe, the devastations of war, phy-   Bank Operations in Europe to Date
sical and moral, have had the most far-reaching  As the Bank mentioned in its Second An-
economic impact upon the world. Unlike the   nual Report, the assumptions about European
other areas, Europe enjoys for the most part  recovery made at Bretton Woods in 1944 when
a mature economy; in the import field, its need   the Bank's charter was drafted have proved
is less for capital equipment than for food, fuel  to be both too simple and too optimistic. The
and raw materials, and in the investment field,   conception of Bretton Woods was that the
its need is more for modernization, expansion   critical short-range relief needs of Europe after
and more effective utilization of existing pro-   the war were to be met through donations by
ductive facilities than for the construction of   UNRRA; the external financing needed for
new facilities or for the introduction of new    more permanent recovery programs, to the ex-
industries. Europe, too, has available highly  tent that it could not be furnished from other
developed technical skills and know-how. And   sources, was to be supplied by loans from the
finally, the Bank's role in Europe is affected,   Bank. Recovery was conceived of primarily in
in a way that it is not affected elsewhere, by   terms of the rebuilding of factories, mines,
the financial assistance which has recently been   railroads and other specific productive facilities.
made available by the United States to a num-   It was not until the winter of 1946-47 that
ber of the European countries in the form of   the Bank was organized to the point that it
the European Recovery Program.                could seriously consider making its first loans
Accordingly, the problems of Europe and   for European reconstruction. By that time it
the potential contribution of the Bank to the   had become clear that the physical devastation,
solution of those problems will be discussed   disruption of trade and industrial and govern-
first. This will be followed by an analysis of   mental dislocations caused by the war were far
the needs of the Bank's members in other areas   greater than had been envisaged at Bretton
of the world and of the manner in which it ap-   Woods. The economic problems with which
pears that the Bank can be most helpful in  the European nations were confronted at the
meeting such needs.                           end of the UNRRA  period involved much
If in the course of this discussion frequent   more than the reconstruction or modernization
mention is made of the European Recovery   of specific productive facilities; there was also
Program, it is because that program marks per-   urgent need for assistance to prevent interrup-
haps the most spectacular evidence of an eco-  tion of the flow of imports, primarily of food,
nomic trend commenced even before the close   fuel and raw materials. By the end of 1946,
of the war-the plan of extraordinary and con-   European resources of dollar exchange had
centrated aid moving from one country or area   fallen to dangerously low levels and credits
toward other areas less fortunately situated.   from  the United States and other Western
The extent of such aid has assumed such an   Hemisphere countries had largely been ex-
economic significance that no serious resume of   hausted.
the Bank's past and future activities could pos-  The loanable resources upon which the
the   Bank's   past  and   future   activities could pos- Bank   could   rely   at  that  time   without  borrow-
sibly be attempted without frequent reference   ing in the market amounted to only about $730
to it. Having said this, however, it is appro-   million, representing the 20%  portion of the
priate to add that the activities of the Bank   United States' capital subscription required to
extend far beyond the European Recovery Pro-   be paid in dollars and the small portion of the
[ 7 ]



other members' subscriptions paid in gold or  the Bank could not make large loans to Eu-
dollars. This was obviously far less than was  rope; none of the ERP countries, in fact, urged
required to fill the financial gap in Europe,  the Bank to do otherwise. There were several
even apart from the pressing and justifiable  reasons for this position. In the first place, until
demands upon the Bank from other areas, but  the amount of ERP aid, and particularly its
the urgency of Europe's need could not be de-   division as between loans and grants, were
nied. In the spring and summer of 1947, there-   known, the prospects for repayment of a Bank
fore, the Bank granted a series of four Eu-  loan to any of the ERP countries could not
ropean loans-to  France, the Netherlands,  properly be estimated. In the second place, it
Denmark and Luxembourg-totalling $497   was clear from the beginning of the debate that
million. These loans, by permitting the bor-   United States financial assistance to Europe,
rowing countries to sustain for a time the nec-   whatever the precise amount appropriated,
essary volume of essential imports, helped to   would greatly exceed for the time being
prevent a disastrous drop in production and   any amounts which the Bank might lend.
possible economic collapse.                It seemed desirable, therefore, that, instead of
The Bank was fully aware, however, that   providing what would have amounted at best
these loans, vital as they were, provided only   merely to stop-gap aid in meeting current Eu-
a partial solution to Europe's problems. It ac-  ropean balance of payments deficits, the Bank
cordingly pointed out in its Second Annual  reserve its not unlimited resources to finance
Report that "there must be continued assist-  productive projects in other areas of the world
ance from other sources, such as that contem-   and to supplement ERP by helping the partici-
plated ... by the so-called Marshall Plan . . . ,"  pating countries in their long-term investment
and that developments in connection with fur-   programs. Finally, and not least important,
ther United States assistance to Europe would   most of the ERP countries were reluctant to
"greatly affect the role of the Bank in the   add to the burden of their debts by borrowing
process of European reconstruction."        from the Bank until they knew the amount and
For eight months after those words were  terms of the financial assistance they could se-
written, a vigorous and healthy debate on the   cure from the United States.
European Recovery Program was conducted on    These considerations did not stop all Bank
both sides of the Atlantic. During part of this  activities in Europe. Negotiations have been
period the most urgent needs of a number of   conducted with respect to a number of small
the European countries were met through large   loans for specific productive purposes which
grants made by the United States under the   seem clearly desirable irrespective of the ulti-
Interim Aid Act. Finally, on April 3, 1948,   mate form of ERP. One such loan has recently
the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 was   been made-$12 million to four Dutch ship-
enacted into law, authorizing United States   ping companies for the purchase of six cargo
financial assistance for a recovery program for   ships-and several others are in the negotiation
Europe to cover a period of slightly more than   stage. In the main, however, the Bank's Eu-
four years and the establishment of an Eco-  ropean operations are now and will necessarily
nomic Cooperation Administration (ECA) to   continue for the next few years to be condi-
administer such assistance. An initial sum of  tioned by developments in connection with the
$5 billion was made available for this purpose.   European Recovery Program.
On April 16, representatives of the sixteen Eu-
ropean participating countries and of Western   The Nature of Europe's Problem.
Germany met in Paris and signed a convention  It may fairly be said that in most European
establishing the Organization for European Eco-  countries the emergency reconstruction phase
nomic Cooperation (OEEC) to implement the  is over. Industrial production in all of the ma-
European undertakings which formed the basis  jor Western European nations, except Ger-
of the program.                            many and Italy, has closely approached or ex-
During the period while these developments  ceeded the pre-war level. Transportation and
were taking place, the Bank took the position   power facilities have, in general, been restored.
that, until the form and content of the Eu-   And although agricultural production is still
ropean Recovery Program  had taken shape,   well below the pre-war average, considerable
[ 8 ]



improvement is being made. Detailed facts and   terms unrealistic. New and bold concepts are
figures with respect to Europe's post-war pro-   required if some of Europe's fundamental
duction record are given in two recent publica-   weaknesses are to be corrected and new sources
tions, "A Survey of the Economic Situation and   of strength provided. The volume of produc-
Prospects of Europe," prepared by the U. N.   tion must be greatly increased and the costs of
Economic Commission for Europe, and The   production substantially reduced. There must
Eighteenth Annual Report of the Bank for In-   be a new pattern of production which will per-
ternational Settlements; they will not be re-   mit both a reduction of imports and an in-
peated here.                                 crease of exports. And there must be a re-
The extent of the progress made to date,   orientation of Europe's trade channels to con-
while noteworthy, provides no ground for com-   form to the fundamental changes which have
placency. In the case of post-war Europe, re-  taken place in world conditions. In short, if
construction is not synonymous with recovery   Europe is again to become self-supporting at
-the existing volume of production, despite   a tolerable standard of living, the need is for
its approximation to pre-war levels, is still far   a fundamental readjustment in the structure
from satisfying consumption, investment and   of its economy. The basic objective of the Eu-
export requirements.                         ropean Recovery Program is to enable Europe,
The many reasons for this have frequently   by its own efforts, to achieve just such a re-
been stated. One major factor is the increase   adjustment.
in Western Europe's population by approxi-   The European Recovery Program.
mately 8 % since before the war. Another is the  It is necessary in any discussion of the Eu-
change in the terms of trade to the detriment   ropean Recovery Program to distinguish be-
of the Western European countries as a whole,  tween the problems connected with the allo-
and particularly of the United Kingdom, prices   cation and use of ERP funds, on the one hand,
of the food and raw materials which constitute   and the problems connected with the readjust-
the bulk of their imports having risen consider-   ment of Europe's trade and production, on the
ably more than the prices of the industrial goods   other.
which they export. Again, the necessary liquida-  The ERP countries as a group are large
tion of foreign investments and the destruction   producers of capital equipment; in the case
of merchant vessels as a result of the war have   of such major items as coal-mining machinery
substantially reduced Europe's invisible income,   and power equipment, as much as 95 %  of
At the same time, military expenditures, vastly  their requirements can be manufactured within
increased over pre-war requirements, are ab-  the area. For the most part, therefore, ERP
sorbing as much as 20% or 25 % of the entire  funds are not needed to finance equipment
national budget of some of the ERP countries,  imports. To the contrary, they are required
causing in certain cases a severe drain on their  primarily to finance food, fuel and raw mate-
foreign exchange resources. Finally, the physi-  rial imports designed to enable the ERP coun-
cal devastation has been so great that, despite  tries to enlarge their productive and export
the capital investment already made, a portion   capacities, largely out of their own manufac-
of Europe's productive output must still be di-  tures, without at the same time suffering a dis-
verted to repair of war damage, particularly   astrous decline in their levels of consumption.
housing.                                       The effect of ERP cannot, therefore, be
Financially, these difficulties are reflected in   measured either by the particular types of goods
the balance of payments deficit of Western   it enables Europe to import or by the specific
Europe, primarily in relation to the dollar area.   uses to which those particular goods are put.
The over-all deficit in 1947 amounted to nearly   The test is a much more fundamnental one. It
$8 billion, of which more than 90% was with  is whether the European countries participat-
the Western Hemisphere.                     ing in the program, during the period while
It will not suffice, therefore, to restore Eu-   ERP funds are available to help support their
ropean production and trade as they existed   consumption standards, will be able to use the
before the war; indeed, the magnitude of Eu-   opportunity thus afforded to expand, modern-
rope's problems makes thinking in pre-war  ize and reorganize their productive mechanisms
[ 9 ]



and to effect the necessary changes in the pat-   ment of the European economy are likely to
tern of their trade.                          prove fruitless.
The stated goal of ERP is to enable the       (2) VOLUME OF PRODUCTION. Note-
ERP countries, by June 30, 1952, to reduce   worthy accomplishments in productioft have al-
their balance of payments deficit from  the   ready been achieved, considering the difficul-
1947 level of nearly $8 billion to a level of   ties arising from the war and the existing eco-
from $2-$3 billion, or by 60%  to 75%. At-   nomic organization in Europe. Further mate-
tainment of this goal may well appear suffi-  rial progress depends both upon more effec-
ciently difficult. However, it would still leave the   tive utilization of existing productive facilities
ERP countries with a formidable deficit. If, by   and upon the modernization and, in certain key
the end of the ERP period they are to become   areas, the expansion of such facilities.
independent of extraordinary outside economic   It would clearly not be appropriate for the
assistance, more must be accomplished than   Bank to attempt any analysis of how the ERP
has yet been faced up to. The measure of ac-   countries can best improve the utilization of
complishment must be what is necessary rather   their existing piant and equipment. Yet no ob-
than what has been possible in the past.      jective appraisal of the requirements for Eu-
The problems are many and complicated.   ropean recovery can fail to note the substantial
And the time for their solution is short, since   opportunities which exist to increase industrial
there is no basis to assume that, if European   output through better management techniques,
recovery is not in the main achieved by the   the standardization, concentration and speciali-
end of the ERP period, further United States   zation of production, the removal of unneces-
assistance will be forthcoming. It will not be   sarily restrictive trade union practices and, in
easy to maintain a sense of urgency over the   some cases, longer hours of work. The poten-
entire four-year period; yet if the availability  tialities are not susceptible of accurate statistical
of ERP funds is permitted to conceal the im-   estimate, but they are undoubtedly great.
mediacy and gravity of Europe's difficulties,    However, the possibilities for improved utili-
ERP will in large measure be self-defeating.   zation of existing facilities do not detract from
There is general agreement on the main pre-  the need for, and indeed in large measure depend
requisites for recovery. It may, however, be of   upon, a very substantial program for the mod-
value to summarize them briefly.              ernization and expansion of Western Europe's
(1) FINANCIAL  STABILITY. World-   plant and equipment. This cannot be accom-
wide inflation has followed the most destruc-   plished without continued diversion of a con-
tive of all wars and Europe has suffered mark-   siderable part of production from  consumers'
edly from  this plague. The principal causes   to producers' goods and without restricting ex-
have been the severe shortage of goods at the   penditures for the improvement of housing and
end of the war, investment programs which   public services to the minimum  essential to
over-taxed available resources, governmental   achieve the production goals. Such a policy is
expenditures for purposes not directly produc-   severe. It means that, in most of the ERP
tive and the lack of firm  fiscal policies. Re-   countries, it will not be possible to raise exist-
cently, strong efforts have been made by many   ing living standards to any marked degree for
of the European countries, with varying de-   a number of years. Yet unless the ERP coun-
grees of success, to bring inflationary pressures   tries maintain the discipline necessary for car-
under control; however, stability has not yet  rying out this policy, it is difficult to see how
been achieved.                                they can become self-supporting by 1952.
The Third Annual Report of the Interna-        (3)  FREEING   INTRA-EUROPEAN
tional Monetary Fund analyses in some detail   TRADE. Increase of production will not be
the problems of inflation in Europe and the   enough unless there are accessible markets in
steps necessary to correct the existing situation.   which to dispose of the expanded output, and
It suffices for purposes of this report, there-   unless efficiency is improved to an extent which
fore, to emphasize that without the firm eco-   will enable the producers to compete in those
nomic base which only monetary stability can   markets. Modern industrial techniques and
provide, all other efforts to effect a readjust-  equipment depend to a large degree upon
[ 10 ]



standardization and specialization which are  the Western European countries can by union
possible only where there are broad markets   or otherwise find the key to unlock the gates
in which goods can be freely sold.          which now obstruct the free flow of goods,
During the period between the wars there   manpower and capital among them, there is
was an increasing development of trade, cur-  grave doubt whether they can in the foresee-
rency and other restrictions which hampered   able future sustain their peoples at a standard
the free flow of goods and narrowed the mar-  of living approaching pre-war levels.
kets for European products. In the post-war    The world has long since passed 1938. Pro-
period such restrictions have increased. The   ductive processes and national financial and
free markets now  available to most of the   economic policies which may have been tol-
separate European countries are not sufficiently   erable in those days are now inadequate. It is
broad to permit full development of modern-  time to focus attention, not on the difficulties
ized production at economical cost.         of bringing those processes and policies abreast
Unless the markets for European products   of the times, but on the necessity of overcom-
can be broadened and greater freedom of intra-  ing such difficulties.
European trade can be attained, the hope for   Cooperative effort to that end in one form
ultimate European recovery will be dimmed   or another, but in some effective form, would
and the opportunity afforded by ERP will be   seem to be a sine qua non to progress. The
lost. Trade barriers in whatever form tend to   OEEC may well be the best available vehicle
breed productive inefficiency. They enable in-  for furthering that effort. It may be hoped
efficient and uneconomic enterprises to survive   that this organization will be permitted to do
and prevent efficient producers from reaching   more than just recommend how United States
the markets they need to improve their efficiency   financial assistance shall be allocated. If, in ad-
and increase their production.               dition, it is increasingly entrusted with respon-
In existing conditions certain trade restric-  sibility for guiding the necessary readjustment
tions may be necessary in order to conserve   of the ERP countries' production and trade, it
the dwindling foreign exchange resources of   should become a powerful force for the eco-
the Western European countries and the re-   nomic unification of Western Europe. The
moval of those restrictions may not be immedi-   more strength and influence that the OEEC
ately practicable. In the meantime, however,  possesses, and the more it comes to be a truly
it is vital that the Western European coun-  international body and not merely a grouping of
tries see to it that their investments in the im-   conflicting national claimants, the more it will
provement and expansion of their productive   contribute to fulfilling the great hopes which
resources are so directed that they do not ag-   ERP has inspired.
gravate the situation and constitute new sources  (4) GERMANY. The problem of Germany
of pressure for continued and increased trade   deserves special mention. Production in Bizon-
restrictions in the future. That will require a   ia, although it has shown a steady rise during
degree of economic cooperation among West-  the past year, is still only about 5 0 % of pre-war.
ern European countries which they have never   This is not attributable in major degree to the
achieved in the past.                       lack of productive facilities. The principal fac-
Whether or not the existing obstacles to  tors have rather been chaotic monetary con-
freedom  of intra-European trade can be re-   ditions, the lack of working capital, the absence
moved without some kind of European union   of effective political mechanisms, the almost
is a question on which opinions differ. The   complete disruption of trade connections, the
difficulties of achieving such a union are fre-  inevitably dampening effects of military occu-
quently underestimated by those who overlook   pation upon all sectors of the economy and
the historical and deep-rooted differences in  the over-all political uncertainty.
language, customs, traditions and  national    The condition of Germany has direct and
habits and prejudices among the European   immediate repercussions upon the economic
countries. At best the attainment of such a   situation of the rest of Europe. Before the war,
union may be a slow process.                Germany accounted for approximately 11 %
The fact remains, nevertheless, that unless   of the international trade of the ERP countries;
r 11 I



in 1947 the comparable figure was about 2%.   States dropped from 7.1%  to less than 5.7%
Clearly, therefore, more  effective  utiliza-   of the total and, in volume, were considerably
tion of German productive facilities, to the   below the 1938 figure. This occurred despite
extent consistent with security precautions, is  the substantial tariff reductions made by the
an essential requirement for European recov-   United States in recent years, the absence of
ery. Some improvement may be hoped for as  import quotas, and a national income in the
a result of the recent currency reform, the steps   United States almost three times the 1938
being taken to improve governmental machin-  level. While exports to the Western Hemi-
ery and the considerable increase in imports  sphere as a whole amounted to 15.7%  of the
which ERP aid will make possible. A further  total as compared with 13.5 % before the war,
liberalization of the conditions now governing   this increase is far from sufficient to compen-
Germany's international trade would also be   sate for the increased demand for dollar im-
of substantial help. The pace of recovery in   ports and for the loss of dollar earnings from
Germany, however, may depend to a great  trade with the Far East.
extent upon the settlement of German political  Equilibrium cannot, therefore, be achieved
issues by the occupying powers.             without a readjustment of production  and
(5) PATTERN OF PRODUCTION AND    trade so as to promote larger exports to the
TRADE. Before the war Western Europe nor-   Western Hemisphere, even at the cost of some
mally depended on its trade with and invest-  sacrifice of established markets in Europe or
ments in the Far East, particularly Southeast   other areas. Further development in the de-
Asia, to provide it with the dollars to finance   pendent areas of the production of raw ma-
its import surplus from  the Western Hemi-  terials such as chrome, lead, copper and tin,
sphere. The importance of Southeast Asia as a   in which the resources of the United States are
source of dollar supply resulted from the fact   deficient, would seem  to afford particularly
that it was the only major region with which the   promising opportunities. There is also a large
United States had an import surplus before   demand in the United States for consumer
the war. This situation no longer obtains. Re-   goods, especially those in the luxury or semi-
covery in the Far East will be a long process  luxury categories, and for other special manu-
and, even when it is achieved, it may be antici-  factures of traditional high quality. Canada and
pated that the relation of the Far Eastern   Latin America offer substantial and ready
economy to Europe and the United States will   markets for capital goods and industrial prod-
have been substantially altered. The Far East  ucts of all kinds.
may be able to provide Europe with increased   For European producers to reach the Amer-
raw material imports to replace some existing   ican market effectively, more is required, of
imports from the Western Hemisphere, but it  course, than the adjustment of their production
cannot be relied upon to provide Europe with  to the demands of that market. Steps will also
a substantial portion of the dollars necessary   have to be taken, possibly through collective
to meet its dollar import requirements. Since   action, to create promotional, distributing and
Europe cannot depend upon an export surplus   sales mechanisms which can fit successfully
with any of the other areas outside of the West-  into  established  American  marketing  pro-
ern Hemisphere to provide it with dollars and   cedures. Similarly, it is important that the trade
since only a moderate increase can be expected   policies of the United States be adapted to its
sinc ony amodeateinceas canbe xpeted position as the great creditor nation of the
in Europe's invisible dollar earnings, the long   wiorld.
run need is clearly for Europe both to increase
its xpors tothedollr ara ad todecrase It cannot realistically be expected, however,
its exports to the dollar area and to decrease  that the ERP countries will be able to expand
its imports from that area.                 their exports to the dollar area sufficiently to
No substantial progress has yet been made   finance the present level of dollar imports. It
towards attainment of the first of these ob-  is for this reason that the ERP countries are
jectives. Although the over-all exports of the   emphasizing the production of additional goods
ERP  countries increased  by approximately   of a type which will reduce their dependence
50% in 1947 over 1946, exports to the United   on dollar imports. The progress already made
[ 12 ]



is reflected by the substantially increased out-  first is the necessity that the ERP countries
put of such items as iron and steel, coal, auto-   maintain as high a rate of investment as is com-
motive equipment, shipping, chemicals, ma-   patible with monetary stability. The second
chinery and numerous other products, and ex-  is the insufficiency of ERP furds to meet all of
isting investment programs contemplate further   Western Europe's investment requirements. It
increases in such production. In addition, plans   should be noted, too, that in determining the
are under way for investments in Africa de-   amount of United States aid, it was expressly
signed to increase the supply of fats and oils  assumed that the Bank would advance substan-
and cotton.                                 tial credits to Western Europe during the ERP
Reference must also be made to the vital   period.
irnportance of East-West trade within Europe   It seems clear, therefore, tlhat there is a real
itself. In 1938, Eastern Europe accounted for   need for Bank financing in addition to the
around 8%  of Western Europe's trade; quali-  financial assistance made available by ECA.
tatively such trade was more important than   Furthermore, since the first claim on ERP funds
its aggregate quantity indicates, since each   will necessarily be for those imports most im-
area provided the other with a high percentage   mediately essential, the long-range investment
of certain key products. In 1947, however,  field seems obviously the one most appropriate
Western Europe's imports from  Eastern Eu-  for Bank assistance.
rope amounted to only 4.4%  of the total,      Accordingly, it is the intention of the Bank
while only 6%  of Western Europe's exports  to supplement ERP, to the extent that the
went to Eastern Europe. An expansion of this   Bank's resources (in the light of the other de-
trade from its present levels would make avail-   mands upon them) and the credit standing of
able to the Western European nations addi-  the ERP countries permit, primarily by financ-
tional supplies, particularly of foodstuffs, coal  ing projects which involve permanent additions
and timber, which they need to replace present  to productive capacity. The Bank will be par-
dollar imports, and would make available tO  ticularly interested in those projects which will
the  Eastern  European  nations  increased   benefit more than one of the participating na-
amounts of the capital equipment and indus-  tions and which will generally promote inter-
trial raw materials they require for their re-   national trade.
construction and development programs. The     The Bank will take steps to ensure that proj-
recent unanimous resolution of the Economic  ects which it finances are not inconsistent with
and Social Council of the United Nations, re-   any over-all investment program which may
questing its Economic Commission for Europe   be formulated for purposes of ERP. To this
to take steps to promote trade throughout the   end, the Bank proposes to consult with the
whole of Europe, is encouraging in this respect,   OEEC and ECA with respect to prospective
since it indicates a general recognition of the   loans to any of the participating countries. The
importance of East-West trade and some agree-   Bank will also keep itself continually informed
ment to move towards its improvement.        with respect to the activities and policies of
the OEEC and ECA, particularly in connection
with loans proposed to be made out of ERP
The European Recovery Program is still too   funds.
new, and the policies of both ECA and OEEC     It does not seem feasible at the present time
are still too much in the formative stages, for  to make even an estimate of the amount of
a definite statement to be made at this time   loans the Bank can and should make to the
with respect to the manner in which the Bank   participating countries, either during the first
may most effectively supplement the financial   year or over the entire period of ERP. Any such
assistance being furnished by the United States   estimate would involve too many imponder-
to the ERP countries.                       ables, such as the amount of its own bonds
Two points which have been emphasized in   which the Bank may be able to sell in the mar-
the foregoing discussion, however, furnish a   ket and the timing of such sales, the amount
significant indication of what may reasonably   of the other justifiable claims which may be
be expected to be the Bank's proper role. The   made upon the Bank's resources and the pace
[ 13 ]



of European recovery. The extent of possible   Dependence of Europe on Other Areas.
Bank assistance depends, too, upon whether     No discussion of the European problem
the amount and terms of ECA loans impose   would be complete without reference to the
upon the recipient countries such a burden of  inter-dependence of European recovery and
repayment that they cannot assume further   economic progress in the rest of the world. The
indebtedness to the Bank. It is obvious, how-   rehabilitation of Europe, by providing both
ever, that to the extent that ERP funds are   an increased source of supply for the capital
made available in the form of grants rather   and other industrial goods needed for the de-
than loans and that loans are made on terms   velopment and  further industrialization  of
which do not interfere with Bank financing,   Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle
ERP aid will facilitate rather than impede the   East, and an increased market for their prod-
Bank's operations in the participating countries.  ucts, particularly foodstuffs and raw materials,
Such aid should serve to improve the economic   will contribute substantially to their prosperity.
position of the recipient nations to a point where   Equally, however, the further development of
loans by the Bank will not only be a better risk,  these areas, as both a market and source of
but will be more likely to serve their intended   supply, is essential to the long-run economic
purpose of making a lasting contribution to-   well-being of Europe.
wards increasing Europe's productive capacity.
In the foregoing discussion particular em-   LATIN AMERICA, ASIA, AFRICA AND
phasis has been placed on the future role of           THE MIDDLE EAST
the Bank in the ERP countries, because it is
evident that ERP and its administration are   Potentialities and Basic Problems
bound to have an important bearing on the
Bank's future operations in Europe. As is indi-   o
cated in the discussion, the Bank is not unmind-  The Bank's continued interest in assisting
ful of the importance of the economic devel-   European recovery has not prevented a defi-
opment of its member countries in Europe   nite increase in its activities in other parts of
which are not participants in ERP.           the world during the past year; in fact, the
It is unfortunate but nonetheless re  that   problems of the Bank's underdeveloped mem-
the existing political difficulties and uncertain-   ber countries are more and more occupying
ties in Europe present special problems which   the major portion of the Bank's attention and,
have thus far prevented the Bank from mak-  in the long run, they will undoubtedly consti-
ing loans in those countries. The Bank is fully   tute the Bank's primary concern.
cognizant of the injunction in its Articles of  Some indication of the extent of both the
Agreement that its decisions shall be based only   potentialities and needs of the underdeveloped
on economic considerations. Political tensions   countries of the world is provided by the wide
and uncertainties in or among its member coun-   disparity which exists between their produc-
tries, however, have a direct effect on economic  tivity and, therefore, their standards of living,
and financial conditions in those countries and   and those of the more highly developed coun-
upon their credit position.                  tries, notably in North America and Western
The Bank believes that there are substantial   Europe. It is estimated, for example, that the
opportunities for the development of the pro-   average income per head in the United States
ductive resources of ith   eelmbe  countries i-  is over $1300, in the United Kingdom  is
ductive resources of its member countries in   between $700 and $750, and in the Western
Europe which are not participants in ERP. It
'~ ~ ~ ~~~unetite    E   uropean countries as a whole iS somewhat
hopes, therefore, that the existing uncertainties   above $500. The bulk of the underdeveloped
can be clarified to an extent which will en-   countries, on the other hand, are estimated to
able it to render financial assistance in the   have an average income per head of only
development of such countries, which will not   around $100; in a number of them, particu-
only be of benefit to them but to Europe gen-  larly in the Far East, the figure is somewhat
erally, and it is continuing to explore such   lower and in very few is it above $200.
possibilities.                                 To raise the income level of the underde-
[ 14 J



veloped countries requires an expansion of their   war. Even in those areas where a substantial
production, primarily through  technological  increase in production has been realized in re-
development and increased capital investment.  cent years, their standard of living has not im-
This has always been a primary objective of   proved correspondingly, and frequently has not
the underdeveloped countries but its impor-  improved at all, because of the large increase
tance is now more sharply focused than ever  in their population. It is natural, then, that
before because, as a result of modern means   the underdeveloped countries should press for
of communication, their peoples are becoming   faster progress in developing their resources,
increasingly aware of the contrast between   to narrow as rapidly as possible the economic
their status and that of the peoples of the more   gap between them and the more advanced na-
economically advanced nations. The more ad-  tions.
vanced countries, too, have a vital interest in  In focusing attention on this goal-which is
promoting the development of the underdevel-  also a primary goal of the Bank-it is easy
oped areas, for the more effective utilization   to forget that development is necessarily a
of the vast resources of those areas will result  process measured in decades, not years. Some
directly in an increase in trade between them    of the difficulties involved are inherent in the
and, the more developed countries, to the sub-   fact of underdevelopment; others arise out of
stantial benefit of both.                    the special strains of the war and the post-war
Considerable progress has been made by   period; still others result from local conditions
some of the underdeveloped countries in re-   peculiar to particular countries.
cent years. It is estimated, for example, that  A fundamental obstacle to long-range de-
the aggregate output of the Latin American   velopment is the lack of capital to build the
countries as a group increased by from  15 %    necessary productive facilities and buy equip-
to 25%  from  1937 to 1947; that their pro-   ment; to provide schools and shops to train
duction of electric energy nearly doubled in   workers in new skills; and to establish the
that period; and that in a number of these   housing, public utilities, transportation and
countries employment in manufacturing indus-   other services needed for an efficiently func-
tries rose by 30%o to 40%. The steel produc-   tioning economy. A considerable portion of the
tion of India (including the territories now    capital needed must be derived, in the initial
constituting Pakistan) rose by about 35 %    stages at least, from  external sources. Since,
during the period from  1938 to 1945, and   however, foreign capital cannot be relied upon
its cement production, a good index of construc-  to do more than supplement local development
tion activity, increased by over 50%  during   efforts, it is important that the underdeveloped
the same period. In the Middle East, the de-   countries take all possible measures to encour-
velopment of oil production and the construc-
tion of pipe lines and refineries have been of   age local savings and their investment for pro-
substantial benefit in improving the economic   ductive purposes.
situation of the region, and there has been con-  A second obstacle is the shortage of tech.
siderable increase in industrial output in Egypt   nical and managerial personnel, particularly
and Turkey. Again, in the colonial areas of   those with advanced training and experience.
Africa, there has been a substantial expansion   This difficulty, which is applicable to public
and diversification of agricultural and mineral   administration as well as to industry and agri-
production, especially during the war, and a   culture, retards development at all stages. It
promising beginning has been made towards   is necessary for almost all underdeveloped coun-
the establishment of local processing and other   tries, therefore, to secure help from  foreign
manufacturing industries. In all these areas   technicians and also to institute programs of
agricultural improvements have been intro   technical training to build up an adequate local
duced on a progressively wider scale.        suppl  skilled tonnel. up           investent
On the other hand, some of the less devel- supply of skilled personnel. Direct investment
oped countries were extensively damaged dur-   by foreign business enterprises has the special
ing the war and a number of others suffered   advantage of supplying technical and man-
serious economic dislocations as a result of the   agerial skills as well as capital.
E 1S ]



Economic instability often imposes a third   is substantially smaller than was originally
obstacle to healthy development. Many under-  expected.
developed countries are suffering from mount-  This fact is due in part to the length of
ing inflation and chaotic monetary conditions.  time required to complete the engineering and
In many instances these problems have been   other technical studies necessary to bring proj-
precipitated or intensified by the war and its  ects up to the point where they are ready for
after-effects, but often, too, they are due in  financing. In large measure, however, it reflects
large measure to unsound fiscal and monetary   the difficulties which have been mentioned-
policies followed by the governments con-  the lack of economic, financial, and in some
cerned and to the inadequacy of their finan-   cases political stability, the lack of technical
cial mechanisms.                             skills, the lack of adequate planning. And it
Again, there is lacking in many countries   provides proof, if proof be needed, that sound
any well-formulated concept of the over-all  development requires much more than simply
lines along which sound development is most   making available large sums of money.
likely to make progress. In the absence of such  The Bank is convinced that its resources
a general pattern of development, it is diffi-  cannot be used effectively to expand produc-
cult to estimate the relative importance and   tion and to raise living standards unless they
urgency of different undertakings, their ability   are invested in well-prepared and well-planned
to function economically, and the need for   projects. It is also convinced that sound de-
power, transportation and other basic facili-  velopment is best promoted, not by sporadic
ties to support them.                        injections of large amounts of capital, but
Another factor retarding development is the   rather by a steady flow of capital in moderate
low educational level of the mass of the peo-   amounts. The Bank's approach to its underde-
ples of most underdeveloped countries. To im-   veloped member countries has been framed
prove standards of living requires more than   accordingly. That approach is one of willing-
raising the average per capita income; it in-   ness to help its members to analyze their de-
volves equally an ability on the part of the   velopment problems, to work with them  in
people to utilize such increased income to   mapping out the broad lines along which their
achieve a better life.                       development may be advanced most soundly
Finally, in a number of countries unsettled   and rapidly, and whenever possible to select
political conditions impair confidence in the   for initial financing those projects which seem
future and thus impose an important restraint   most likely to contribute to such advance.
upon capital investment not only from abroad   Where economic or financial conditions in
but also out of domestic savings. In such coun-  the borrowing country are such that they en-
tries progress on the economic level depends to   danger the productive purposes and the re-
a large extent upon similar progress in the
achievement of a reasonable degree of internal   payment prospects of a Bank loan, such a loan
political stability.                         will normally be conditioned upon measures de-
These problems, in all their complexity,   signed  to bring about financial and monetaryr
directly affect the Bank's operations in the   stability and, where necessary, re-establishment
development field. To date, the Bank has   of the country's credit.
been able to grant only one loan for devel-    This approach by the Bank necessarily varies
opment purposes; it has made commitments  from  country to country. Nonetheless, the
to Chile, aggregating $16 million, for hydro-   Bank's experience to date has indicated that
electric projects and for the importation of  there are a number of guideposts of more or
agricultural machinery. Although several other  less general applicability  These may perhaps
development loans are now in an advanced   best bedeal withby conse   in turnath
stage of negotiation and discussions are 'n   bas  re  in reatontidering i turn the
progress with regard to various projects in   Banks role in relation tO (1) the pattern of
many different countries, it remains true that   development, (2) the provision of technical
the number of sound, productive investment   assistance, and (3) the stimulation of invest-
opportunities thus far presented to the Bank   ment from other sources.
[ 16 ]



Pattern of Development.                      is an essential aspect of sound development in
almost every case. It will normally be advisable,
Thldeveoimpota profr, woringmot an .ov     however, to lay initial stress on light consumer
all development program, to milnmze spotty   goods and processing industries which employ
and wasteful investmrent, has  already been   small amounts of capital equipment per work-
emphasized. It appears axiomatic that such a   er and can often build upon traditional skills in
program  should be related  to and based on   ?he introduction of mechanized  techniques.
the existing natural resources, the country's   Furthermore, because they result in a relatively
location, climate, and  type of population   quick increase in the supply of goods, these
and the financial and administrative resources  industries stimulate further development by
available. It should attempt to balance the in-   providing incentives for increased productive
crease of economic production to meet essential   effort
domestic needs with the development of ex-          .          .          . s
ports to accessible markets. It should favor the  Uni hs  ale  tgso  nutilzto
kh ave produced sufficiently broad home markets,
application of the limited supplies of capital to  there will generally be lacking the basis for
projects which will result in the greatest increase   creation of heavy industries, either to supply
in production and trade in relation to the size of   domestic needs at economic prices or to com-
the investment. If these practical ends are kept   pete in world markets. This principle is, of
in view it should not be too difficult to out-  course, subjecr to individual exceptions, espe-
line a balanced program setting forth a general   cially where the world demand situation and
pattern of development, on the basis of which   the existence of the requisite natural resources
public policies and projects can be intelligently   make the establishment of some particular
formulated and appropriate private enterprise   heavy industry economically justifiable.
stimulated.
In almost all underdeveloped countries a
The shape of appropriate programs will   major part of the necessary investment must be
vary widely. In some countries the most effec-   made for transportation and communication
tive means of development may be through   facilities, port developments, power projects,
intensive application of capital and improved   water and sewage systems and other public
techniques in agriculture and related activities.   utilities which form the basis for the develop-
The productivity of the underdeveloped coun-   ment of all other sectors of the economy. If
tries in agriculture is generally quite low. Sub-   housing and similar facilities are included, re-
stantial possibilities exist for increasing the   quirements in this category may amount to two-
amount of food and other agricultural products  thirds or more of the total capital needed.
both for local consumption and for export,   Moreover, it is of major importance that ade-
through use of modern agricultural machinery,   quate provision be made for such less directly
diversification of crops and application of mod productive investments as those required for
technical training and other educational activi-
ern methods of cultivation. Irrigation, reclama-  ties, and for nutrition and medical programs,
tion, and measures to combat erosion offer   which are essential to efficiency and morale.
important possibilities. In some cases migration   The extensive capital required for all of these
or resettlement programs may also be required.   purposes emphasizes the need for application
Development of agricultural production may   of the remaining capital to immediately pro-
usefully be accompanied by industrialization in   ductive uses rather than to premature or dis-
related lines, such as the processing of agricul-  proportionate development of heavy industries.
tural products and the production of agricultural  The Bank is not, of course, interested in pro-
equipment and supplies. This is the pattern of   moting any particular pattern of development
development which has given New Zealand,   nor has it formulated any detailed policies re-
for example, one of the highest standards of   garding the types of projects which it is willing
living in the world.                         to finance. Nonetheless, there are certain broad
The establishment or expansion of appro-   general principles which must guide its action.
priate manufacturing and processing industries   First, because the Bank's resources are limited
E 17 3



in relation to the total development needs of   vestment and tend to produce relatively quick
its member countries, it must emphasize those   and substantial returns. Since the output of these
strategic projects which will eliminate produc-   industries is generally sold mainly in the local
tion bottlenecks or generate increased output   market and since their development can be
of related goods or in related areas. Second, as   undertaken gradually, they are apt to be of
an international agency, the Bank is particu-   particular interest to, and within the reach of,
larly interested in projects which are likely to   local entrepreneurs.
contribute to a better balance in world trade.     Some other fields of investment which are
Third, the Bank's Articles of Agreement pro-   equally essential to well-balanced development
vide that "the most useful and urgent projects,   may frequently be less attractive to private cap-
large and small alike" must be dealt with first;  ital, either because of the size of the invest-
the Bank must satisfy this requirement either   ment required, or the smallness or uncertainty
by financing such projects itself or by         metreere,oltesmlnesonucrtit
bo  promog suchronitis ntseessay  helping    of the returns, or the prospect of government
torpfornote conditions necessary  for their  intervention or control. Large irrigation and
financing from other sources. And finally, the   reclad ation projects, public utilities, health and
Bank's loans must be confined to projects for     .anin progets, pbi uilities,healt and
fiacn  thog  prvt or ote chan-   trainig programs and migration schemes are
which .                            .            likely to be subject to these difficulties. While
nels is not available on reasonable terms.
,D,,  .  .              .        ~~~~~~many investments made by private capital in
The application of these general principles   the past have been in transportation, commu-
to any particular project proposed for Bank    nications and power facilities and additional
financing must obviously depend upon all of   investments may be anticipated, the trends of
the relevant facts of the case. By and large,   recent years suggest that this is the type of
however, it may be expected that private capi-   development that is most apt to require as-
tal will be most readily available, and Bank    sistance from the Bank, either in the form of
financing will therefore be least necessary, for
projects within two broad categories: first, the   direct loans or through guarantees
production and processing of primary materials,    Bank investment in meritorious light indus-
agricultural and mineral, where a large per-  try and other projects is certainly not excluded
centage of the output is destined for export   in cases where private capital is not available.
and second, the development of light manufac-   In particular, such financing by the Bank may
turing industries.                              sometimes be required, under present condi-
Projects within the first of these categories have   tions, to provide an initial stimulus to develop-
attracted  and should continue to attract private   ment before private capital will be attracted.
foreign capital, provided favorable conditions   In the long run, however, if the Bank is to play
exist. The  principal incentive for such invest-  its proper role of encouraging and supplement-
ment is the world demand for the materials   ing, rather than supplanting, private interna-
produced-petroleum  metal ores timber sugar   tional investment, it must emphasize those
produsedsadthe lieta. Thene   for mano    basic undertakings which, on the one hand,
oil seeds and the like. The need for many of   are relatively less attractive to private capital
these products is growing, while existing sources   and, on the other, will help to promote the flow
of supply for some of them are being seriously   of such capital into other sectors of the econ-
depleted. Furthermore, foreign investment in   omy.
projects of this type is apt to involve less of
a transfer risk than the financing of other   Provision of Technical Assistance.
types of development, because the direct re-       S
sult of the investment is to make additional       Successful  development depends in most
goods available for export, thereby providing    cases just as much  upon  the  provision of tech-
the foreign exchange necessary for ineet        nical assistance fromn abroad as upon the availa-
thiend foreignd amortzatonge n sarym interest,   bility of foreign capital. It is an important con-
cern of the Bank, therefore, not only to provide
Light consumer industries are also likely to   financial help but also to ensure that adequate
be attractive'to private capital because they do   technical assistance is available to define the
not usually involve any very large single in-   shape of a sound over-all development pro-
[ is I



gram, to assign priorities and prepare specifica-  tries to establish suitable machinery to under-
tions for projects within that prograrn, and to  take or coordinate comprehensive surveys of
formulate and help effectuate the economic and   development possibilities, to establish priorities
financial policies necessary for its success.  for projects to be undertaken under govern-
Clearly the Bank cannot by itself provide a   mental auspices, to work out appropriate sources
major share of the external technical assistance   and methods of financing, both domestic and
that is required. Such assistance will have to be   foreign, to propose measures for encouraging
sought largely from  independent consultants   private investment and to review  economic
and private enterprise; in appropriate cases,  and financial policies in the light of develop-
too, assistance may be secured through inter-   ment needs. Where desirable, the Bank is
governmental arrangements or from other mi-   willing, acting so far as possible in cooperation
ternational organizations, such as the United   with the International Monetary Fund, to ad-
Nations, the International Monetary Fund and   vise with the government of the country con-
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the   cerned on the ways and means by which such
United Nations. The Bank can, however, play   machinery might best be established.
a constructive role by helping its member coun-
tries to secure technical assistance from these  (3) The Bank iS also prepared to assist
otriesr  securces tehnic advsiwith them from    member governments in mapping out the gen-
other sources and by advising th gem frn   eral contours of an appropriate program of eco-
time to timne concerning the general pattern noicdvlpeticuigncsarim
of their programs and the economic and finan-   novmc development, including  necessary im-
cial problems which confront them. The Bank   provements in the country s financial structure
is in a particularly good position to be of help   as well as additions to its productive capacity,
in these connections, not only because it i   and providing for measures to encourage pri-
recognized to be objective in its approach, but   vate investment as well as for government-
also because, as one of the principal Sources of   financed projects. The Bank does not, of course,
ialsonbecause,as fineaoftheprincing,pc    s es atof b attempt to impose a particular conception of
international financing, its advice is apt to b    development on any country. Any development
persuasive.                                   program, if it is to have the necessary popular
In formulating its policies with respect to   and governmental support, must emerge from
furnishing advice to its member governments,  the thinking of the responsible leaders of the
the Bank has borne in mind that it must avoid   country itself. The proper role for the Bank is
any gratuitous interference in the internal af-  rather that of providing impartial counsel and
fairs of any country, or the assumption of   of stimulating and crystallizing local thinking
financial or other commitments which it can-   toward agreement on a sound program which
not fulfill, or too deep an involvement in the   will enlist the support of all elements within
details of a particular program. The general   the country.
approach it has adopted may be summarized as
follows:                                         (4) The Bank itself is in no position to pro-
(1) Insofar as possible, in the light of its   vide extensive aid in working out the details
other responsibilities, the Bank is prepared to   of particular development programs. Upon re.
undertake, upon request, a broad investigation   quest, however, it is ready to recommend quali-
of conditions in any underdeveloped member  fied independent experts in various fields, such
country. This provides the basis for general   as agriculture, industry, engineering, finance
conclusions as to the country's development   and taxation, to provide the assistance required.
needs and possibilities, the principal obstacles  ( 5 ) After the general outlines of a develop-
to development and the internal measures re-   ment program have been formulated, the Bank
quired to overcome those obstacles. Such Bank   is ready to consult periodically with the gov-
investigations have already been undertaken   ernment concerning the progress made and the
or are in process in Bolivia, Chile, Colombia,   problems encountered in carrying out the pro-
Ecuador, the Lebanon, Mexico, Peru and the   gram and concerning any alterations that may
Philippines. A number of additional investiga-   be required to meet changed conditions.
tions are planned for the near future.          The granting of loans by the Bank need not
(2) The Bank encourages its member coun-   await the formulation by the borrowing coun-
( 19 3



ty of an over-all development program or the   inter-governmental and  International Bank
adoption by it of all necessary economic, finan-   loans. In the long run, however, development
cial and administrative measures. To the con-   on the scale that is within the range of practi-
trary, it is hoped that it will frequently be pos-   cability needs financial assistance in amounts
sible for the Bank to select particular meri-   which only the free flow of private capital can
torious projects for financing concurrently with   provide. Furthermore, it is desirable that a con-
the initiation by the borrower of such measures.   siderable part of the foreign capital employed
for development purposes be in the form of
Stimulation of Investment                       equity investments in order to avoid an undue
From  Other Sources.                            burden of fixed charges which might impair
It is inherent in what has already been said   the credit of the borrowing country or intensify
that t jits balance of payments problems during a
that the major effort in the development of any   period of declining trade or falling prices. One
country must be made by that country itself.   of the principal objectives of the Bank, there-
Foreign assistance may be important, even es-   fore, is to help to create conditions which will
sential, but the initiative, the labor and the   encourage a steady and substantial stream  of
greater part of the capital must be supplied   private investment, particularly equity invest-
locally. Indeed, in the long run foreign invest-   ment, flowing into its underdeveloped member
ment may impede rather than accelerate devel-   countries.
opment along sound lines unless domestic con-      Many of the Bank's policies, already men-
ditions furnish a firm economic base for such   tioned, may help to overcome some of the ex-
investment.                                     isting obstacles to private international invest-
A prime concern of any country seeking to   ment. It has already been pointed out, for ex-
promote rapid development, therefore, must be   ample, that the Bank, when considering a loan
to make the most effective possible use of local   application, takes into account the willingness
capital resources. In some cases the amount of   of the borrowing country to take effective
local wealth available is substantial, but because   measures to promote economic and financial
of unstable conditions and lack of effective   stability, to eliminate discriminatory restrictions
financial mechanisms to channel it into pro-   which impede the flow of private capital, to
ductive investment, much of it may be held   rehabilitate its credit standing, where that may
abroad or applied to purposes which do not   be necessary, and otherwise to create conditions
contribute to the development of the country.   which will attract private investment. It has
In some cases, loans by the Bank and other   also been pointed out that the Bank is prepared
foreign financing may help to correct this situ-   to help its members in obtaining the technical
ation by facilitating the establishment of more   assistance required to implement these meas-
stable economic and financial conditions. But   ures and to work out sound development pro-
the major responsibility for promoting produc-   grams. To the extent that the Bank's efforts
tive investment of local resources must be as-   along these lines are successful they should con-
sumed by the local government itself, by fol-  tribute substantially to an increase in the flow
lowing sound fiscal and monetary practices, by   of private capital.
adopting tax policies designed both to encour-     There may well be cases, too, whe:e develop-
age increased capital formation and to channel   ment projects which come to the attention of
it into productive enterprise, and in appropriate   the Bank appear suitable for private financing.
cases by encouraging the creation of an active   In such cases, the Bank may be able to suggest
local capital market. Action along these lines   possible sources of capital, or to bring the proj-
will not only help to increase the amount of   ects to the attention of investing groups, or
local resources  available  for development,   otherwise to assist in arranging the necessary
thereby reducing the need for foreign financing,   financing. The Bank may sometimes also be
but will also assist greatly in attracting such   able to facilitate the raising of private capital
foreign capital as may be required.             for meritorious projects by making loans to
Some part of the necessary foreign capital   cover part of the capital cost. Bank participa-
may be obtainable from public sources, through   tion in such investments would reduce the
f 20 ]



amount of capital that would have to be raised   to capital-exporting and capital-importing coun-
privately and at the same time the Bank's tangi-  tries alike. On the one hand, private investors
ble demonstration of confidence in the sound-   must recognize the necessity for conducting
ness of the investments should increase their  their affairs in accordance with the public in-
attractiveness to private investors.        terest of the underdeveloped countries; note-
Through the use of its guarantee powers the   worthy progress has, in fact, already been made
Bank can itself assume the risk of loans made   in this direction. On the other hand, the under-
from private funds. Such loans, of course, do   developed countries must increasingly recognize
not constitute private international investment  that extreme protectionist measures resulting in
in the usual sense of the term, but they do estab-  the inequitable treatment of private foreign
lish a direct relationship between private lender   capital are neither required nor justified and
and borrower which may lead to other credit  are harmful to the development of their
operations without the Bank's intervention. In   economies.
addition, the Bank is examining the possibili-    It seems clear that the real measure of the
ties of granting limited guarantees-for ex-   Bank's effectiveness will be, not so much the
ample, a guarantee of transfer of interest-to   number or amount of its loans and guarantees,
reduce the special risks involved in interna-  significant as they may be, but rather its suc-
tional financing without eliminating the private  cess in influencing attitudes-in promoting a
character of the investment.                realistic, constructive approach to development
Finally, the Bank may be able to contribute   problems on the part of its members and in
to the flow of private capital by encouraging   fostering a greater degree of confidence among
the development of principles and practices fair  investors.
LOAN ACTIVITIES
Loans Granted                               merchant fleet had greatly impaired the effici-
As of the date of the Second Annual Report,  ency and competitive power of the Danish
two loans had been granted by the Bank: a   economy. Energetic measures have been taken
French loan of $250,000,000 and a Dutch   to promote recovery, and with the budget bal-
loan of $195,000,000. Following is a descrip-   anced, production increasing and price and
tion of the loans granted since that date.  wage levels under control, Denmark has at-
tained a degree of economic stability. The loan
DANISH  LOAN. On August 22, 1947, an   constitutes approximately 9%  of the estimated
agreement was signed granting a loan of $40,-  net capital expenditures to be made during
000,000 to the Kingdom of Denmark. The   1947-1948, the bulk of the reconstruction ef-
loan bears interest at the rate of 34 % per an-  fort depending upon private enterprise and
num, in addition to the special commission of   private financing. The Danish loan is in accord
1 % per annum. The loan is for a period of 25   with the Bank's mandate to foster the economic
years, with amortization beginning after the   recovery of member nations and is justified by
fifth year. It came into effect on October 17,  the record of the Danish people in their en-
1947.                                       deavor to regain economic stability.
The loan is designed to assist Danish eco-   LUXEMBOURG LOAN. On August 28, 1947,
nomic recovery by financing the import, during   an agreement was signed granting a loan of
1947 and 1948, of essential capital goods and   $12,000,000 to the Grand Duchy of Luxem-
raw materials, such as agricultural and textile   bourg. Since some of the proposed expenditures
machinery, machine tools, trucks, steel, textile   under this loan were to be in Belgian francs,
fibres, non-ferrous metals and chemicals.   the loan offered an opportunity to use a por-
By the end of the war, German depredations,  tion of the equivalent of $2,000,000 in Bel-
the depreciation of farm  and industrial ma-   gian francs which the Belgian Government
chinery, and the loss of 40%  of the pre-war   had made available to the Bank for lending
[ 21 3



purposes out of its paid-in subscription to the   20 years, with an annual interest rate ot 32 %,
capital stock of the Bank. Part of the loan to   in addition to 1 %  commission. Amortization
Luxembourg, therefore, represents the Bank's   begins in. the sixth year.
first use of its non-dollar capital in its lending  The purpose of the loan is to provide foreign
operations. The loan bears interest at 34%    exchange for the construction of additional
per annum in addition to 1 % commission, and   hydro-electric plants and related transmission
is for a period of 25 years, amortization begin-   lines, for the installation of additional generat-
ning at the end of the second year. The loan   ing units in existing plants and for the installa-
came into effect on October 24, 1947.          tion of pumping equipment for irrigation. The
The purpose of the loan is to finance the   existing supply of power is insufficient to cover
purchase of equipment for the Luxembourg   present and prospective needs. In view of the
steel industry and of rolling stock for its rail-   high cost and relative insufficiency of coal and
ways. Iron and steel is the major industry of   liquid fuels, the development of Chile's exten-
Luxembourg, and exports of metallurgical prod-   sive potential hydro-electric resources is of
ucts in the years directly preceding the war ac-   prime importance to the Chilean economy.
counted for up to 80%  of all exports. Owing      The second Chilean loan, of $2.5 million,
to under-maintenance during the war, the in-   is to the Fomento organization for the pur-
dustry is in need of modernization and its pro-   chase of agricultural machinery. This loan is for
duction requires adaptation to post-war market   a term of six and one-half years, with amorti-
requirements.                                  zation beginning in the third year. Interest is
The railways of Luxembourg are also of vital   at 2 3/4 %  per annum, in addition to 1 %  com-
importance both as adjuncts to the country's   mission. The agricultural program, which this
heavy industry and as international carriers  loan is designed to assist, is expected to decrease
linking the Ruhr, the Saar, Lorraine, Switzer-  the cost of production by increased mechaniza-
land and other inland areas and the Low Coun-   tion of agricultural equipment and to increase
try ports. At present the railways of Luxem-   the amount of land available for agricultural
bourg are suffering from a shortage of rolling   production by bringing into cultivation areas
stock.                                         now covered by forest, turning pasture land
The loan from the Bank, by providing the   into crop land, and shortening the time re-
means for raising the volume of traffic over   quired for harvesting in certain areas. Special
Luxembourg's railways and for expanding the   attention is being given in connection with this
country's capacity to produce the type of steel   program to the technical training of personnel
products for which there is a heavy demand, is  in order that full advantage may be taken of
designed to increase Luxembourg's national   the equipment to be made available.
production and its export potential. In addition,  Both loans are to be guaranteed by the Gov-
because of the critical shortage of rolling stock   ernment of Chile. A  bill to authorize such
in Europe and the part which iron and steel   guarantee has been introduced into the Chilean
play in the reconstruction of the continent, the   legislature and is expected to be enacted short-
loan should contribute to Europe's recovery.   ly. The loans will not come into effect until
CHILEAN LOANS. On March 25, 1948, com-   such guarantee is given.
mitments for two Chilean loans, totalling $16     The Bank has observed with satisfaction that
million, were entered into by the Bank. The   the Chilean Government has taken steps to
first is a loan of $13.5 million for hydro-elec-   remedy certain conditions to which the Bank
tric development in Chile. The borrowers are   drew attention as likely to impair the efficacy
Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n   of a loan and to deter the resumption of inter-
(Fomento), an instrumentality of the Chilean   national investment in Chile. The budgetary
Government created to promote Chilean eco-   situation has been improved and progress has
nomic development, and Empresa Nacional de   been made in arresting inflation. Early this year
Electricidad, S.A. (Endesa), a subsidiary of   the various foreign bondholders' associations
Fomento engaged in generating and distribut-   accepted proposals put forward by Chile for a
ing electric energy. This loan is for a term of   readjustment of the country's external debt, the
E 22 1



full service of which had been interrupted by   an equal portion of the original loan. In sub-
the depression of the 1930's, and the Chilean   stance, the transaction was merely an arrange-
Congress has recently passed legislation mak-   ment enabling the Bank to utilize, for the
ing this readjustment effective.            Netherlands loan, the Swiss francs acquired for
this purpose through a sale of the Bank's 2;/2 %
SUPPLEMENTAL DUTCH LOAN. On May   Swiss Franc Serial Bonds to the Bank for Inter-
25, 1948, a Supplemental Loan Agreement was   national Settlements. The Supplemental Loan
entered into between the Bank and the King-   Agreement became effective on June 1, 1948.
dom of the Netherlands providing for certain
modifications in the Loan Agreement dated   DUTCH  SHIPPING  LOAN. On July 29,
August 7, 1947, by which a loan of $195 mil-  1948, agreements were executed providing for
lion was granted to the Netherlands. These  loans to four of the principal Dutch shipping
modifications took the form of a new loan of   companies to finance the entire purchase price
17 million Swiss francs (the equivalent of ap-   of six merchant vessels, each costing $2 mil-
proximately $4,000,000) and a cancellation of  lion, for the Dutch mercantile marine:
Shipping Company                     No. of Ships   Amount of Loan
N.V. Nederlandsch-Amerikaansche Stoomvaart-Maatschappij
"Holland-Amerika Lijn" (Holland-America Line)   ............  1        $ 2 million
N.V. Vereenigde Nederlandsche Scheepvaartmaatschappij
(United Netherlands Navigation Company) ......................  1     $ 2 million
N.V. Rotterdamsche Lloyd (Rotterdam-Lloyd Line) ................  2      $ 4 million
N.V. Stoomvaart Maatschappij "Nederland" (Nederland Line)    2           $ 4 million
Totals  ........................ ...................................   6  $12  million
These ships, which are being acquired from    current costs of construction, at a time when
the Waterman Steamship Corporation, were   delivery of similar new ships could not be guar-
formerly "baby flat-tops" and have been recon-   anteed in less than 18 months. They will thus
verted, or are in process of reconversion, into   be able to take full advantage of the favorable
srcam-turbine cargo liners. All are expected to   ocean traffic prospects during the ERP period,
be in commission by the end of October, 1948.   and their low operating costs should enable
Easis secured by a Nether-  them to maintain profitable operation. The bor-
Eacdship mofrthges landis representedbyser rowing companies have a long-standing repu-
lands ship mortgage    and is reented b al   tation for sound and successful management.
mortgagernotes ry    in teant  ieuahl    The addition of these vessels to the Dutch mer-
yearly maturitoes of 100,000, bearing Interest  cantile marine is expected to save or earn for
at the rate of 2 % per annum. In addition,  tthe Netherlands over the period of amortiza-
the borrowers are to pay to the Bank a commis-  tion at least sufficient dollars to meet the whole
sion of 1 %  per annum and a service charge   service of the loans, entirely apart from the re-
of 1-16% per annum. The payment of princi-  turn in other currencies.
pal, interest, commission and service charges is  The Bank has also given due weight to the
fully guaranteed by the Netherlands Govern-   fact that, despite the continued handicaps im-
ment.                                       posed by disrupted economic relations with
In making these loans, the Bank has taken   Germany and the Netherlands East Indies,
into account the importance of shipping earn-  there has been substantial progress in the re-
ings in the Dutch balance of payments. The   construction of the Dutch economy, to which
six ships have been acquired at a price below    a significant contribution has been made by
[ 23 I



the $195 million loan granted by the Bank      As was to be expected, most of the expen-
in 1947.                                     ditures financed by the Bank's loans were made
in the United States. Nevertheless, substantial
Use of Loan Proceeds                         amounts were spent in other countries. As of
At the date of this report, the entire amount   June 30, 1948, out of the $470.1 million dis-
of the French and Dutch loans and of the loan   bursed by the Bank, the geographical distri-
to the several Dutch shipping companies has   bution of expenditures, in round numbers by
been disbursed, an aggregate of $457 million    groups of countries, was as follows:
Approximately  $21  million  has been dis-                                  Amount
bursed under the loan to Denmark and $9          Area of                 (In millions of
million under the loan to Luxembourg.            Expenditure              U. S. dollars)
Most of the disbursements were made for        United States               356.4
the purpose of assisting in financing large gen-
eral programs of reconstruction. In these pro-   Canada                       12.5
grams, the Bank's loans played a significant      Latin America               50.0
but by no means preponderant role. It would      Europe                       47.7
obviously not be possible fully to appraise the  Near East                     2.2
effect of the Bank's contribution without a de-  Africa                        1.2
tailed analysis of the programs, the goals they   Far East                      .1
were designed to achieve and the extent to
which these goals have been attained. It may
be useful, nevertheless, to set forth some of                                470.1
the principal categories of supplies and equip-   Loan Discussions
ment to which the proceeds of the Bank's loans
have been applied, as an illustration of rhe   It iS not possible to summarize the current
saveoso thee    Eoplied,an economy iuston w     the   state of the Bank's loan discussions by compil-
Bank's activities have made themselves felt.    ing a simple list of outstanding applications,
each characterized by a definite amount and
FRENCH  LOAN-Tankers, general cargo   purpose. The earlier contacts between the
vessels, river barges, tugs and light-ships; trans-   Bank and a prospective borrower usually take
port aircraft and spare engines; locomotives   the form of an indication by the borrower, in
and parts for the construction and repair Of   general terms, of its development or recon-
locomotives and freight cars; equipment for a   struction aims and of tentative inquiries as to
continuous strip steel mill, for automobile and   the possibility and conditions of Bank assist-
truck manufacture, for oil drilling and for agri-  ance. These inquiries may develop into ex-
culture; earth-moving  equipment; fuel; indus-   ploratory conversations leading to an invita-
trial materials, principally steel products, cop-  tion to the Bank to study the reconstruction
per and cotton.           or development program of the borrower or
per and cotton.                              specific projects which the borrower proposes
DUTCH  LOAN-Ships; equipment for the   to undertake; this generally involves sending
shipbuilding, metal and textile industries; fuel;   a Bank mission to the country in question.
feeding grains and cakes; fertilizer; industrial   Only after the Bank and the borrower have
materials, principally steel products for the   selected the portions of the borrower's pro-
shipbuilding and food-processing industries.  gram which are suitable for financing by the
Bank is it possible to begin technical study of
DANISH  LOAN-Agricultural, textile and   selected projects and negotiations in terms of
chemical equipment; rolling-mill steel prod-   a definite sum. The Bank's experience indi-
ucts; copper and fibers.                     cates that an informal and flexible approach
of this nature is more fruitful than the sub-
LUXEMBOURG  LOAN-Equipment for a   mission at the outset of a definitive applica-
steel rolling-mill; locomotives and other rail-  tion.
way rolling stock.                             The Bank has at present under considera-
[ 24 ]



tion projects in more than 20 member coun-   proximately $4 million in borrowed Swiss
tries. Discussions are in various stages, rang-   francs, was advanced out of capital funds
ing from exploratory talks to detailed nego-   rather than out of borrowed funds. Since cap-
tiations. They cover a great variety of proposed   ital funds are available to the Bank without
projects, such as power developments, trans-   cost, in contrast to borrowed funds on which
portation and communication facilities, irri-  the Bank must pay interest, the preponder-
gation, reclamation  and  other agricultural   ance of loans out of capital has obviously had
projects, shipbuilding, migration  programs,   a favorable effect on the profit-and-loss ac-
mining development and industrial plants. In   count. Until additional amounts of the Bank's
the course of investigating these various loan   capital become available for lending, the pro-
requests, the Bank has sent technical missions   portion of loans made out of borrowed funds
to 13 countries and a number of similar mis-   will increase as the Bank's loan operations
sions are planned for the near future.        expand and the rate of profit in relation to
the volume of loans outstanding will there-
Results of Operations and Loan Charges        fore tend to decrease.
As reflected in the annexed Statement of      During the past year, the level of interest
Income and Expenses (Appendix  B), the   rates rose in the United States mark-et. Since
Bank's operations during the fiscal year ended   this development affected the estimated cost
June 30, 1948 resulted in an excess of in-   of money to the Bank, appropriate increases
come over expenses of $4,094,652  (exclu-   were made in the interest rates charged on
sive of loan commissions credited to the Spe-   Bank loans. The extent of the change, as related
cial Reserve). The excess was sufficient to  to long-term transactions, can be measured by
cover the deficit accumulated in prior years   comparing the rate of 31/2 %  charged on the
and to provide a net profit of $3,030,847 as   20-year loan to Fomento (Chile) in 1948
of June 30, 1948. In addition to this net profit,   with the rate of 3 4%  charged on long-term
$3,084,930 has been set aside in the Special  loans in 1947. No change was made in the
Reserve.                                      rate of commission, which remained at 1 5'c.
The Bank believes the results of its first year  During 1948, the Bank entered the field
of active operations indicate that its loan   of specific project loans, involving disburse-
charges have been adequate and reasonable.   ment of loan proceeds over extended periods.
Those charges are related to the cost to the   Typical applications for such loans contem-
Bank of funds secured by the sale of its own   plate disbursement over three, four and five
obligations; they are low   compared to the   years, in contrast to the periods of six to 18
historical rates for foreign lending and to the   months that characterized earlier applications.
rates which have been paid in recent years   The Bank's policy has been to require the bor-
for the small number of foreign loans sold i    rower to bear a substantial part of the cost
forthesmal nmbe o foeig  lons oldin to the Bank of undisbursed funds held in
the United States market. The Bank is not   o         th e      cofiunts. With  helon
organized for the purpose of making large   order to meet commitments. With the longer
profits, and its charges should clearly not be   disbursement periods, that cost would increase
so high as to impose unreasonable burdens on   substantially. Accordingly, on loans made in
its borrowers. Nevertheless, it is in the inter-   1948, after an initial six months period at
est of the Bank, its members and its security   1 %  commitment charge, borrowers were
holders, and ultimately of borrowers and po-   charged full interest on undisbursed funds
tential borrowers as well, that the Bank ac-  subject to a credit calculated to approximate
cumulate reasonable reserves against future   the rate earned by the Bank on its short-term
contingencies.                               investments.
In reviewing the results of the Bank's op-   Administration of Loans
erations for the past year, there should be
taken into account the fact that the entire     One of the significant developments of the
amount disbursed on loans, except for ap-   past year has been the establishment of proce-
[ 25 ]



dures in conformity with Section 5 (b) of Article   borrower. If they are adequate for the purpose,
III of the Bank's Articles of Agreement, which   the subsequent investigations are based on the
requires that the Bank "make arrangements to   borrower's records, with suitable checks and,
ensure that the proceeds of any loan are used   in appropriate cases, physical inspection. When
only for the purposes for which the loan was   necessary, the Bank suggests to the borrower
granted, with due attention to considerations of   supplementary procedures.
economy and efficiency and without regard to    Procedures for disbursement and end-use
political or other non-economic influences or   supervision must, of course, vary with the
considerations."                              varying problems presented by different loans.
When a loan is granted, the goods and   As the Bank deals more and more with specific
services to be purchased with the proceeds of   projects in the development field, involving
the loan are determined by agreement between   construction in accordance with detailed en-
the Bank and the borrower. The proceeds of the   gineering plans and specifications, the Bank
loan are subject to withdrawal by the borrower   expects that it will be able to place more em-
only upon satisfactory certification that expen-   phasis on following the general progress of the
ditures have been made or will be made for the   project from  an engineering standpoint. The
purchase of authorized goods and services, that   Bank's concern in such cases is to see that the
the cost and terms of purchase thereof are   proceeds of the loan are devoted exclusively
reasonable and that the cost has not been and   to the furtherance of the project and that the
will not be financed out of any other credit  project is carried through to completion with
available to the borrower. The borrower must   due efficiency, economy and diligence. The
also submit to the Bank in due course docu-   Bank is, therefore, interested in the project as
mentary evidence of the purchase, payment and   a whole and not primarily in individual items
delivery.                                     of supplies and equipment financed by the
These disbursement operations are similar to   Bank. Comparison of accounting and engineer-
those of commercial banks in making payments  ing progress reports with original estimates,
under documentary letters of credit. In practice,   supplemented by inspection of the project by
the Bank frequently makes disbursements on   engineers and other technicians, will be the
the basis of reports by commercial banks that   normal procedure.
payment has been made by them under letters     While these procedures for control of dis-
of credit. This procedure not only reduces the   bursements and end-use supervision satisfy the
administrative work of the Bank but also en-   requirements of Section 5 (b) of Article III of
ables the borrower to use normal banking fa-  the Bank's Articles, there is also need for con-
cilities. In appropriate cases the Bank deposits  tinuous cooperation between the Bank and its
funds with commercial banks as security for let-   borrowers so that the Bank may keep fully in-
ters of credit for the purchase of goods which   formed of economic and financial 'develop-
are to be financed out of the proceeds of a Bank   ments in the borrowing countries. The Bank's
loan.                                         loan agreements contain appropriate provisions
These procedures keep the Bank informed   to that end.
of the goods and services purchased with the
proceeds of its loans, the suppliers of such   Enabling Legislation
goods and services and the destination to which  The first loans made by the Bank were rati-
the goods are sent. This forms the basis of the   fied by the legislatures of the borrowing gov-
Bank's subsequent investigation of the end use   ernments. This procedure is clearly desirable
to which the goods are put. The checking of the   in the case of relatively large loans made di-
end use is generally carried out in the borrow-   rectly to governments. However, in the case of
ing country by field representatives of the   loans made to private enterprises and to certain
Bank. In the first instance this checking relates   types of government agencies, the ratification
to the adequacy, accuracy and efficiency of the   procedure may be found to be unduly cumber-
control systems and records maintained by the   some, particularly when the loans are relatively
[ 26 ]



small in amount. Even in those cases, of course,   the desirability of enacting general enabling
the loan must be guaranteed by the member   legislation, authorizing designated officials to
government or its central bank or comparable   give the government's guarantee to loans from
agency and the Bank must be satisfied that the    the Bank and to execute such legal documents
execution of the guarantee is authorized by law.   as may be necessary for this purpose. It is de-
As a method of dealing with this problem,   sirable that the Bank be consulted in advance
the Bank's members, particularly those who    regarding proposed legislation of this kind so
foresee the possibility of a series of loans from    as to avoid subsequent questions with respect to
the Bank to official agencies or private enter-   its legal sufficiency as applied to particular
prises in their territories, may wish to consider   loans.
MARKETING ACTIVITIES
Borrowing Operations                              Bonds of 1948, in  an  aggregate principal
The first issue of bonds by the Bank on    amount of 17,000,000 francs (the equivalent
July 15, 1947, reported in the Second Annual   of approximately $4,000,000). The entire is-
Report, afforded  the Bank ample funds to   sue was purchased for investment by the Bank
cover its dollar needs during the past year.   for International Settlements at par and ac-
Accordingly, no public issues of the Bank's   crued interest. The bonds are dated April 1,
dollar securities were made during that period    1948 and mature in  1953 and  1954. The
However, the Dutch shipping loan provided    proceeds of the issue were immediately ad-
an opportunity for a marketing transaction of   vanced to the Kingdom  of  The Netherlands
a different kind. On August 6, 1948, the Bank    under the Supplemental Dutch Loan to which
sold, with its guarantee, to a group of 10    reference has already been made. Although the
United States banks a block of $8.1 million    amount of the Swiss issue is relatively small,
of the notes received by the Bank from  the   the transaction is significant as the Bank's first
Dutch  shipping companies under this loan,   borrowing of a currency other than United
This transaction was the result of a series of   States dollars.
discussions between the Bank, the Netherlands        To date the funds available to the Bank for
authorities and the United States banks. Notes   lending have come very largely from  United
covering the balance of the principal amount   States sources, either from  the 20%   paid-in
of the loan, amounting to $3.9 million and    portion of the subscription of the United States
including the longer maturities, have been re-   Government to the Bank's capital or from the
tained in the Bank's portfolio.                   proceeds of the sale of the Bank's bonds in the
The Bank's only direct borrowing operation    United States investment market. These funds,
since July 15, 1947, was the sale on June 1,   expressed in round numbers in terms of United
1948 of an issue of 212%  Swiss Franc Serial   States dollars, consist of:
20%  paid-in portion of subscription of the United States ...................................... $635,000,000
2%  portion of subscriptions of other countries paid in in gold or dollars ..............   98,300,000
Part of the 18 %  portion of the subscription of Belgium paid in in local currency ......  2,000,000
Proceeds of two bond issues in the United States ..................................................  250,000,000
Sales of Swiss Franc Bonds to the B.I.S ..........................................................   4,000,000
Net available funds from operations to June 30, 1948 ..........................................    3,200,000
Total ..........................................................       $992,500,000
[ 27 ]



Only slightly more than 10%  of the total       There would appear to be some avenues
amount, it will be noted, has come from    which offer promise of increasing to a limited
non-United States sources.                    extent the loanable resources of the Bank even
Although up to the present time the Bank   in countries not presently in a position to per-
has had ample funds for its loan operations,   mit additional exports of capital. All countries
nevertheless from  a long-range viewpoint it  require foreign exchange reserves which usually
seems clearly desirable that the Bank should  include individual holdings. These holdings, al-
supplement its borrowing  in  the  United   though they cannot safely be reduced below a
States by tapping other sources of capital.   minimum level, can in many cases readily be
This would provide a wider market for the   shifted from one form of investment to another
Bank's bonds, would reinforce the Bank's in-   and, if already invested in dollar securities simi-
ternational character and, to the extent that   lar in nature to those of the Bank, could be
the Bank would be enabled to lend money other   reinvested in the Bank's dollar securities with-
than dollars, would tend to lessen the transfer   out placing any additional burden on the ex-
problems involved in eventual repayment of   change position of the country in question. If
Bank loans. Accordingly, the Bank has en-   the Bank's members should encourage the re-
deavored to explore all possible means of ex-   investment of holdings of this kind in dollar
panding the available amount of non-United   bonds issued by the Bank, they would thereby
States capital, either by use of the 18% capital   provide a means of mobilizing for productive
subscriptions of other member countries or by   international investment foreign dollar funds
sale of the Bank's bonds outside the United   or investments held by their nationals. The
States.                                       favorable yields on the Bank's dollar bonds,
The fact that the Bank has not been able   coupled with their tax status under United
to obtain consent to the use of larger amounts   States income tax laws, should make them at-
of non-dollar capital, or to the sale of non-   tractive to non-American holders of dollars or
dollar bonds in markets outside the United   dollar securities, including those who are re-
States, is due primarily to difficulties which are   luctant to convert their holdings into local
inherent in the present economic situation of   currency. Such purchases of the Bank's bonds
the world. Most of the traditional capital ex-   by non-American nationals might well support
porters in Western Europe have deficits in their  the Bank's marketing activities in the United
current balances of payments; it is not to be   States because they would properly be regarded
expected that they can at the same time sub-   as constituting an expression of confidence in
stantially expand their foreign investments.  the Bank's operations and would underline the
And even the relatively few countries which   Bank's international cooperative character. Ac-
have maintained a favorable foreign exchange   cordingly, discussions are being conducted with
position are increasingly hesitant to undertake   several member countries with respect to the
substantial foreign loan commitments for fear   possibility of the sale in their markets of dollar
of aggravating domestic inflationary pressures   bonds of the Bank.
or unduly depleting their foreign exchange re-   L
serves. But the Bank cannot function with full   Legislative Program
effectiveness as an international agency, and   In the United States, institutional investors,
cannot fulfill its purpose of promoting a better   such as insurance companies, banks and trusts,
balance in world trade, unless it can draw funds   constitute the largest group of potential pur-
for its loans from expanded sources of capital.  chasers of securities issued or guaranteed by
It is hoped, therefore, that those countries   the Bank. Investments by these institutions are
whose productivity and trade position permit  strictly regulated by the laws of the several
the export of capital will increasingly make it  states and, in certain instances, by federal law.
possible for the Bank to use for loans the   At the time when the Bank actively commenced
18%  of their capital subscription paid in in   operations, there were only a few states where
local currency, or to sell the Bank's non-dollar   institutional investors could legally invest in
securities in their investment markets.       the Bank's securities. Unless this situation could
[ 28 ]



be remedied, there was little prospect that the  One further legislative project should be
Bank would be able to sell any substantial   mentioned. During the spring of 1948, as a
amount of its securities in the United States.  result of consultations between the Bank and
Accordingly, the Bank in 1947 undertook   United States Government officials, legislation
a program to qualify its securities for institu-   was introduced into the United States Congress
tional investment in the United States. By July   authorizing national banks to deal in the Bank's
1947, these efforts had been sufficiently suc-   securities (purchases by national banks for in-
cessful to etisure an adequate market for the   vestment and for customers' account being al-
Bank's first public offering. Nevertheless much   ready authorized) and exempting the Bank's
remained to be done to prepare a market for   securities from the provisions of the Securities
future bond issues and the Bank has therefore   Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act
continued and intensified its efforts during the   of 1934. In the Bank's opinion, legislation of
past year to obtain the necessary legislative and   this character is needed to facilitate distribu-
administrative action.                         tion of future issues of its securities. The pro-
The program  has been highly successfuL   posed legislation, although favorably reported
At the date of this report, the Bank's securities   by the Senate Committee on Banking and Cur-
are (or by legislation now enacted but not   rency and passed by the Senate subject to a
yet effective soon will be) legally authorized   motion to reconsider, did not reach the floor
investments for institutional investors, subject   of the House of Representatives and thus failed
to the qualifications and conditions set forth   of enactment. The Bank expects that similar
in the applicable statutes and administrative   legislative proposals will be introduced into
rulings, as follows:                          the next regular session of the Congress.
For all national banks, and for other com-     Although the Bank's legislative program
nerciaa banks in 41 states and the       during the past year has concerned itself pri-
District of Columbia;              marily with the United States market, the
For savings banks in 22 states and the       Bank is equally interested, as has already been
District of Columbia;              pointed out, in the possibility of placing its
securities in countries other than the United
For iustfurnc     mn     in8 states   ; .  the  States. In that connection, it has made inquiries
For Dtrustrfundsint 28 stlumbatesandt  of all its members as to the possibilities of re-
Cmoving any legal restrictions, other than for-
On the basis of the latest information available   eign exchange control regulations, which may
to the Bank, this means that the Bank's securi-   exist on investment in the Bank's securities by
ties may now  be purchased by commercial   institutions in their territories and of making
banks whose deposits amount to 93%  of all  the Bank's securities eligible for deposits re-
commercial bank deposits in the United States,   quired by law of foreign corporations doing
mutual savings banks whose deposits amount   business in their territories. The response to
to 95 %  of all such deposits in the United   these inquiries has been desultory and it is
States, and insurance companies and fraternal   hoped that the Board of Governors will take
insurance organizations whose admitted assets  steps to urge upon their respective govern-
amount to 93%  of all such assets in the   ments the advisability of vigorous cooperation
United States. These figures indicate the ex-   with the Bank in this field. The Bank intends
tent of the progress made in opening the in-   to pursue the matter further during the coming
stitutional market in the United States to the   year.
Bank's securities. In addition to their signifi-  The Bank has also obtained 'official rulings
cance for future security issues, they provide   from  the United States Treasury Department
evidence that legislatures and officials in the   in regard to the taxability, under United States
United States have come to understand the   income tax laws, of interest paid on Bank bonds
Bank's organization and operations and to rec-   held by nationals of countries other than the
ognize the sound investment quality of its   United States. The Treasury Department's rul-
obligations.                                  ings are to the effect that interest on securities
[ 29 ]



issued by the Bank is exempt from United   large institutional investors re-entered the mar-
States income taxes, including withholding   ket and the bonds recovered rapidly. The im-
taxes, if paid to an individual who is not a   provement continued during the early months
national or resident of the United States, or   of 1948 and on May 17 sales on the New
to a corporation organized under the laws of   York Stock Exchange reached a high of
a country other than the United States, whether   98-30/32 for the 21/4's due 1957 and 99-30/32
or not such corporation is engaged in trade or   for the 3's due 1972. Thereafter the bonds,
business in the United States, unless the cor-  again reacting to general market conditions,
poration is a life insurance company and the   sold off from these levels and on the date of
interest is attributable, within the meaning of  this report bids on the New York Stock Ex-
the United States Internal Revenue Code, to   change for the 214's and 3's were 964 and
the company's life insurance business in the   974 respectively.
United States. These rulings should be of sub-  The market performance of the bonds dur-
stantial assistance to the Bank in finding a   ing this period has been highly encouraging.
market for its securities in countries other than   Being unseasoned issues, not generally familiar
the United States.                          to investors and subject to special pressures be-
cause of the continual flow of unfavorable in-
Condition of United States Market           ternational news, the bonds might well have
and Future Marketing Plans                  been expected to show more weakness than the
In July 1947, when the Bank's first bond   market as a whole. In fact, however, the bonds
issues were offered to the public, a strong mar-  demonstrated a gratifying stability and resili-
ket existed in the United States for high-grade   ence and their performance, during the first
bonds. Both issues were oversubscribed and   year of their existence, was better than the
soon sold at substantial premiums. In the fol-  average market performance of comparable
lowing months, however, the high-grade bond   high-grade bonds.
market experienced a severe decline, one of the  As of August 31, 1948, the Bank had un-
most drastic that had occurred since 1931.   committed loanable funds amounting to ap-
The period of general weakness lasted in its   proximately $475 million. Until at least a
acute phase until the end of the year, culminat-  substantial portion of these funds is earmarked
ing in the action of the United States Gov-  for approved loans the Bank will be under no
ernment authorities in reducing the levels at   necessity to borrow. However, the Bank in-
which prices of Government obligations were  tends to consider carefully all opportunities
supported.                                  that may be presented to increase its loanable
This weak and uncertain market, which per-  resources by obtaining the consent of members
sisted during most of the period covered by this  to the use of their paid-in capital, by selling
report, constituted a severe trial for the Bank's  the Bank's securities in countries other than the
bonds. By mid-January 1948 the bonds had   United States, and by selling securities out of
been forced to discounts of slightly more than   the Bank's loan portfolio with or without the
52 points below their original offering prices.   Bank's guarantee. Several projects of this na-
However, as these low levels were reached,  ture are presently under consideration.
MISCELLANEOUS
Management and Organization                 William A. B. Iliff, who came to the Bank
The only change in the principal officers of  from the United Kingdom Treasury. Mr. Pineo
the Bank since the Second Annual Report was   was the Bank's first Loan Director and held
occasioned by the resignation of Mr. Charles  that important office during the crucial period
C. Pineo as Loan Director on October 31, 1947.   of the Bank's initial operations. The Bank
He was succeeded on February 5, 1948 by Mr.   wishes to record its appreciation of his loyal
[ 30 1



service. A list of the Bank's officers appears  ful. There are practically continuous contacts
as Appendix L.                              between officials of the two organizations at
The Bank's organization and the functions   all levels.
of its several departments remain as stated in  The Bank has also maintained close liaison
the Second Annual Report, except that the   with the United Nations and with other inter-
Research Department has been renamed the   national organizations whose fields of activity
Economic Department and the function of   are related to those of the Bank. The Bank
making studies of economic and financial con-   has been represented at all of the meetings of
ditions in the territories of members has been   the Economic and Social Council, the Economic
transferred from the Loan Department to the   and Employment Commission, the Subcommis-
Economic Department..                      sion on Economic Development and the Sub-
As of August 31, 1948, the Staff of the Bank   commission on Economic Stability and Em-
consisted of 435 persons and 21 different na-   ployment. It has also been represented at meet-
tionalities.                               ings of the Economic Commission for Europe
On May 31, 1948, the Bank put into effect  and its various committees and subcommittees
a pension plan for its permanent staff. The   and at meetings of the Economic Commission
plan contemplates a normal retirement age of   for Asia and the Far East. Similarly, it partici-
65. The Bank corntribution to the pension   pated in meetings of the committee established
fund is estimated to be about twice the con-   by the Economic and Social Council to con-
tributions of staff members.                sider the creation of an Economic Commission
Advisory Council                           for Latin America. In addition, the Bank has
participated in the Geneva and Havana con-
The Advisory Council of the Bank consists  ferences held for the purpose of drafting a
of the following ten members:               charter for the proposed International Trade
Field of    Organization. It has likewise been represented
Name               Interest    at various meetings of the Food and Agricul-
Arthur Salter, Chairman (U.K.)  General     ture Organization of the United Nations and
Pedro G. Beltran (Peru)       Agriculture   at the annual meeting of the Bank for Inter-
Edward E. Brown (U.S.)        Banking       national Settlements.
R. D. Harkness (Canada)       Industry        The number of international meetings held
Herbert Hoover (U.S.)         Commerce    at many different places throughout the world
Leon Jouhaux (France)         Labor         to consider matters of interest to the Bank is
Michal Kalecki (Poland)       Economics    very considerable and appears to be constantly
C. V. Raman (India)           Science      increasing. This has imposed a severe strain on
Lionel C. Robbins (U.K.)      Economics    the staff of the Bank and has resulted in some
S. K. A. Sze (China)          General       instances in an inability on the part of the
Nine of these councillors were selected by the   Bank, without interfering with the conduct of
Board of Governors at their Second Annual  its own work, to participate in meetings held
Meeting and the tenth by subsequent vote of  at far distances from Bank headquarters.
the Governors, completed on April 30, 1948.   Contacts at staff level between the Bank
The First Annual Meeting of the Advisory   and the United Nations and other international
Council was held at the principal office of the   organizations have proved of particular value
Bank from July 19 to July 23, 1948. A full  and are believed to constitute the most effec-
exchange of views took place with respect to  tive means for coordination of the Bank's ac-
the more important policies of the Bank. No   tivities with those of the other agencies. For
report was made.                            example, the Bank had a member of its Eco-
nomic Department in Geneva for a substantial
Relationship with Other International       part of the past year in order to make possible
Organizations                               effective liaison with the secretariat of the Eco-
Relations between the Bank and the Inter-   nomic Commission for Europe. It has also
national Monetary Fund remain close and fruit-  recently appointed a representative to maintain
[ 31 ]



liaison in Paris with the OEEC and ECA.   1948, the Board of Governors extended until
Much value has also been derived from many   July 31, 1948 the time within which Iran's
informal exchanges of views on matters of  increased subscription might be received by the
mutual interest between representatives of the   Bank. The subscription was received within
Bank and of the Food and Agriculture Organi-  the extended time limit and was accepted by
zation of the United Nations. Furthermore,  the Bank on June 28, 1948.
frequent trips have been made by Bank offi-  Through the admission of new members
cials to Lake Success to maintain contact with   and through increases in the capital subscrip-
the United Nations Secretariat, with a view   tions of Paraguay by $0.6 million, Egypt by
to exchanging information on a wide variety   $13.3 million and Iran by $9.6 million, the
of subjects and avoiding unnecessary duplica-   Bank's total subscribed capital increased from
tion or overlapping on such matters as research   $8,224.5 million as of August 10, 1947, to
activities, the collection of statistics and the   $8,336 million as of August 31,1948.
handling of administrative problems.
The Bank has also maintained excellent re-  Election of Additional Executive Directors
lations with the Organization of American    The election of a thirteenth Executive Di-
States. The President of the Bank, upon in-  rector pursuant to Resolution No. 10 adopted
vitation, addressed both the Inter-American   at the Inaugural Meeting of the Board of Gov-
Economic and Social Council and the Economic  ernors was completed on August 22, 1947.
Commission of the Ninth Conference of   At that election, Professor Costantino Bresciani-
American States.                           Turroni of Italy was elected as an additional
The agreement between the Bank and the   Executive Director, representing Columbia,
United Nations, which the Board of Governors   Denmark, Italy, Turkey and Venezuela, with
approved at the Second Annual Meeting, was   a total of 4,615 votes.
approved by the General Assembly of the      Pursuant to Resolution No. 23 adopted by
United Nations on November 15, 1947. Pur-  the Board of Governors at the Second Annual
suant to its terms, the agreement came into   Meeting, Mr. Stuart Gordon McFarlane of
effect on that date. It has thus far proved   Australia was elected as an additional Execu-
entirely satisfactory.                    tive Director as of January 30, 1948, rep-
resenting Australia, Lebanon and Syria, with
Increases in Membershipatolof280ves
a total of 2,860 votes.
Membership in the Bank has increased from  A regular election of elective Executive Di-
45 to 47 since the Second Annual Meeting of  rectors is required to be held at the Third An-
the Board of Governors, Finland and Austria  nual Meeting in September 1948 and forms
having become members on January 14, 1948   the subject of a separate report to the Board
and August 27, 1948, respectively.         of Governors.
Subscriptions and Voting Power             Financial Statements and Reports
of Member Countries                          Attached as Appendices A to G, inclusive,
In accordance with Resolution No. XIII  are a Balance Sheet showing the financial po-
adopted by the Board of Governors at the   sition of the Bank as of June 30, 1948, a
First Annual Meeting, Paraguay's subscription   Statement of Income and Expenses, an Opinion
to the capital stock of the Bank has been in-   of Independent Auditor, and a number of
creased from 8 shares to 14 shares.        schedules giving further details concerning the
At the Second Annual Meeting, the Board  assets and liabilities, capital and financial op-
of Governors authorized increases of 96 shares   erations of the Bank.
and 133 shares, respectively, in the subscrip-
tions of Iran and Egypt to the capital stock   Administrative Budget
of the Bank. Egypt's increased subscription was  There is attached as Appendix H the ad-
accepted by the Bank on June 10, 1948. By   ministrative budget of the Bank for the fiscal
vote without meeting completed on May 28,  year ending June 30, 1949. This budget has
[ 32 )



been prepared by the President and approved  Appenduix L-Office"r of the Bank as of
by the Executive Directors in accordance with   August 31, 1948
Section 19 of the By-Laws of the Bank.
The budget as presented represents the best  Additional Reports to Board of Governors
estimate of the management and Executive
Directors of the minimum  cost of effective  In addition to this Annual Report, the fol-
administration for the current fiscal year. It is  lowing repom are being subnitted for con-
not possible, however, to foresee all contin-  sideration of the Board of Governors at the
gencies which may arise. If, therefore, unan-   Third Annual Meeting:
ticipated conditions develop wvhich necessitate
changes in programs, appropriate adjustments  (1) Report on the Allocation of Net In-
in the budget will be required.                   come;
dppendices                                    (2) Report on Loan Regulations No. 2;
In addition to the appendices containing the
financial statements and reports and the ad-  (3)  Report on Draft Resolution proposed
ministrative budget of the Bank, to which ref-    by the Governor of the Bank for
erence has already been made, there are included  Poland;
in this report for the information of the Board  (4) Report on the Second Regular Election
of Governors the following appendices:            of Executive Directors;
Appendix I-Governors and Alternates as
of Auggust 31, 1948                      (5) Report on Convention on the Privileges
Appendix J-Voting Power and Subscrip-           and  Immunities of the Specialized
tions of Member Countries as of August       Agencies;
31, 1948
Appendix K-Exectisve Directors and Al-      (6) Report on Decisions of Executive Di-
ternates and Their Voting Power as of        rectors Interpreting Artidcles of Agree-
August 31, 1948                              ment.
( 33 ]



APPENDIX A
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1948
EXPRESSED IN UNTrED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to PitsancW  Statemets)
ASSETS
Gold (Valued at $35.00 per fine troy ounce) 8...............................                                           183,869
Due from Banks and Other Depositories
Member currency-United States ................................................$   36,154,429
Member currency-other than United States--Note A                                            114,793,349         150,947,778
Investment Securities
United States Government obligations
($418,508,000 face amount at cost) $........................................             417,964,779
Accrued interest and discount          .          .1,442,999                                                    419,407,778
Receivable from Members
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, demand notes-Note B
Payable in member currency-United States ............................   $   65,785,000
Payable in member currency-other than  United States-
Note A        ........................ ........................   802,961,483      $ 868,746,483
Calls on subscriptions to capital stock
Payment deferred-Note C             .          .4,915,000    873,661,483
Loans Outstanding
Total loans-Note D ................................................$   497,000,000
Less-Unused portion of commitment. .26,944,249
Principal outstanding-Note E ................................................$   470,055,751
Accrued interest and commitment charges-Note E                                                3,272,214         473,327,965
Miscellaneous Receivables and Other Assets .................................                                           198,187
Special Reserve Fund Assets-Note F
Due from Banks-member currency-United States ....................                                   409
Investment securities-United  States Government obligations
($2,184,000 face amount at cost) ............................................              2,178,496
Accrued loan commissions-Note E ............................................                    906,025            3,084,930
Staff Retirement Plan Assets-Note G ........................................                                           312,919
Total Assets   $................................................                                $1,921,124,909
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including $3,132,199
bond interest ................................................                        $    3,540,425
Bonds outstanding
Payable in United States Dollars-Note H
Ten Year 20%  Bonds, due July 15, 1957 ........................   S  100,000,000
Twenty-Five Year 3%  Bonds, due July 15, 1972                     150,000,000
Payable in Swiss Francs
2 2%o Swiss Franc Serial Bonds of 1948, due 1953-54
(Swiss Francs 17,000,000) .3,955,788                                                253,955,788      $  257,496,213
Special Reserve-Note F              ................................................                                 3,084,930
Staff Retirement Plan Reserve-Note  G .....................................                                            312,919
Capital
Capital stock
Authorized 100,000 shares of $100,000 par value each
Subscribed 82,860 shares ................................................  $8,286,000,000
Less-Uncalled portion of subscriptions-Note I . ..........    6,628,800,000        $1,657,200,000
Excess of income over expenses for twelve months ended June
30, 1948 ................................................   $    4,094,652
Less-Excess of expenses over income at June 30, 1947 ........          1,063,805           3,030,847        1,660,230,847
Total Liabilities, Reserves and Capital $................                                        1,921,124,909
[34 ]



APPENDIX B
Statement of Income and Expenses
For the Twelve Months Ended June 30,1948
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRENCY
(See Notes to Pinafau   Staements)
Income
Interest earned  on  investment securities .......................................................                 $  3,593,623
Income from loans:
Interest ...........                                                                                                9,917,304
Commitment  charges   .......................................................                                      2,136,027
Commissions  .......................................................                                               3,051,478
Other Income .......................................................                                                        5,546
$18,703,978
Deduct-Amount equivalent to commission appropriated to Special Reserve
(Note  F)  .......................................................                                                  3,051,478    $15,652,500
Expenses
Operating Expenses:
Salaries  and  wages ........................................................                                   $  2,238,580
Provision  for taxes  on  salaries ........................................................                           253,540
Travel    ........................................................                                                    447,981
Rents  and  utility  services ........................................................                                377,046
Communication  services .........................................................                                       88,956
Furniture  and  equipment ........................................................                                     89,365
Publications, printing  and  binding .........................................................                          87,641
Supplies ........................................................                                                       65,233
Contributions to staff benefits:
Staff Retirement Plan ........................................................                                    301,516
Other ........................................................                                                      10,471
Handling  and  storage  of gold ........................................................                                25,662
Miscellaneous expenses ........................................................                                        62,891
Total Operating  Expenses ........................................................                       $ 4,048,882
Interest  on   bonds ........................................................                                      6,232,963
Bond  registration  and  issuance  expenses ........................................................               1,276,003          11,557,848
Excess of Income Over Expenses                                                    .$ 4,094,652
[ 35



APPENDIX C
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1948
EXPRESSED IN UNITED STATES CURRPNCY
(See Notes to Financial Steaaments)
Serial
Date of      Maturities    Interest        Total         Disburse-        Unused
Loan          (Semi-       Rate           Loans           ments        Balance of
Agreement    Annually)    (Note F)         (Note D)        (Note E)      Commitmzent
Credit NMWon
(Guaranteed by
Republic of France) May 9,1947       1952-1977      3V4'9%      $250,000,000    $250,000,000
Kingdom
of tbe Netherlafis   August 7, 1947  1954-1972      3-4Yo       191,044,212     191,044,212
May 25, 1948     1953-1954      3-V4%         3,953,788       3,955,788
Kingdom
of Dentmrb         August 22, 1947   1953-1972      3-4%9        40,000,000      16,448,259    $23,551,741
Gernd-Duchy
of L9xembourg      August 28, 1947   1949-1972      3-Y4 e        12,000,000       8,607,492      3,392,508
$497,000,000    $470,055,751    $26944,249
[36]



APPENDIX D
Statement of Members' Currencies Held by the Bank
June 30, 1948
(See Notes to Financial Ssaemews)
Amount Expressed                                        Total
Unit of       In Member Currency        Rate of Exchange            Expressed in
Nmm   of member           Currency            (Restricted)              (Note A)                U. S. Dollars
Australia                   Pound                  111,693          $ =       0.310174          S   360,098
Belgium                     Franc                14,741,644         5 =      43.8275                 336,356
Bolivia                     Boliviano              516,200          $ =      42.00                    12,290
Brazil                      Cruzeiro            349,588,083         $ =      18.50                 18,896,653
Canada                      Dollar                 583,612          $         1.00                   583,612
Chile                       Peso                195,160,700         $ =      31.00                 6,295,506
China                       Yuan             12,948,953,640         $    12,000.00                  1,079,079
Colombia                    Peso                 11,020,972         $         1.74999               6,297,734
Costa Rica                  Colon                 2,021,338         $ =       5.615                  359,989
Cuba                        Peso                    63,000          $ =       1.00                    63,000
Czechoslovakia              Koruna               11,079,502         $ =      50.00                   221,590
Denmark                     Krone                  529,957          $         4.799007               110,431
Dominican Republic          Peso                     3,466          $ =       1.00                     3,466
Ecuador                     Sucre                 7,776,000         $        13.50                   576,000
Egypt                       Pound                  774,256          $         0.241955              3,200,000
El Salvador                 Colon                  449,529          S =       2.50                   179,812
Ethiopia                    Dollar                1,340,403         $         2.484472               539,512
Finland                     Markka              930,240,000         $ =    136.00                   6,840,000
France                      Franc               202,515,821         $ =    214.392                   944,605
Greece                      Drachma          22,500,000,000         $ =   5,000.00                  4,500,000
Guatemala                   Quetzal                357,351          $ =       1.00                   357,351
Honduras                    Lempira                  3,600          $ =       2.00                     1,800
Iceland                     Krona                 1,166,251         $ =       6.48885                179,732
India                       Rupee                 2,376,332         $ =       3.308519               718,246
Iran                        Rial                 57,121,200         $ =      32.25                  1,771,200
Iraq                        Dinar                    2,680          $ =       0.248139                10,800
Italy                       Lira              7.287,494,669         $ =    225.00                  32,388,865
Lebanon                     Pound                 1,775,075         $ =       2.19148                809,989
Luxembourg                  Franc                  693,437          5 =      43.8275                  15,822
Mexico                      Peso                 56,796,422         5 =       4.855                11,698,542
Netherlands                 Guilder               1,265,477         $ =       2.65285                477,025
Nicaragua                   Cordoba                720,000          $ =       5.00                   144,000
Norway                      Krone                  438,845          $ =       4.96278                 88,427
Panama                      Balboa                  36,000          $ =       1.00                    36,000
Paraguay                    Guarani                775,268          $ =       3.09                   250,896
Peru                        Sol                    197,516          S =       6.50                    30,387
Philippines                 Peso                  2,392,051         $ =       2.00                  1,196,026
Poland                      Zloty                22,092,852         $ =    100.00                    220,928
Syria                       Pound                   25,622          $ =       2.19148                 11,692
Turkey                      Lira                   213,753          $ =       2.799999                76,340
Union of South Afria        Pound                   44,403          S =       0.248139               178,944
United Kingdom              Pound                  565,256          $ =       0.248139             2,277,981
United States               Dollar               36,009,408         $ =                           36,009,408
Uruguay                     Peso                  2,868,471         $ =       1.519049              1,888,333
Venezuela                   Bolivar               4,571,686         $ =       3.35                  1,364,682
Yugoslavia                  Dinar               360,172,397         $ =      50.026668              7,199,608
Restricted Currency (Note K) .   ........ $150,802,757
Unrestricted Currency (All held in United States Dollars)  .  ...... -...  145,021
Total (Note J) .............................................$  .     150,947,778
[ 37 ]



APPENDIX E
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock
(See Notes to Pinancidal Statements)
Amounts Paid In
(Note A)
In Currency of
Number           Subscfipptio                                Member Otheor
of Shares           Price               United States         Than United
Member                 SsBbscribed        (Note L)                 Dollars            Stases Dollars
1 Australia                    2,000          5 200,000,000          S 4,000,000           5   360,131
2  Belgium                     2,250             225,000,000             4,500,000            2,344,422
3  Bolivia                        70               7,000,000              140,000                12,600
4  Brazil                      1,050             105,000,000             2,100,000           18,900,000
5  Canada                      3,250             325,000,000             6,500,000              585,000
6  Chile                         350              35,000,000              700,000             6,300,000
7  China                       6,000             600,000,000             9,000,000            1,080,000
8  Colombia                      350              35,000,000              700,000             6,300,000
9  Costa Rica                     20               2,000,000               40,000               360,000
10  Cuba                          350              35,000,000              700,000                63,000
11  Czechoslovakia              1,250             125,000,000             1,875,000              225,000
12  Denroark                      680              68,000,000             1,020,000              122,400
13  Dominican Republic             20               2,000,000               40,000                 3,600
14  Ecuador                        32               3,200,000               64,000               576,000
15  Egypt                         533              53,300,000             1,066,000            3,200,000
16  El Salvador                    10               1,000,000               20,000               180,000
17  Ethiopia                       30               3,000,000               60,000               540,000
18  Finland                       380              38,000,000              760,000             6,840,000
19  France                      5,250             525,000,000            10,500,000              979,719
20  Greece                        250              25,000,000              375,000             4,500,000
21  Guatemala                      20               2,000,000               40,000               360,000
22  Honduras                       10               1,000,000               20,000                 1,800
23  Iceland                        10               1,000,000               20,000               180,000
24  India                       4,000             400,000,000             8,000,000              720,383
25  Iran                          336              33,600,000              672,000              1,771,200
26  Iraq                           60               6,000,000              120,000                10,800
27  Italy                       1,800             180,000,000             3,600,000           32,400,000
28  Lebanon                        45               4,500,000               90,000               810,000
29  Luxembourg                    100              10,000,000              200,000                18,014
30  Mexico                        650              65,000,000             1,300,000           11,700,000
31  Netherlands                 2,750             275,000,000             5,500,000              496,098
32  Nicaragua                       8                800,000                16,000               144,000
33  Norway                        500              50,000,000             1,000,000               90,000
34  Panama                          2                200,000                 4,000                36,000
35  Paraguay                       14               1,400,000               28,000               252,000
36  Peru                          175              17,500,000              350,000                31,500
37  Philippines                   150              15,000,000              300,000             1,200,000
38  Poland                      1,250             125,000,000             1,875,000              225,000
39  Syria                          65               6,500,000              130,000                11,700
40  Turkey                        430              43,000,000              860,000                77,400
41  Union of South Africa        1,000            100,000,000             2,000,000              180,000
42  United Kingdom              13,000          1,300,000,000            26,000,000            2,375,750
43  United States              31,750           3,175,000,000           569,215,000
44  Uruguay                       105              10,500,000              210,000              1,890,000
45  Venezuela                     105              10,500,000              210,000              1,365,000
46  Yugoslavia                    400              40,000,000              600,000             7,200,000
82,860         $8,286,000,000          $666,520,000          $117,018,517
[ 38 ]



APPENDIX E
and Voting Power of Members-June 30,1948
(See Notes to Fsnancid Satements)
Amounts Paid In
(Note A)
Non-lnterest-Bearing,                Amounts Pay-             Subject to Call
Non-Negotiable                    ment of Whch             to Meet Obliga-                    Number
Demand Notes                      is Postponed              tions of Bank                        of
(Notes B and D)                     (Note C)                  (Note I)                         Votes
S 35,639,869                    $      -                  $ 160,000,000                       2,250   1
38,155,578                           -                     180,000,000                      2,500   2
1,247,400                           -                       5,600,000                        320   3
_                             _                      84,000,000                      1,300   4
57,915,000                           -                     260,000,000                      3,500   5
_                             _                      28,000,000                       600   6
106,920,000                     3,000,000                   480,000,000                      6,250   7
_                             -                      28,000,000                        600   8
_                             -                       1,600,000                        270   9
6,237,000                           -                      28,000,000                        600  10
22,275,000                       625,000                   100,000,000                      1,500  11
12,117,600                      340,000                     54,400,000                        930  12
356,400                           -                       1,600,000                        270  13
_                             _                       2,560,000                        282  14
6,394,000                           _                      42,640,000                        783  15
-                             -                        800,000                        260  16
-  -                   2,400,000                        280  17
-                             -                      30,400,000                        630  18
93,520,281                           -                     420,000,000                      5,500  19
-                        125,000                    20,000,000                         500  20
-                             -                       1,600,000                        270  21
178,200                                                     800,000                        260  22
-                -                      ~~~~~~~~~~~800,000               260  2 3
71,279,617                           -                     320,000,000                      4,250  24
4,276,800                           -                      26,880,000                        586  25
1,069,200                           -                       4,800,000                        310  26
_                             -                     144,000,000                      2,050  27
-                             -                       3,600,000                       295  28
1,781,986                           -                       8,000,000                        350  29
-                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~52,000,000             900  3 0
49,003,902                           -                     220,000,000                      3,000  31
_                             -                        640,000                         258  32
8,910,000                           _                      40,000,000                        750  33
-                             -                        160,000                         252  34
-                             -                       1,120,000                        264  35
3,118,500                           -                      14,000,000                        425  36
1,500,000                           -                      12,04000                         400  37
22,275,000                       625,000                   100,000,000                       1,500  38
1,158,300                           -                       5,200,000                        315  39
7,662,600                           -                      34,400,000                        680  40
17,820,000                           -                      80,000,000                      1,250  41
231,624,250                           -                   1,040,000,000                     13,250  42
65,785,000                           -                   2,540,000,000                     32,000  43
t  -                          -                       8,400,000                        355  44
525,000                           -                       8,400,000                        355  45
-                        200,000                     32,000,000                        650  46
$868,746,483                    $4,915,000                $6,628,800,000                     94,360
[ 39 ]



APPENDIX P
Notes to Financial Statements
NOTE A                                          return to such member within a reasonable
Amounts in currencies other than United      time an amount of that member's currency
States dollars have been translated into United  equal to the increase in the value of the
States dollars at the rates recognized in mak-  amount of such currency described in (a)
ing capital payments by member countries. In    above.
the cases of 37 members these rates are the       "(c) The provisions of the preceding para-
established par values under the International  graphs may be waived by the Bank when
Monetary Fund Agreement. In the cases of nine   a uniform proportionate change in the par
members (Brazil,* China, Finland, France,       values of the currencies of all its members
Greece, Italy, Poland, Uruguay and Yugo-        is made by the International Monetary Fund."
slavia), the par values of their currencies had
not been so established at June 30, 1948.     NOTE B
No representation is made that any of such   Demand notes delivered to the Bank in sub-
currencies is convertible into any other of such   stitution for currency of member, in accord-
currencies at any rate or rates.              ance with Article V, Section 12.
Article II, Section 9, of the Bank's Articles   NOTE C
of Agreement contains the following provi-
sions with regard to the maintenance of the     Payments postponed until June 25, 1951,
value of certain currency holdings of the Bank:   in accordance with the provisions of Article
II, Section 8(a) (i). These amounts are pay-
"(a) Whenever (i) the par value of a   able in gold or United States dollars.
member's currency is reduced, or (0i) the
foreign exchange value of a member's cur-   NOTE D
rency has, in the opinion of the Bank,       In addition to the $497,000,000 of loans
depreciated to a significant extent within   effective as of June 30, 1948, the Bank on
the member's territories, the member shall   March 25, 1948 entered into a loan agreement
pay to the Bank within a reasonable time   with Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n
an additional amount of its own currency   and Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A., pro-
sufficient to maintain the value, as of the   viding for a loan in the amount of $13,500,000,
time of initial subscription, of the amount   or the equivalent thereof in other currencies. Al-
of the currency of such member which is  so on March 25, 1948 the Bank entered into a
held by the Bank and derived from  cur-  loan agreement with Corporaci6n de Fomento
rency originally paid in to the Bank by the   de la Producci6n, providing for a loan in the
member under Article II, Section 7(i), from    amount of $2,500,000, or the equivalent dtere-
currency referred to in Article IV, Section   of in other currencies. These agreements will
2(b), or from any additional currency fur-   become effective after the Bank has received
nished under the provisions of the present   evidence that the Government of Chile has
paragraph, and which has not been repur-   guaranteed these loans, together with certain
chased by the member for gold or for the   other certificates and documents, and the Bank
currency of any member which is acceptable   has notified the borrower and the guarantor of
to the Bany.                               its acceptance of such evidence.
"(b) Whenever the par value of a mem-   NOTE E
ber's currency is increased, the Bank shall  The principal outstanding, accrued interest
'The parity rate of Brazil has since been approved, o    and commitment charges, and accrued loan
July 14, 1948, by the International Monetary Fund.  commissions are payable in Uaited States dol-
[ 40 ]



lars except the following amounts for which         Currency Payable
the dollar equivalent is shown:                Swiss Francs  Belgian Francs    Total
Principal Outstanding ..............................   $3,955,788  $2,005,835  $5,961,623
Accrued Interest and Commitment Charges ..........   10,567       21,764          32,331
Accrued Loan Commissions ..............................  3,251     6,697           9,948
Totals ..............................$ 3,969,606          $2,034,296      $6,003,902
NOTE F                                        NOTE J
The amount of commissions received by the     The currencies of the several members and
Bank on loans made or guaranteed by it is  the notes substituted for any part of such cur-
required under Article IV, Section 6, to be set   rencies are ihed on depart of signated
aside as a special reserve to be kept available  rencies are held on deposit with designated
for meeting obligations of the Bank created by   depositories in the territories of the respective
borrowing or guaranteeing loans. On all loans   members.
outstanding at June 30, 1948, the rate of com-   NOTE K
mission is 1 % per annum.
NOTE G                                          These currencies are derived from the 18%
Assets segregated and held in trust for the   of the subscriptions to the capital stock of the
Staff Retirement Plan which became effective   Bank which is payable in the currencies of the
on May 31, 1948. The Plan provides for re-  respective members. Such 18% may be loaned
tirement, total disability and death benefits to   by the Bank, and funds received by the Bank
participating members of the Bank's staff. Par-   on account of principal of loans made by the
ticipants are required to contribute to the Plan   Bank out of such currencies may be exchanged
amounts equal to 6 percent of their regular   for other currencies or reloaned, only with
net remuneration; the remainder of the cost  the approval in each case of the member whose
of operating the Plan is to be borne by the   currency is involved; provided, however, that,
Bank. According to actuarial computations, the   if necessary, after the Bank's subscribed capital
Bank's share will be approximately two-thirds   is entirely called, such currencies may, without
of the cost of operation of the Plan, exclusive   restriction by the members whose currencies
of administrative expenses which are also to   reofred, be use  or    wh ose  cur-
be borne by the Bank. The amount of $301,516   are offered, be used or exchanged for the cur-
contributed by the Bank up to June 30, 1948,   rences required to meet contractual payments
consisted of $21,610 current service contribu-   of interest, other charges or amortization on
tions for the month of June 1948, and $279,-  the Bank's own borrowings or to meet the
906 being the estimated amount of the Bank's   Bank's liabilities with respect to contractual
contribution with respect to services prior to   payments on loans guaranteed by it. The United
the inception of the Plan.                    States has approved the use by the Bank in
NOTE H                                        the making of loans of such 18%  of the sub-
As a sinking fund for the Twenty-Five Year   scription of the United States to the capital
Bonds, the Bank has agreed to purchase and   stock of the Bank, and Belgium similarly has
retire or redeem bonds of said issue commenc-   approved the use of the Belgian Franc equiva-
ing July 15, 1958, in varying amounts cal-  lent of $2,000,000, which amount has already
culated to retire 50%  of the total issue by   been disbursed. (Article IV, Section 2(a) and
maturity.                                     (b).)
NOTE I
Subject to call by the Bank only when re-
quired to meet the obligations of the Bank      In terms of United States dollars of the
created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.   weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
[ 41 ]



APPENDIX G
Opinion of Independent Auditor
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO.
AMERICAN SECURITY BUILDING
WASHINGTON 5, D. C.
July 27, 1948
To INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT,
Washington, D. C.
We have examined the financial statements listed below of Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30,
1948. Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and included such tests of the accounting records
and other supporting evidence and such other procedures as we con-
sidered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, such financial statements, with the notes thereto,
present fairly the position of the Bank at June 30, 1948, expressed in
United States currency, and the results of its operations for the twelve
months then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO.
Financial Statements
Covered by the Foregoing Opinion
Balance Sheet-June 30, 1948                         APPENDIX A
Statement of Income and Expenses for the twelve
months ended June 30, 1948                      APPENDIX B
Statement of Loans-June 30, 1948                    APPENDIX C
Statement of Members' Currencies held by the
Bank-June 30, 1948                             APPENDIX D
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock
and Voting Power of Members-June 30, 1948    APPENDIX E
Notes to Financial Statements                       APPENDIX F
[ 42 ]



APPENDIX H
Administrative Budget
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1949
There is outlined below the Administrative Budget for the Fiscal Year
ending June 30, 1949, as prepared by the President and approved by
the Executive Directors in accordance with Section 19 of the By-Laws.
For purposes of comparison there is also outlined below the expenses
incurred during the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 1948.
1947-1948    1948-1949
Expenses     Budget
Personal Services ........................... $2,200,050    $2,804,424
Travel .256,690   284,600
Rent, Utility Service, and Building
Alterations .368,932................... . 368,932  314,800
Supplies and Equipment .167,778                      119,500
Books and Printing .87,555                            95,800
Communication Service ...........................84,197  105,000
Contribution to Staff Benefits .311,988              297,500
Other Expenses .66,876.................... . 66,876   17,100
Contingencies ............... ............           100,000
Total Administrative Expenses .........$ 3,544,066    $4,138,724
Office of Executive Directors ..................  328,814  449,800
Annual Meeting, Board of Governors
and Advisory Council ....................  176,002  88,000
Total Expenses .........................$ $4,048,882    $4,676,524
In submitting the 1947-1948 Administrative Budget it was estimated
that expenditures, excluding bond registration and issuance expense,
would aggregate $4,361,000. Expenses for this period as shown above
amounted to $4,048,882. Bond registration and issuance costs estimated
at $3,987,000, amounted to $1,276,003.
No estimate has been made of bond registration and issuance expenditures
for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 1949, since the amount of bonds
which may be issued by the Bank during such year is not known. It has
been estimated, however, that such expenditures will amount to $725,000
for each $100 million of bonds which the Bank may issue.
F 43 ]



APPENDIX I
Governors and Alternates
As of August 31, 1948
COUNTRY                         GOVERNOR                         ALTERNATE
AUSTRALIA                          J. B. Chifley                       N. J. 0. Makin
AUSTRIA (became member on Auguat 27, 1948)
BELGIUM                            Gaston Eyskens                      Maurice Frere
BOLIVIA                            Rene Ballivian Calderon             Jaime Gutierrez Guerra
BRAZIL                             Francisco Alves dos Santos-Filho    Edgard de Mello
CANADA                             D. C. Abbott                        R. B. Bryce
CHILE                              Arturo Maschke                      Fernando Illanes
CHINA                              Wang Yun-Wu                         T. L. Soong
COLOMBIA                           Emilio Toro                         Diego Mejia
COSTA RICA                         Julio Pena                          Angel Coronas-Guardia
CUBA                               Guillermo Belt                      Miguel A. Riva
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                     Leopold Chmela                      Bohumil Sucharda
DENMARK                            Carl Valdemar Bramsnaes             Hakon Jespersen
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                 Jesus Maria Troncoso                Luis Julian Perez
ECUADOR                            Augusto Dillon                      Pedro L. Nunez
EGYPT                              Ahmed Zaki Bey Saad
EL SALVADOR                        Catalino Herrera                    Manuel Melendez-Valle
ETHIOPIA                           George A. Blowers
FINLAND                            Sakari Tuomioja                     Ralf Torngren
FRANCE                             Rene Mayer                          Pierre Mendes-France
GREECE                             Athanase Sbarounis                  Grigorios Zarifopoulos
GUATEMALA                          Manuel Noriega Morales              Leonidas Acevedo
HONDURAS                           Julian R. Caceres                   Jorge Fidel Duron
ICELAND                            Jon Arnason                         Thor Thors
INDIA                              Sir Chintaman Deshmukh              N. Sundaresan
IRAN                               A. H. Ebtehaj                       Mocharraf Naficy
IRAQ                               Saifullah Khandan                   Munim Gailani
ITALY                              Donato Menichella                   Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza
LEBANON                            Charles Malik                       George Hakim
LUXEMBOURG                         Pierre Dupong                       Hugues Le Gallais
MEXICO                             Antonio Espinosa de los Monteros    Luciano Wiechers
NETHERLANDS                        P. Lieftinck                        M. W. Holtrop
NICARAGUA                          J. Jesus Sanchez Roiz               Alejandro Montiel Arguello
NORWAY                             Gunnar Jahn                         Ole Colbjoernsen
PANAMA                             Octavio Vallarino                   Roberto Heurtematte
PARAGUAY                           Juan Plate                          Ruben Benitez
PERU                               Carlos Montero Bernales             Jose Barreda Moller
PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC                Joaquin M. Elizalde                 Narciso Ramos
POLAND                             Konstanty Dabrowski                 Janusz Zoltowski
SYRIA                              Faiz El-Khouri                      Hunsi A. Sawwaf
TURKEY                             Nurullah Esat Sumer                 Nahit Alpar
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA              M. H. de Kock                       J. E. Holloway
UNITED KINGDOM                     Sir Stafford Cripps                 Sir Gordon Munro
UNITED STATES                      John W. Snyder                      William L. Clayton
URUGUAY                            Carlos Quijano                      Nilo Berchesi
VENEZUELA                          Carlos A. DAscoli                   Hector Santaella
YUGOSLAVIA                         Stane Krasovec                      Radomir Arandjelovic
[ 44 ]



 st' ]
1ua:) lad  o00o  uEuI  ssa-j
,a xlpuaddV ul tloT4S 'St'61  o0C aunf Jo se asolp Ttosj 'aaopnipa 'Taglp Xlpuaddv
SIMI U! UMOTjS SaJOA JO jloi pue suo!nd!usqns 3o Irloi aRj  *diUlsa9Waw o3 ppa33iup  seMA tplsfny  'St61 'Z IsnnV  uO0
,0 001                      09fSf'8                       00001                       011 56                        ..                                                                    I.
RV                          0 05                          89                          059                           ..........I............................................ e!Aulsoln 
CL                          S01                         LC                           55                           .lanzaunA
60SC OOoc 1 59Cc OSc1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .... .. ...... . ..... ...... . ...... ........ ..  u opc                                                                   l?p   'l
605'1                       0 SZI'                        SSL I0'.~3 OOP    lq   [M!U3,ii
7 97 z5z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................................ ................ ------ ------------ PIuu d
610S                        O8- Z 85           Z .          ...           .          ........... ooo..... ------------------- nee
OC- o sez 91-C, O00',C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................................... ...................  wop---- - -------  spaluelJal
68L                         O5OO'                         5                           06'C1  O'.PT
OZl             -           0-001                           CI    ~,c                                0       5      ...................................... ...................v.  ------ ----- umoq!ufl
Z~,                  Oy~                          IL'                         089.AaNmnhT
S0'              S            ,                           Cv               t            IC             ,             ......................................... ...........................   - --  -    ---    -   eAS
SI                          0-gOI                        ,cc                          005'.nicqndsc                                                                                      3uTOc1JeJ
0 9 c                c         L             -            9k              9       8 5                  *            ----...........................................  -------------------------d
ZO'             0                 0Z' P907 .------.                                                                                                                              ....... --S--- - -A-tIft-S-d
q           0 0       1                                 9z                                          -              ......................................................  - m------->-----------   uela
09                          00                           6O                           0i5SL            -           Ss*   .. .. .....................................AM                               N
LO 01 EZ 09c- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................................................... --------------------rpa'Teg 1T
To.                  S~~'                         9z B* 
OC -                      O Zz                          98                          oocz                          .......I................................. ..........    PE-------- -------zat3N
TO'                         O'                            56'                        0S0                           ........................................................................ 0enTa
9t1     0O T9    T6'                                                                 OW                                                                                        . .............. Ibal
LOS'                        O9               S            c8                          OOI .................................................oq.......
zv 0 9'C                                   c        g         .           0           9 *             -           --- .............................................................    u------eqnl
o0']'                       0'009                         LV59                        OSZ'. 9.*--------------------------------------------------------.eTPUI
10'                         0'1                          LC                           09. .T...                                                                   ..l1
10'                         0'1                           1'                         091               .            ...................................................................-svJnpuoH
ZO1           0              -50o'Z'O                                                                               ............................................07  ................... - -   ---ine
o80                         O,9                           Ct                         cOc             *           --------- .........................................I ----------------- -- ev!1o
O'9                         O'Zg               0           L'C                        O 9.0057 ............................--.----.---.-------.'-.'---'--'''-'--.aU-ejA
91"                        0S0                           99'                         00                .            ...................................................                     -----. - PUeU!]
O8Z OOOZ tZ 05Zs7 ................~~~~~~~~~~........ .................-------------''---''leSt .............................................                  ?T   ol 3
IO'                         0'                           6z'                         0l ' l                                               .r4o
10'                         0'1                          1'                          091.X ...                                                          ....... .       .        .     OPECAIES la
59'                                                       ZS'                         CSL....
10'                         07Z                           5Z'                         OLZE..........................iTJqtid2d   UEDU !WTT O0j
IS'                         0,89                         86'                          06.[lffQ
ZO'                         07z                           sr                          OLZ.D~  ~O
01                         0009                          99                         00E9......................................-!w                                                                  loJ
OZ'                         0'009                         L9'9                        00Z9........................................v lqD
06                         O'Q                          89                         009                            .......................................    lT:
09'                         0'09                          6L'                         0~                             ...................I..................e!PsnlV
O5"Z                       0'00E                          L7Z                        0E'E
Jo                    sao!y                             Jo                           JO                                                      est!snXOj so qwaw
$UOZSB9d               Si) 1USOWa                         U:49                        qtn
suoplgdpsqng                                         .SbdtOd 25!$OA
E8P6 'If $Sfl?JV f o SV
sapsunoojiaqwiaja fo suoydzntjsqng puv natojT OuYoA
 xiciNaaav



APPENDIX K
Executive Directors and Alternates and
their Voting Power as of August 31, 1948
DIRECTORS         ALTERNATES          CASTING VOTES OF               VOTES BY         TOTAL
APPOINTED                                                   COUNTRY          VOTES
Eugene R. Black        John S. Hooker          United States                 32,000          32,000
Sir Gordon Munro                               United Kingdom                13,250          13,250
Yuen-Ting Shen         Kuo-Hwa Yu              China                          6,250           6,250
Roger Hoppenot         Emmanuel Lamy           France                         5,500           5,500
N. Sundaresan          B. K Madan              India                          4,250           4,250
ELECTED
J. W. Beyen            W. Koster               Netherlands                    3,000           4,250
(Netherlands)          (Netherlands)           Union of South Africa          1,250 J
Belgium                       2,500
Franz De Voghel        Thomas Basyn            Norway                          750 l3860
(Belgium)              (Belgium)               Luxembourg                      350            3
Iceland                         260j
Brazil                        1,300
Chile                           600
Philippine Republic             400
Victor Moller          Fernando Illanes        Bolivia                         320            3670
(Chile)                (Chile)                 Costa Rica                      270
Guatemala                       270
Paraguay                        258
Panama                          252
Czechoslovakia                1,500
Leon Baranski          Mihailo Kolovic         Poland                         1,500           3,650
(Poland)               (Yugoslavia)            Yugoslavia                      650J
Mexico                          900 
Cuba                            600
Peru                            425
Luis Machado           Joaquin Meyer           Uruguay                         355
(Cuba)                 (Cuba)                  Ecuador                         282            3,610
Dominican Republic              270
El Salvador                     260
Honduras                        260
Nicaragua                       258
Graham F. Towers       J. F Parkinson          Canada                         3,500            3,500
(Canada)               (Canada)
Egypt                           6501
K  Varvaressos         F. Noury-Esfandiary     Greece                          500.
(Greece)               (Iran)                  Iran                            490            2,230
Iraq                            310l
Ethiopia                        280)
Giorda- i    Italy                         2,0501
Costantino Bresciani-    Francesco Giordani    Denmark                         930
Turroni              (Italy)                 Turkey                          680            4,615
(Italy)                                        Colombia                        600
Venezuela                       355 -
S. G. McFarlane        Roland Wilson           Australia                     2,250
(Australia)            (Australia)             Syria                           315            2,860
Lebanon                         295 J
[ 46 ]



APPENDIX K
Since the date of the Second Annual Report, the following changes have taken place
in the membership of the Executive Directors and Alternates:
Executive Directors
Resigned                          Appointed or Elected               Date of Appointment
or Election
Costantino Bresciani-Turroni           August 23, 1947
(Italy)
Pierre Mendes-France (France)          Roger Hoppenot (France)                 October 28, 1947
S. G. McFarlane (Australia)            January 30, 1948
Alternates
Resigned                             Appointed                       Date of Appointment
Francesco Giordani (Italy)             September 9, 1947
Y. L. Chang (China)*                   Kuo-Hwa Yu (China)                      December 1, 1947
Stefan Michalski (Poland)*             Mihailo Kolovic (Yugoslaavia)           February 11, 1948
Maurice H. Parsons (U. K.)             Frank Figgures (U. K.)                  February 11, 1948
Roland Wilson (Australia)              February 27, 1948
Frank Figgures (U. K.)
Guy de Carmoy (France)                 Emmanuel Lamy (France)                  July 6, 1948
Temporary.
There has been no change in the composition of Standing Committees of the Executive
Directors during the year.
[ 47 ]



APPENDIX L
Officers of the Bank
As of August 31, 1948
President .....................                                      John J. McCloy
Vice President .....................                               Robert L. Garner
General Counsel .....................                           Chester A. McLain
Secretary .....................                                      M. M. Mendels
Treasurer .....................                                  D. Crena de Iongh
Loan  Director .....................                            William  A. B. Iliff
Economic Director .....................                             Leonard  B. Rist
Director of Marketing .....................                            E. F. Dunstan
Director of Public Relations .....................                      Drew  Dudley
Director of Administration .....................                Chauncey G. Parker
Assistant to the Vice President .....................            Richard H. Demuth
[48]



